ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9171	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, article 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads: "The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sets out the day and hour of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a draft agenda, at least seven days before the day for which the session is called. "Station 2: "Extremely, notice of the time of session and agenda can be delivered within a short period, with the National Assembly president obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. "Station 3: "The President of the National Assembly may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, if a number of amendments are submitted to the proposed agenda of the session, which the Government and the committees in charge cannot consider before the session begins, which shall be notified in good time by the MPs. "Article 4: "In the case referred to in the preceding position, the deadline for the submission of amendments set out in this Rules of Procedure shall not be moved. "We, ladies and gentlemen, I guess it's nothing new to you, we all got two papers, I can't call it any other way, signed by Oliver Dulic, titled by the assembly – I call the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will be held after the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, then the agenda. Then, another piece of paper that writes - I call on the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will be held after the end of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, also with the proposed agenda. Mr. Dulic, this is something unheard of and unseen in this House. The violations of the Rules of Procedure have been, but the defamation of the people's MPs and this House is inadmissible in this way. I suggest you withdraw these non-bulful papers that you delivered to us immediately and schedule the session in accordance with Article 84. Here, I strongly advise you, if you can't judge when this session will be completed to schedule the next session, use attitude 3, so delay if you don't get a good estimate, but in this way to play with the MPs, this is unprecedented. How can we, Mr. Dulliche, follow the deadlines for the amendment now? Did we get these papers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, seven days before the beginning of the session, did we get them within a short period of time, not less than five days before the beginning of the session? Is there anyone who can answer these questions? Mr. Dulic, I understand that you are in a very insinuating position, I understand and nervousness in the ruling coalition, I understand and remember, all Serbian citizens remember, that you promised to respect the Constitution. I don't understand why it's not until the third session that you're scheduled for constitutional law, why the second one has something completely different. I don't understand how you're having an unserious debate about constitutional law, Mr. Dulic, because in every normal state at least ten days would be discussed, and you're giving us this kind of notice that absolutely means nothing, which is completely contrary to our rules of procedure. I suggest you once again, Mr. Dulic, withdraw these papers, schedule a session as God commands, or as the Rules of Procedure says, so let's do it. If you think you can play with the MPs so you can go on state television and say how much this Parliament's working day costs, and the MPs, God, speak according to the Rules of Procedure, you've made a terrible mistake, we'll talk about both the Rules of Procedure and the government's proposals. With such a statement on state television and all this work you're doing, Mr. Dulic, you're destroying this House's reputation. I'm no longer sure that's an accident, I thought at first you're a young man, you haven't met the Rules of Procedure, but if you don't have someone who can read you this clear article in 84, then you really have some other problems. So, my proposal, a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group - withdraw these two papers and call a session in accordance with Article 84. The Rules of Procedure, the second, and the third when the time comes for the third session. You could have ordered us a fourth, after the fourth, etc. Thank you. Please report me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9172	According to the Rules of Procedure, MPplatmir Stević appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9173	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, individual authorities, institutions and individuals are making the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija more difficult... (President: I apologize, which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) I refer to the article. 225 and 226. Individuals give themselves the right, though full of mouths about allegedly caring for Kosovo and Metohija, to interrupt classes in Serbian these days for about 10,000 students in Kosovo and Metohija. What's this about? Although the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation has been passed, although the funds of 150m dinars for material costs for the functioning of primary and secondary education in Kosovo and Metohija, in 50 schools in the central part of the Kosmeta in the Moravi area today, not after 15 days, there is no heating. I think it's inadmissible and it's incomprehensible. I ask you, Mr. President of the Assembly, that, in accordance with your powers, you take action and do everything you can to keep teaching in Serbian in the area of Kosovo and Metohija uninterrupted. It is about 30 schools in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, of which 20 primary schools and 10 secondary schools. In secondary schools, 2,200 students attend the central part of Kosovo and Metohija and 3,600 elementary schools. As far as the Moravia area is concerned, there are 25 schools, of which seven high school students, with 1,479 students, and 18 primary students, with 3,025 students. This is inadmissible for the SPS, and I want to tell you, in these difficult conditions, when it was the most difficult for the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, it is not the state and this government that prevented teaching in the Serbian language and education from taking place under the programme of the Republic of Serbia; it is done by parents, their students, children, teachers and teachers. And who is now sending signals in this situation, in this uncertainty of our destiny in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, where is the danger of stopping teaching? There's one more thing I want to tell you, these directors and the entire staff have preserved the education system. These days, the temporary institutions are offering us, and the principals are offering fuel for schools. The directors keep refusing because they wait for their queen, for their country to ensure that children go to school like all other children. I ask you once again, Mr. President, to do everything during the day and inform the Assembly of these same measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9174	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Milorad Buh, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask a parliamentary question to the government and to the war crimes prosecutor's office and ask whether proceedings were initiated against Darko Milinovic, the current vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, who participated in war crimes in Gospić in 1991, together with Mirko Norac and Tihomir Oreskovic. In 1991, during the wartime, Serbs who stayed in Gospić were taken, harassed and killed; these Serbs who expressed loyalty to the Croatian authorities and those who wanted to stay in Croatia live and work in Croatia. A total of about a hundred Serbs were then killed. Dogid Darko Milinovic was a doctor and chief of emergency in Gospić and participated in the transportation of Serbs killed in the Interior Secretariat. I'm asking the D.A. if a procedure has been initiated, and if it isn't, I'm asking why it wasn't done, given that as a doctor and as chief of emergency, he was transporting innocent and murdered Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9176	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9177	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of the provisions of article 84. Mr. President, indeed, the way we were delivered material for the two next sessions is the curiosity of its kind. I do not know by which provision of the Rules of Procedure you sent us material for the second session that will end immediately after the first and third one that will end after the second. By that logic, you could have scheduled ten sessions, but that's not meant for the Rules of Procedure anywhere. I really ask you to answer why you have violated the Rules of Procedure, which are reasons for urgency, because such a way of acting devalues Parliament's work. Otherwise, so far, we have a dozen things that put us in a very unpleasant position, and that is why others, especially those who are not well-intentioned, such as the BiH presidency president, simply share lessons, share pucks, and we are having an embarrassment, shame and humiliation. We have a case that for days and months the story of whether Serbia will initial, not sign but initial, an association and stabilisation agreement as some kind of pre-contract. When you have an unfair client, insecure, irresponsible, then you make a pre-contract first. That's the position Serbia is in. These are things that don't depend on you. It depends on you matters relating to the work of Parliament, respect for the Constitution, respect for the constitutional law and respect for the Rules of Procedure. It's a long time of agony whether there will be choices, what choices, when, by what law. No one answers, except we have controversy in the media. Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, a set of judicial laws, and we finally get this material where we don't even know the reasons for this kind of treatment. Why isn't that put in one session and one agenda? What does that mean when it does? Like in that series, Gekna hasn't died yet, and when she does, we don't know. Mr. President, I ask you to answer this question and to take Parliament's work seriously, because that's not the way to schedule sessions. I repeat, you have violated the provisions of article 84 and I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9178	I will give you the answer, as I will to the Messenger of the people, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Thank you for pointing out the failure in the way the session is scheduled. What was agreed at the meeting of the heads of parliament's groups is to schedule two sessions, one where the debate on the judges of the Constitutional Court and another session, which was urgent due to the deadlines that we have for the ratification of the visa waiver agreement with the European Union and the readmission agreement. To vote on it by 1 November, by the time we had the deadline, it was agreed to schedule two sessions, one after the other. What was a small one was that, as you explained, we did not specify a deadline that we would later postpone. Now I'm going to schedule a new session the way it's done business, and that's the only way we're going to get past this problem, where there's going to be clear dates when these sessions start, and if we don't finish the previous session then we're going to move those dates. I suggest that it be a way out of this. You're right, and I think it's clear to you that one good intention is for the Assembly to come to discuss everything that's important to discuss in the coming period. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported. (Dragan Todorovic, from place: I give up. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: Only that the Parliament in the day of voting declares your injury to the Rules of Procedure. I agree. In voting day, the assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9179	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which reads as follows: "In the Insurance Act in Article 3(1) after the word 'activity', instead of the point, the words 'as well as the branch of a foreign insurance company which has been authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity' shall be stuck. "Our amendment is to delete Article 1 because it is contrary to the Business Society Act. This article provides for the possibility for a branch of a foreign insurance company, with the permission of a competent authority, or the National Bank of Serbia, to carry out the work of insurance. The application is related to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, with a five-year deadline for coordination. The Business Society Act Article 3. paragraph 2 relating to the branch reads: "The branch is part of a company that has no legal personality. The branch shall have a place of business and representatives, and shall carry out business with third parties on behalf of and on behalf of the company. "There, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians, Serbian citizens, are opening up the possibility for foreign insurance companies to operate in Serbia's territory without any financial risk. What if the branches have a problem with the bond, get into financial problems, who will be responsible when their parent companies are registered in other countries under some of their corporate laws? You also have this in the Law on Foreign Trade, which defined that the branch is a legally dependent organisational part of the founder, who is performing permanently in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for which the founder is registered in the country of establishment. You are all the time just calling for it to be a request from the World Trade Organisation, and that this law will only be applied after five years of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to that organisation. Until then, you're building a vacuum where you can't even apply to the rules of the World Trade Organisation. What is the time limit of five years when you are in such a hurry in the EU and Euro-Atlantic organisations? The background of the whole story is obviously the privatisation of our insurance companies by foreign companies, through their branches in Serbia. Our insurance companies have some assets and capital. I ask you, which assets and capital, according to the Business Society Act, have the branches of foreign insurance companies in Serbia reported? Do you know, Mr. Minister, why the majority of our citizens who have a life insurance policy have done it directly abroad, despite the fact that these insurance companies have their own branches in Serbia? Because in these countries they can be compensated for any problems that arise in Serbia. These branches do not have capital in proportion to the number of committees they have. To be clear, we are not in favour of our citizens being provided abroad, but that our insurance companies are firmly placed on their feet, that privatisation is carried out at no more than 49%, and that the state manages with 51% of insurance companies, that the minister does not determine the commission, the amount of compensation, to precisely specify what the cost of privatisation is. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that there is a healthy competition on the market, but if we want to be a state that holds up to itself we must prevent all economic branches, and in this case also in insurance, privatisation by companies that come from countries that advocate further deployment of Serbia and which have committed and supported genocide over the Serb people. First of all, I think of Croatia, which occupied and destroyed the Republika Srpska Krajina, committed genocide against Serbs and, of course, Slovenia, which supports Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The problem is that Serbia's government has to date had no clear strategy in any area of economy or insurance. When we discussed the amendments and additions to this law, I, Mr. Minister, cited an example of Austria, which has an extremely decorated area, because insurance companies invest money from premiums in non-risk funds. In Serbia, the problem is that there is no real capital market, so insurance companies, pension funds and others cannot place their capital from premiums on the market and share profits with their commissioners. Only a few months ago, investment funds started working in Serbia, but normally, as commercial, i.e. Risky funds. You know that against these risk-free funds there are non-risks in which insurance companies can invest money from risk-free premiums, in order to achieve profits on their own and on behalf of the committee. These non-risk funds are investment in real estate, rental, high-security mortgage loans, investment in infrastructure through government bonds and securities. These non-risk funds are, I told you already, the only way these insurance companies can make some decent profit they can share with the committee. That's why I mentioned the example of Austria, because there are clear rules where insurance companies invest capital in non-risk funds, where funds from application of the premium are invested up to 20% in real estate. This also means financing transport infrastructure, construction and repair of roads, railway networks, where domestic financial organisations are the concessionaries of these traffic stations. If the government had a clear insurance strategy and our financial system would be much less tycoon, and believe me, Velimir Ilic would have no argument to convince the people that foreign concessionaries are the only source of funding for the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9180	By amendment, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9181	Dear colleagues, before I suggest that the amendment of the predecessor be rejected, I would like to remind myself of what a member of the law for which SRS and fellow MP Topalovic have proposed to delete. In particular, Article 1 of this proposal provides for the possibility for a branch of a foreign insurance company, with the permission of the competent authority, or the National Bank, to carry out the work of insurance. The application is related to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, with a five-year alignment deadline. That's the essence of all the changes and additions to the law we have ahead of us. It is, above all, our country's desire to enter the global financial capital market as soon as possible, and in particular to ensure one stability of financial capital here in Serbia, so that all business entities can behave in a stable and long-term manner on our market. So, the basis of our country's progress is the stability of the financial market and, above all, legal certainty. Just remember, two or three years ago, when we had control over insurance companies through the National Bank of Serbia, what chaos it was. As I recall, I was also a member of the Finance Committee at the time, the National Bank of Serbia closed down about 15 insurance companies. Of course, that contributed, regardless of the problem encountered because of the surplus employees in these companies, that we got stability on the insurance company market. By that time it was almost impossible to trust your insurance house. You couldn't have been one blinker or I don't know what kind of malfunction. damages on the car charge without talking about uncertainty when it was necessary to secure greater immobilities. So that security primarily allows us to be a stable market and only a stable market can be a magnet for further investment in our country. When it comes to this concrete proposal to delete the first member, I will tell my predecessor that there is no reason that the said member is contrary to the Business Society Act. According to Article 3 of that Law, a company, domestic and foreign companies, may educate one or more branches, that the branch is part of a company which does not have legal personality, has a place of business and representatives, and that it does business with third parties on behalf and on behalf of the company. It should also be recalled that the Business Register Act states that the register, in addition, contains data on the branch of the economic operator, on the basis of which the Agency for Economic Registers, according to that law, registers branches of foreign legal entities that meet those legal requirements and assigns them the parent numbers under which they are registered and under which they will operate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So there is no dispute that what my predecessor states as reasons why this article is being deleted simply does not stand. When we look at all the other amendments with which SRS MPs are coming out, one identity should be seen in these proposed amendments, namely, almost everywhere is written -- deleted, deleted, deleted, deleted. What does that mean? Please don't be angry, I just want to make arguments here. This means that the Serbian Radical Party, which two years ago and how it struggled not to pass a new insurance law, which allowed such control of these insurance companies, and now we have the opportunity to improve it all, fully agrees with the old law. Gentlemen, I ask you openly: does it turn out that you have one late mind, so you claim that the law that was passed two and a half years ago was valid, and does that mean that two years ago you were wrong when we were here representing the thesis that a new law should be passed? These are basic questions, although I can find an answer for you right now; your goal is to delete, with a proposal to delete, by burying the work of this assembly. We of the DSS (of course, we will vote against the proposed amendment) think that this Serbia should agree on basic laws, that we should find optimal deadlines for calling the elections, as follows the Constitution, and that there should certainly be no big disputes about some laws, such as these, and additions to the Insurance Act. We can have small disputes, we can have a need to fix something, but the amendments that say "get deleted" will certainly not do that. I thank you and hope the MPs will not accept my predecessor's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9182	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miroslav Petkovic appeared, and then the MP of the people, Verica Radeta. I apologize, under the amendment Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9183	Follow me a little bit, Mr. Grouchy, because if you'd followed, then you'd have turned your attention to a colleague who just spoke here about the amendment and who held a principle debate here. I assumed, when he answered, that he would make some argument as to why the amendment of the SRS MPs was not good, why it should not be accepted. A colleague has said exactly what we have known for years - the amendment cannot be accepted because it comes from the MPs of the SRS, and it is truly terrible. Why do we suggest that some members be deleted? I have to... My colleague, we have also been in the past session of this Parliament, but it seems you have not remembered, and I will, above all, explain to the public, because you are trying to present the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party by submitting amendments to try to slow down the work of this parliament, and then the president will schedule sessions as he has scheduled what we have just discussed. So there are three groups of amendments: there are amendments to which we are trying to regulate the law, a proposal from the Government that is needed, which is relatively good, but from our point of view, it needs to be regulated by amendments; there are laws that we don't think we should; when there are laws in which there are some members that need to be deleted, or, of course, we suggest that it be deleted. Every time we explain, both in writing and in this place, which is why we think we should delete the member. There is a group of laws that the ruling majority submit to the MPs and that the MPs of the SRS think shouldn't exist in our legal system. I don't see what's illegal about it. For what should not exist in our legal system as a law, we propose to delete a member per member, because we do not have a different business option. Because you have problems and why you mentioned the election in the middle of the Insurance Act, I really don't know. That's the problem between you, Mr. Matić, and your coalition partners. On Friday, your colleagues say that whoever calls the election, which is Oliver Dulic, is the president of the Republic of Serbia's backstabbing knife; that's what one of your colleagues said, and the other said it was immoral. You probably thought about your morale over the weekend, how you could sit down with those people in the government afterwards. That is your problem, but don't talk to MPs about the insurance bill's proposal to distract your problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9184	Mr. Slavoljub Matic reported on the replica. Excuse me, Mr. Topalovich, have you answered the line? The lady says you picked up after the amendment, if that's what I get? Okay, say, I beg you to shout, at least you have the strength. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9185	Mr. Gristle, I'm a cultural man, so I'm not yelling at Parliament. A colleague from the DSS just remembered -- wipe out, disobey me or cannot because of some of his financial skills to listen carefully to me so that he can bring his own judgment. I have listed here very specifically why this amendment should be adopted. You give one space so the branch in Serbia can do literally whatever it wants without any risk or financial responsibility. The second thing is, there's always talk about the CEFTA agreement, the tobacco law, the Insurance Act, the adjustment of the law to the World Trade Organisation, and are we a member of the World Trade Organisation? We didn't, but when we did, then I'll understand, we'll agree to the law. You're also creating a vacuum. For five years, foreign insurance companies can do whatever they want here. The other thing, pal, I understand your nervousness, there goes the privatisation of insurance companies, you're getting ready for another robbery within the financial system, and it's clear as day. Why do you blame the SRS, when Mr. Labus was glaring and dressing when it came to "Dunav Insurance", he did what he wanted. You're acting very incorrectly. You're talking about the election here, and imagine if I were to mention it to you, you're about to cry out here -- the president of your party lives. I'll remind you, my colleague, when you're so much in favour of the election, I'll quote this the other night at the Star-Bayern game, the whole stadium has been running – save Serbia and kill yourself, Kostunica!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9186	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9187	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party submitted to the Insurance Act is 17 and that Mr Matic had any human and professional honesty, he would say, in the light of each amendment, the essence of each amendment is. The general conclusion is that no law you've passed is so bad that you can't make it worse, which is also this proposal to amend and supplement the law. You make the existing law even worse, and it will have even more devastating consequences, which we will have in the debate today to prove individually according to each amendment. The amendment to Article 1, which says "expect" has an explanation that a member is contrary to the Business Society Act. In light of the amendment to Article 2, where it is said to be "expunged", the proposed member of the law is too high and premature, because it is based on the accession of the WTO. Article 3 which is deleted has an explanation – reciprocity is a necessary principle that applies all serious and responsible states. You, Mr. Matić, do not have this principle, you and the party from which you come and members of your coalition, but for us in all relations, the primary mutual profitability of trade relations is in political relations with mutual respect. It's one of the principles. Article 5, which is also proposed to be deleted, is said to explain that the previous solution is better than the proposed one, as it reduces the possibility of abuse, which also applies to Article 6 of the amendment. In Article 7, where Article 1 point 7 is proposed to be deleted, it is said – it is acceptable that the person whose request has been rejected determines a minimum period of time to submit a new request, but only provided that there are objective criteria for refusal, not that, under discretionary law, the will, which is a specific type of pressure and racketeering, is rejected. Article 8 is deleted because it also does not comply with the Business Society Act. Article 10 is deleted, as the restriction provided for in the proposal is entirely excessive, etc. until the 17th amendment we submitted. At the moment of submission of the amendment, which you will hear here from our colleagues, it is very argumentative and it is not written to you as it was written to you for an unconstitutional Article 15, where you want to protect against the adoption of malicious and harmful measures by the National Bank of People who do so in the exercise of public authority. That amendment will also be explained and may be the most devastating, because it is counter-constitutional. So much for how Serbian Radical Party MPs work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9188	I would like to thank MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a National MP, Zoran Nikolic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9189	Dear Chairman, I think you've had a lot of reasons to react, because you've brought out here harsh qualifications about the Prime Minister. I know that you've allowed yourself the right to quote, to call, because you have no one to quote, because you probably encouraged that atmosphere there, so now you're trying to present it here in your own way... One thing's symptomatic. So, you've submitted an amendment saying you're being deleted. Then you come out here and you have absolutely no argument why it should be deleted, but then you resort to your already established practice that, when you have no arguments in the law and amendments, you go to personal disqualifications. You do that a lot, but now I'm telling you from this pay phone that we won't tolerate it anymore. I'd like to ask Ms. Veterans Radeta not to throw it away. I want to answer to you, too. I said two days ago that my personal attitude... (Chairman: Please don't throw the MP away as he speaks.) )......................................................................................................... who announces the election by 9 December will stab the state of Serbia in the back. Now I am opening another question here – does the SRS insist on December 9th, does the SRS want presidential elections by December 9th? I asked you this question two days ago, because I thought Mr. Stefanovic said something like that. I didn't know if it was the official position of the Central Homeland Authority or whether it was his personal position. Maybe it's some young lion in the SRS who makes statements like this without checking, and it's possible he's in charge of the Central Homeland Administration. I'd like that dilemma to be resolved here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9190	Thanks to the National MP Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people is Slavoljub Matic, then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarović, then the MP of the people, Veroljub Arsic, and the MP of the people, Vjerica Radet, and then the MP of the people Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9191	When I mentioned "the obstacle of business," believe me, I had no idea that this is the way the discussion would expand. Unfortunately, there is a part of Parliament here that in every way possible extends the discussion. For the sake of correction, to remind you, according to Article 104 of my predecessors, Mrs Tabaković, I listed Article 3 at the beginning of my presentation. The company law, where it is written that a company, domestic or foreign company, can educate one or more branches, that the branch is part of a company which does not have legal personality, has a place of business and representatives, and that it does business with third parties in the name and for the account of a company. If you read the laws carefully, which you claim are not in line with this bill, you will see that you are wrong. I ask you to carefully read all those laws that you state are not in line with the proposed amendments and additions. I would also like to add Mrs. Verice Radet and remind you that at the beginning of my presentation, I also quoted the said article you said should be deleted, and also the reasons why you were wrong, and very specific reasons. Of course, in my 15 minutes, I had the opportunity to expand it in the way I thought and I think it should be; when we have a proposal to delete, or an amendment with the word "wipe," I think it should be kind of stamped or simply shown to the general public because it's a kind of obstruction. I understand that among the 17 of your amendments there are some where it says "expect," but I don't understand that almost all of your amendments sound the same and are written the same. That's why I couldn't resist saying what I thought. The other MPs, I ask that we return to the basic subject after all. I think Serbia really has a lot to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9192	I thank the People's MP Slavoljub Matic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic appeared. I understand Monday is your first day of work and you're rested, but I'm asking for some silence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised that Mr Slavoljub Matic here says he did not expect this kind of discussion to develop. I guess he meant it was democratic for them to say what they had and no one could answer that. When you talk about elections, I see it's a painful topic for DSS MPs, you attack the SRS to seek the election on December 9th. No, we have made a clear position before you and said December 9th elections certainly do not go in favour of Serbia. What's this about? You again show your old pain, or your true face, and these faces have a thousand, for each new day, one face at a time. Will you, gentlemen of the DSS, step out of that government if your coalition partners question the December 9th election, that's what you need to tell us. No, you want one other thing. You want to secure Boris Tadic another term. You must not directly support it, but ask for the December 9th elections to be called and the SRS boycotts those elections. In that, gentlemen, you will not succeed. We said clearly and loudly that we do not want then elections, but if we are forced we will certainly not allow Boris Tadic to win either December 9th or any other date. We'll win whenever there's an election. The second thing, you mentioned how they were said I don't know what insults, how they were supposed to react to the chairman of Milutin Mrkonjic because someone here mentioned the prime minister. You, like every time before, have made a mistake. That mention of the prime minister and that slogan "save Serbia and kill yourself, Kostunica", that is something, gentlemen, which is part of the democratic tradition that you have introduced into Serbia. When that slogan was called out and the name Slobodan Milosevic was eventually the highlight of democracy. So, you, gentlemen, are on the wings of those same fans, and of the Star, and of Partizan and other clubs, on the wings of the five-eyed revolution, and then you swore to protect those fans. They, remember the show after October 5th, were heroes, "parties" and "grobars" were heroes of your revolution. As you deceived everyone else, so you deceived them, so instead of being grateful to them today, you brought laws to drive them ten years into prison. Since I was at that game too, here, I'll tell you what else the Red Star fans sang, another slogan, says – the new minister answered (think of the police minister), the flags banned us, let that... Now he knows well, in the end it will be our victory. So, you've succeeded... (President: I thank the People's MP. Just one more sentence. You, DOS gentlemen, have succeeded in what no one has succeeded before you, which is to unite Star and Partizan fans, because both of them, and this is very important, are Scandicating, but not only "save Serbia and kill yourself, Kostunica", but also "save Serbia and kill yourself, Boris".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9194	Please, Mr. Sarovic. Thank you. Just without the hard words. The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the People's Parliament of the DSS, I don't understand why you insist so much and attack the amendments of the SRS. Why are you defending legal proposals that aren't yours? First law, the basic Insurance Act was voted here on a proposal from the G17 party. Now, these changes and additions to the Insurance Act have been pushed by G17 to the Democratic Party and are again on the Serbian Parliament's agenda. You've been pretending so far not to take any responsibility for everything your coalition partners do, so nicely, then, gentlemen of the DSS, continue to act uninformed and don't run before the ore, and most of the responsibility (don't think you're not carrying) they bear and do not accept that part of responsibility to themselves. As for the amendment, the ways in which the very findings are written that amendments do not meet those basic conditions, I ask you a question – why have you so many times signed the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party and given them to the Assembly as amendments and additions to certain laws? Why is it that most of the amendments now have the text "expect"? You bring and you propose worse and worse laws. Here's how that order goes. First went the basic Insurance Act. Before the law itself, you put out 15 domestic smaller insurance companies, allegedly not meeting the legal requirements. How they don't meet the legal requirements when the Finance Committee, Mr Slavoljub Matic, and you're boasting the team, sat down, held a session of a closed-minded type; you kicked out the press, I understand that, but why you kicked out the MPs who aren't members of the Committee. That is correct and let it be checked in the record from that session of the Committee. Then what are you hiding? You say you need to sell insurance companies and reduce competition. All right, you've cut the competition. What is said in Article 1, to which is the amendment submitted by counterpart Topalovic? It is said to delete the following part of the text: "The activity of insurance is carried out by an insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity", means a company registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, "as well as a branch of a foreign insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity. "Foreign insurance only branch, no company. Then what are you talking about? What kind of arrangement are you talking about? It seems to me that this is about creating as much competition as possible so that two of the largest domestic insurance companies don't sell themselves, but give themselves away. That's what this is about. Therefore, all amendments to the SRS are deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9196	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, then the National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then the National MP Zdravko Topalović, finally the National MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Matic here just said, replicating me, that amendments to the SRS should be stamped. I don't understand what's wrong with these people, how all their anxiety shows up behind this pay phone. I don't know what that means. How can the amendment be stamped? How can the work of a MP be branded? I repeat again what I said in the middle of last week, since those of the DSS started responding to our amendments, that's the other day since they were assigned, so they obviously have to speak for this speaker in order to probably distract the citizens of Serbia from the existence of their party. They obviously find it difficult to do so, unlike, of course, the Serbian Radical Party MPs. We are here to do our jobs and we are not having a hard time working both when the time is extended and in the days that are not foreseen for the work of Parliament in the Rules of Procedure. We never make a problem about it, we just insist on keeping things in line with the Rules of Procedure and respecting the procedure. Then he says Mr. Matic can say whatever he wants in his 15 minutes. Absolutely right. No one's ever said and you haven't heard from anyone in the SRS that he's turned someone's attention to talk about the subject, etc. The theme is for the People's Messenger what the Messenger chooses to speak. The MP corresponds to the voters. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. I don't mind, Mr. Matrix, that you used your 15 minutes to say what you think you should say. You say six minutes, so you can explain in six minutes, it takes me 15 minutes to explain. I always use 15 minutes. It's a simple matter of ability. Don't, Mr. Matice, bother you when other MPs use their rights. So, I don't dispute your right, but don't argue with our right when it comes to, first of all, submitting amendments at all. As for counterpart Nikolic and what he stressed here is that he is the one who said that he who calls the December 9th election is stabbing Serbia, now Mr Nikolic wants to turn the water to another side and draw attention to the public of Serbia that someone else is responsible for calling those elections, so he calls the SRS. Mr. Nikolic, I don't see you in the O.R., but, gentlemen of the DSS, the key to the election is in Kostunica's hands. If he won't let us have the election on December 9th, because it really isn't political good for Serbia, let him disband the government, resign and thus explain to Boris Tadic that he really cares about the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9198	Just to inform you, MPs Nebojsa Stefanović, Zdravko Topalović, Sreto Peric, Zoran Krasic, Zvonko Stevic and Milos Aligrudić reported. Since the debate has nothing to do with the subject that's on the agenda, and you have a right to a replica, then everyone else is answering the Rules of Procedure, and since the subject is about calling the elections, if there's anything I can do to help, I'd give you some information, just so you don't argue and we don't waste time. Is that why you didn't answer? Okay. What do I suggest? Now that we're all here, let's get back to the agenda, because there's no need to talk about things that aren't happening right now. And the coalition partner agrees, so let's keep working on the amendments. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9199	Dear Mr President, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act in Article 1 provides for certain amendments to the current law, which read as follows: "as well as a branch of a foreign insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out certain activities". I think it's Article 1. The draft law provides for the possibility of a foreign insurance company, with the permission of the competent authority, which is the NBS, to carry out the work of insurance. The application of this article is related to Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation, it clearly states in Article 25. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, i.e. after Serbia's inclusion in the World Trade Organisation, will take place five years after this law is implemented, i.e. by this member specifically. We have talked here about whether in certain legal regulations that regulate similar matter there is a basis for such a solution, as proposed by the competent ministry and government. I think that fellow Matic made it very clear what it says in the Business Society Act and in the Foreign Trade Law, where it is indeed predicted that foreign society can have a branch in Serbia, which will deal with certain insurance matters. I don't see why it would be a stumbling block today in parliament. I fully respect my colleague Topalovic, who has suggested that this member be deleted, but we believe that it is not good to delete this member, but these are the reasons why this member should be accepted this way and therefore we will not vote for the proposed solution that his colleague Topalovic made in his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9200	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9201	I'm reporting from Article 101, since I'm directly mentioned. My colleague Nikolic called me several times on this subject. I didn't want to answer last week, but since it happened again today, it obviously takes an explanation and I'll give it. During the previous week, I repeated what I have said several times over the past few months, because I think it is the attitude of the citizens of Serbia and something I deeply believe in, which is that when elections are called and the SRS has decided to participate in these elections, it will be convincingly defeating Boris Tadic and every other opponent, I am talking about presidential elections. The SRS candidate will be established at a central administration session. My personal right and my position is to fight within my party to make it Tomislav Nikolic. I am convinced that he will win both Tadic and any other candidate who will run against him. I know this is now a very problematic topic that complicates coalition relations. Mr Nikolic, a DSS counterpart, said on Friday -- who will call the December 9th elections stabs Serbia in the back. Mr. Aligrudic sat next to him and did not answer to deny it. Today, Mr. Nikolic says "it was my personal attitude," and that already eases that form. What does that mean? Does this mean that it will be moral to stay with a coalition partner in the government, if the coalition partner, in this case DS, signs elections for December 9th, so Mr. Zoran Nikolic will say – it was my personal position, I disagree, I am angry with the party, but life is like that. We have witnessed the most difficult conflicts, trench conflicts and the most difficult struggles between DS and DSS have been around management posts, boards of directors, because there is one serious thing, and that is that both DSS and DSS have clear views on whether to vote, what to do with this, what to do with it, what to do with it, but they have no position, neither as parties, especially as Government, what to do with countries that unilaterally recognise, don't God, independence of Kosovo and Metohija, if they self-proclaim it. We didn't hear that in this congregation. None of you have said – when someone unilaterally declares and recognises Kosovo's independence, we will do so. It wasn't, but every day, and that's when the MPs of the SRS started talking about the Insurance Act... We didn't start the election story, we didn't touch it. Apparently, it is insinuating some political group and apparently bringing instability. After all, Tomislav Nikolic says in his interview in the list of "Justice" today, "The key is in the hands of Vojislav Kostunica. Let him tell his coalition partner that he will resign, that is to say, if he calls the December elections and thus shows the whole of Serbia that he cares more about Serbia than about the political position, the government, the board of directors and everything else. "
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9202	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zdravko Topalovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9203	Mr. Dulic, Articles 101, 104 and 105. We'll be back on the subject. Mr. Matic and Mr. Nikolic obviously didn't listen very carefully. For Mr. Nikolic, I don't know what's in the profession, so I doubt he could follow me. Once again, we will repeat why we have expressed concern and suggested that this member be deleted – precisely because foreign insurance companies through their branches do not have any responsibility here. A five-year vacuum is created from the day of the adoption of that law and the accession of the WTO. In those five years, these branches here can do whatever they want. My colleague, you yourself mentioned that, under the Foreign Trade Act, a legally dependent organisational part of the founder who, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, permanently carries out the activities for which the founder is registered in the country of establishment, means not in Serbia... That means they can do whatever they want here. My colleagues from the DSS, I'm waiting for you when we get to the amendment on the level of privatisation, on the percentage. You say you're a state-of-the-art party, so let's see if you accept the SRS amendment to privatise 49% and 51% to remain state. Do not refuse all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. You think insurance laws, foreign trade and the Business Society Act are good. They're not good and they need to be changed. I am terribly surprised that the Democratic Party of Serbia has defended the minister here today more than members of the Democratic Party. It's really weird.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9204	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and then the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to a number of MPs who don't often take a word for this speaker in the Rules of Procedure, but what we heard today can't leave me indifferent either, because a certain number of MPs, that's their right, I don't get into it, almost never speak in the debate in principle, just using the opportunity of the Rules of Procedure. Now to you and the public of Serbia, let me tell you who is obstructing the work of the National Assembly. He's running the government. Who's in charge of this government? President-in-Office Vojislav Kostunica. How's she doing the obstruction? Do so, dear colleagues, remember only what laws we have received so far, so does the government obstruct the work of parliament? Do it. Besides the government, at today's session, it is not always such a case, some MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are obstructing. Mr. Maticu, it is not true that all amendments, and the Serbian Radical Party has submitted exactly 17 amendments to the Insurance Act, say that a certain text of the legislative proposal is deleted. Those who are on our behalf, and for the citizens of Serbia, are deleted, are unacceptable. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic said we will not allow Boris Tadic to win, we will not make it impossible to win a political party representative that protects the interests of Serbia and individual citizens of Serbia. But here, not that we will not make it possible, but we must prevent the victory of those candidates of political parties who do not work in Serbia's interest, in the interests of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, will, with those with whom it will have a coalition, if necessary, or other capacity, be able to take this Serbia forward in the best possible way and to give Serbian citizens the knowledge and show that this country needs much more to be loved, to do much more for it and to make it better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9206	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9207	Mr Dulic, I call on the members of 101th and 104th on behalf of the DSS MPs, and I also want to affirm Article 27 because of the chairmanship and to encourage the chairman to hold meetings of the National Assembly in the future, because the National Assembly is practically the only place where citizens can find out what is going on in the state of Serbia. Switch the remote control to the first program, you will see, it is likely that the sale of the Slave Houses of Belgrade has started, sold by Vojislav Kostunica. Of course, they are not in favour of today's debate on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Why? Because in 2004, the law was passed as an epochal form, but in the meantime it must be seen and the crime that took place in the Danube. There's a crime on the other side. Well, then those who are in the DSS are also in charge of being smart by keeping quiet, and this is what Mr. Nikolic taught us several times, as in that People's Radical Party, whom they would like to look like, with their faction, exactly who was in charge of attacking, who was in charge of defending, and who was in charge of keeping quiet. Since Nikolic was in charge of keeping quiet, here, you saw the problem when he spoke. Yesterday they had a meeting at the DSS; I don't know what they were eating there, but they got hooked on something dangerous. You're used to keeping something that's been decorated. In Montenegro when it is said decorated, it is "Niksicko Beer", and in Serbia when it is said decorated, then Mladjan Dinkic. You decide whether you're in the G17 plus or in the DSS or, better yet, you do the fusion and get together with the Democratic Party, and then we'll draw some lines, you fight there. I just don't know how you're going to handle it after you've become groundless, the ruleless, lost your territory, lost your property, and won't let a normal debate go today in which Serbian citizens would clearly see what their intention was since 5 October 2000, all to fry, anything to sell. Today you have to listen in the area of insurance as it is fried, sold by the democratic bloc and why the National Assembly is tasked with 125.5 votes to vote all to satisfy the interests and orders that have come from abroad. The SRS will criticise you and inform the citizens about your plight of intent and role.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9208	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MPplatmir Stević appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I belong to that category of MPs who very rarely report when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. While you are arguing here and arguing with each other, I expect information about my previous reporting and how individuals, institutions and entities agree on a difficult life in Kosovo and Metohija anyway. There is another problem these days, a serious problem related to education, when students of Serbian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija are at stake. Namely, what's this about? I received a letter from students from the central part of Kosovo and Metohija and I will read it to you: "We are talking to you because of the great problem that has hit students from the Philosophy and Faculty of Philosophy in Gracanica. It's about abolishing the outstretched departments and moving students to Kosovo Mitrovica. The number of students who are facing a transfer is 131, so they are students at the age of three and four. As the main reason for the abolition of these departments, we are listed - the construction and purchase of apartments in Kosovo Mitrovica for professors, the construction of a new amphitheater. We students believe that there is no adequate reason to shut down these departments and that abolishing the department brings students a number of major problems, and some of them are: accommodation in dorms is not provided as promised, and the financial situation of students does not allow renting private apartments. Every student's safety has been compromised as he travels daily on the road of Gracanica - Kosovo Mitrovica. The financial situation is threatened by most students and cannot withstand forced expenditure. We also believe that there are all conditions for maintaining these departments. The professor is not a problem if the appointments are well organized. Professors are not a problem because they come regularly, teach lectures. Students are the least of the problems, because they also regularly attend lectures and truly want these departments to be held. We are talking to you to inform you about our problem and with the aim of providing us with support to persist in our desire to maintain this department in Gracanica. We expect you to do everything in your power. "We of the Socialist Party of Serbia believe that the requirements of these students are justified and established. Such a decision was signed by previous Minister Vuksanovic, I don't know why; it is strange that in this uncertainty, when there is a certain amount of fear of survival in Kosovo's premises, individuals are bold and give themselves the right to make such decisions in a difficult situation. I ask the Ministry of Education and the Authority, based in Mitrovica, to meet the requirements of students and to allow them to continue their education and study where they started, in Gracanica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9210	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic and MP Dragan Todorovic also appeared. Given that you are leading your parliamentary groups, I would ask you to express your position on this matter, and then continue the debate on the agenda, if you agree, or to give up and continue working on the amendment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9211	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 101 and Article 104. When it comes to participation in the debate, there was one situation that we all got used to earlier, I don't think that was very good: MPs of the ruling coalition generally don't say anything, looking to save time, and those who don't have to take care of time using their rights and talking about the bill, submitting amendments, speaking in principle, it's all normal. At one point in time our opinion, in the DSS-NS, was that if such things were observed and they lasted so long, no matter who was in power, who was the opposition, then it also did not contribute to the great reputation of this home. It is simply a public impression that one of the parties supporting the government, which is mainly preparing legislative proposals to the government, is exclusively a voting machine to vote on a draft law that is on the agenda. It is the ruling impression in Serbia, it is nothing controversial between us. Our idea has nothing to do with any political moment, it has been considered a long time ago, and we thought that, at least to a lesser extent, it would be necessary for representatives of the ruling coalition to take part in the debate on the law in principle; to some extent acceptable from our point of view and in the debate on amendments, therefore, in particular, when it would be well defended, according to our belief, a bill that came from the government by saying something or an amendment that was submitted, which challenges a specific member of the law for reasons which were laid down by the applicants, or that, in that way, in the extreme line, would defend himself and the law in general. It's perfectly normal, and I don't think there's any particular background in that. As for the other discussion concerning obstruction and these things, we have never considered amendments to the SRS and any other opposition parties as obstructions of parliament's work. You got a problem with that? Are you saying you should? No, I don't. So we looked at it as a way for a political party that currently does not exercise power to get as much space for this speaker as possible, to express its political views and it is natural to try to keep it going as long as possible. So there's no big philosophy here. As for the second open issue, when it comes to elections, as it has kind of opened in these few days, I would say this: political attitudes are more or less clear on the issue. Now let me explain why more or less. As far as the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia is concerned, our political stance is absolutely clear, we are absolutely against the election being called for December 9th, the day before December 10th, when a cycle of work of "the troika" that is due to submit a report was announced by Albanian separatists for Kosovo's declaration of independence, possibly followed by the recognition of another state. We thought it was very bad. Why is this exactly the date? Why isn't it seven days later, why isn't it 27 days later? These are questions that there are no answers. We talk about it publicly, whether or not we are in a coalition with the Democratic Party whose position on the matter is clearly different and the difference in attitudes on this issue cannot be without consequences, there is a clear point. Of course, we talked about other people, participants in the political process that we thought we were talking about, and we still feel like they're just waiting for the election to be called to come out, regardless of the arguments that are being heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9212	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the members of 225 and 226, but before I explain why I report to the Rules of Procedure, only one friendly proposal to the members, or to the parties in the ruling coalition. Aman, people, sit down, agree, if we have to and interrupt the session of the Assembly, and solve those problems, you want elections, you don't want choices, what your attitudes are, what do you think, etc. I think it's a lot simpler than the agreement on public enterprises. It's a lot easier and you'll finish the job without any major problems. Mr. Aligrudic, I think you are wrong to mention December 10th as the "D" day concerning the Cypriot separatists and the possibility of declaring Kosovo and Metohija independence. We've got a little more of a scam ahead of us. Not 10, but between December 25th and 31st, because 23rd should be the second round; if they did so on December 10th, Boris Tadic would have nothing to look for in the second round. So they want to do so before there is any declaration of independence between Kosovo and Metohija. If I have a relationship with someone I write to, "Dear George," I expect "Dear George" to sort of forward some information, and based on that information, there will be some moves that will lead to this attempt to hold the election by December 23rd. Why December 25th or December 26th? Because the entire Western Europe is moving on Christmas and New Year's holidays until the third, probably, so you know, while it's stalking... You know, unfortunately, what this world is like, the affair is coming up. And, independent Kosovo and Metohija have been declared, there is no way to resolve, there is no institution that works, no position can be expressed. This will in some ways be the possibility that this first, most difficult step that is being taken in that direction will be passed and that time will be given to make it easier to achieve the goal that they want to achieve, and that is, it has been declared, has not happened for ten days and therefore slowly enters the procedure, and then slowly, there is no reason to rush. It's the most dangerous thing that happens to us when it comes to trying to question presidential elections, because, as far as I can tell, that's the basic reason why the election is being debated 9 so that the next decision between 25th and 31st.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9214	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9215	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226, in connection with Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have a question for you, Mr. President. The question is: when will the draft law on amendments and additions of the Law on Broadcasting be found on the agenda of the National Assembly, submitted on 19 June of the current year by the Members of the SVM? We asked for July 3rd to be included in the National Assembly's agenda of this bill. Then you, Mr. President, said it was not possible to extend the agenda during the extraordinary session, but that this bill would be on the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session, which began on October 1st. In July, you have repeatedly promised that this would take place on the agenda of the first session of the regular session. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. When we asked October 1st for this bill to be found on the agenda, then, Mr. President, you said that this bill of law would be on the agenda when the government's opinion on the bill arrived. Until that happens, we can come across the Rules of Procedure all day long, but this bill will not be found on the agenda. Then, on October 1st, we said the government proposed another July 5th not to accept this legislative proposal, so we have the government's opinion, all formal conditions have been met so that the bill could be found on the agenda. Two public debates were under way in July and September on the subject of the privatisation of electronic media and the exemption from the privatisation process of those electronic media broadcasting programmes and in the languages of national minorities. The SVM has proposed a system solution that could address this issue, but this bill must be on the agenda to see who is in favour of adopting these proposals and who is against them. Please, President, say when this proposal will be on the agenda, what should we do as MPs in a formal sense in order for this to be on the agenda, because on 1 October, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been broken, and I ask that at the next session, or at the third session of the regular session, this will be on the agenda. We are not asking to be at the second session, because the session will discuss an agreement on visa relief and consultation of the heads of parliament's groups we agreed that the agreement must be ratified by 1 November in order to enter into force on 1 January. So we're not asking for it to be on the agenda at the second session, we're asking you to do it in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9216	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9217	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS respects this agreement on the morning work of the session. I only answered because of what Mr. Balint Pastor was saying. So, Mr. Pastor, you've been fooled by the campaign. That's what they promised you, and you believed it. Otherwise it won't happen to you. I would like to say that Ivica Dacic, on behalf of the SPS, submitted a proposal a few days ago to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting, in the sense that the privatisation of all electronic media in Serbia has been extended to three years. So, wider than what you suggested. I'm simply calling on us to do it together. I now remind my colleagues who participated with me on a TV show on Nis where we promised, where on behalf of the SPS, we are asking that privatisation of all electronic media in Serbia be postponed for three years, because what is happening now in Serbia is something that is causing great damage to Serbia. That's what the subject of your esteemed proposal will be. I suggest we work together on this job, because there are very important reasons not to privatise the media, not to profile some new political centres through media ownership in a new election campaign, which leads Serbia in a completely unwanted direction. So the least problem is when the budget is financed in part by a public medium like the electronic media in Subotica or in Chačka, or at any other point in our country. In this regard, we offer co-operation with this, to find a medium solution, and the president of the National Assembly, we ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when conditions are acquired, this comes to the agenda, because the privatisation of electronic media is already under way. This will protect the specificities of minorities in Serbia, protect both the basic political, cultural and public interest of all Serbian citizens. It is impossible to provide timely, valid and objective information in Serbia if the owners of all electronic media in Serbia are private persons. They have a completely different interest in the interests of Serbian citizens and what you're looking for we support. I note once again that on behalf of the SPS Mr Ivica Dacic, the president of our party and the president of the parliamentary group, did so a few days ago and you will get it, if you haven't already, those amendments and additions to the Law are also in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9218	According to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Milos Aligrudic and Dragan Todorovic reported. After that, I really urge us to get back to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9219	Very short. I have to answer what's been said. So, as for what can happen after December 10th, I will agree with Mr. Todorovic that things don't have to be so simple. There are various possible scenarios when it comes to December 10th, a potential second round of presidential elections, if they are scheduled for December 9th, but one is doubtless – if elections are scheduled for December 9th, then there will certainly be some election campaign for those who want to participate in such elections by December 9th. Of course, if there's a second round, it's going to take place in those two weeks between the first and the second round. So all this time I'm talking about, no matter what the date is, it's not 17, it's December 25, it's the 23rd round, then all that time is practically occupied by political tensions of the election campaign. We all know that since the multi-party in Serbia, in this more recent era, no election campaign has passed without great tension in the game, regardless of whether it is a correct election game in the formal sense of words. There's a lot of tension. It's just a whole society thing. Participants of political party leaders who will be candidates in these elections will mainly deal with their campaigns, and I fear it is not an atmosphere where we can pay attention to a normal, regular way of dealing with the problems facing the state. That was our attitude. As for the reaction of Kosovo Albanians, I accept that it is possible for them to do nothing on December 11th, it is quite legitimate to look at the matter, but given the long-term preparations and the fully obvious support of the United States for the act, it is simply hard to believe that even their mentors would stop such a move for a longer period of time. So be patient and wait a week, two or three, when we could for more years, that's understandable, but it's hard to imagine that I can wait longer than a month or a month and a half. So that's some thinking and it should also be included in that whole story. So our idea, when we opened the question of choice these days and when it would be good, and it certainly wouldn't be good to talk, was based on these postulates -- to avoid a direct tension at this point. It is needed regularly in the country, when it comes to elections, but at the moment it can be avoided through the consent of all of us in this House, because all of this is not enough for the ruling coalition; other political parties need to participate, especially at the moment the largest political party in Serbia, the SRS, because there is no solution to the problem without it. So I think that's why it's important to avoid this tension now, if that's possible. Whether disagreements on this issue will result in some concrete political consequence, it is now a completely different topic. Someone can open it, but it doesn't matter. It was important for us to decide on the need for Serbia to have elections right now when it comes to this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9220	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic and then you are a replica relating to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9221	Yet again, I call on the ruling coalition's parties to sit down and agree. I think there's a way out of this and he's the simplest if you do. Otherwise, all other things are speculation here. We can guess a being like this, it will be for these reasons or those, but the fact is that you decide on it and it is simply not moral that such different or opposite views of such an important issue leave that coalition still as if nothing was happening, that you continue to exercise power, and that you are essentially drastically different when it comes to how I could conclude from the presentation of Milos Aligrudić, the most important thing. I really think the most important thing for the state is the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. To return to that reason of my date, members of 225 and 226. Mr. President, I need to inform you and don't in any way transfer me to abuse the pay phone and that it's any kind of obstruction of the Assembly. I tried to react in a way that I think is only legitimate and possible for the problems we have, and the problems are related to the Rum municipality; I wanted to do it in a way that would be best and not burden the Serbian Parliament. Namely, you know that it was scheduled for the Defence and Security Committee at 10:30 and I was waiting for the minister to come to that committee, so I could ask him certain questions about the events in the municipality of Rum. Namely, I'll just briefly tell you what happened on the 26th, in the fifth. Interestingly, Fridays, weekends, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, are also trying to end some things, i.e. to hunt in a blurry or in a break when the state does not work or the institutions do not work. Namely, what happened? Over 100 members of the special units of the MUP came to the municipality of Ruma and took over the town house, or the municipality of Ruma. A representative came or presented himself as a representative of the Ministry of Local Self-Government (or against local self-government), we have both a picture and a DVD, that's this lady. Without any paper, they banned the entry of the legally elected head of the municipality of Ruma, Mr. Srdjan Nikolic, from entering the municipality of Ruma, Mr. Milan Kotic. To insist on showing the papers to see who they are, whether they're some parapolitan forces that have the same uniform as our police, because they didn't have those name tags and last names... They took a bus that wasn't a bus to the M.O.P. For all of us, we have evidence. They simply occupied the municipality, they took the seal, so a new seal was made that was forged. After a while, about two hours, these parapolitan forces retreated, because no one had left and said by the state -- the order came from that and that. To explain all of this to you, gentlemen of the Parliament, that this would not happen to you... Unfortunately, it was happening to us in this room here, when some of the shoes, the sweatpants, fell on, no one ever answered. Someone has to answer for this. Someone has hardly abused their position. Do you know what it means when the M.O.P. gives a warrant for over 100 special forces to take action? It's not that. They got together in one car, so they came. Two buses. (President: Mr. Todorovic, you've been using another time. If you'll call again, please finish up, and we'll keep working. ) Criminal charges have been filed against police chief Sremska Mitrovica Goran Milanovic, so that you do not think that anything has been done by heart, is commanded by police station Rum Zeljko Sekulovic, against Sladjan Mladenovic, police officer of Serbia's MUP, deputy commander of Rum Milanko Mialčić police station, head of Sremska Mitrovica Đure Mandic, against Nenad Borovic of Ruma, against Milan Smiljanic of Ruma and against the NN female person who presented herself as an employee of the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Also, criminal charges were filed against Nenad Borovic of Ruma, ul. Vuk Karadzic No. 1, due to the criminal offence of falsifying the I.D., etc. Otherwise, as far as I know, he's the chairman of the Democratic Party Municipal Committee. Also, criminal charges have been filed against Jedimirovic Ljubisa, also, as far as I know, members of the Democratic Party. Well, gentlemen of the Democratic Party can't take it anymore. You can no longer abuse the ministries, you can no longer break the law, you can no longer try to take any municipality in Serbia. You did it with the Belgrade City Assembly. There is still reportedly a response from the Belgrade City Assembly to get to know what happened at the Belgrade City Assembly session. You know everything that's happened. You abuse the majority, you abuse the Constitution, the law, you're all capable of breaking everything, just to achieve your goal and to extend power in Serbia. But you won't be able to. All of this will lead very quickly to a new election, and then you'll be just a dark past that the citizens will see they don't remember at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9222	The word is Slavoljub Matic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9223	Mr. President, I want to go back to the basic subject, and these are amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, and I think that would be good for all MPs in the future, at least today. I wanted to take advantage of the right to a replica and complete the presentation of my predecessor, who mentioned the closed session of the Finance Committee held about two years ago, after the adoption of a new Insurance Act and after the transfer of competence to the National Bank of Serbia, which corresponded and granted work permits to insurance companies. Namely, after changes and additions to the old Insurance Act, the National Bank, with new competencies, has withdrawn its work license and 15 companies have lost their right to work in the area of insurance. Then we have scheduled a session of the Finance Committee and I have to confirm that this session was closed to the public, but there are reasons why it was closed to the public. I remind you, all the members of the Finance Committee have been given the material that bears the designation "strictly confidential" and it is allowed by the Rules of Procedure that, when you have such material, you also have a session of the Committee on Finance which is closed to the public. For what? Not only have some of the companies not met the basic conditions to work in the area of insurance, but many irregularities, even criminal acts, have been observed in the review of their business books, activities and businesses. This was the reason why, in the preservation of the investigations conducted by the SUP, the session, dedicated to the companies and the work of the National Bank in the insurance companies and the report, which bore the label "extremely confidential", was closed to the public, absolutely legal and according to the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't want to declare anyone here a lawyer for failed insurance companies, but believe me, Mr. Arsic, you don't need to protect them that way. I think it's all of us's interest, first of all, to protect the interests of our citizens. If we have a stable insurance policy and, above all, the rule of law in that very sensitive area, I think we all have it on our hands, both the authorities and the opposition. When we held a meeting closed to the public, MPs of opposition parties had the same material as MPs of the ruling parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9224	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic answered. Here you go. Mr. Arsic, you have seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9225	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a lot of what's been said from this pay phone by the previous speaker is not true. First, I got these materials and the governor of the time and the current, Dinkic and Jelasic, purposely created a mystery about shutting down insurance companies. I'm not saying that in certain insurance companies there were no abuses, i.e. unconscious business, but some major crimes, which is why the Finance Committee had to discuss in the secret session, there was no. Maybe the funds were used to buy real estate, invest in some other funds, which, according to the National Bank, damages the persons provided to these insurance companies. I ask another question – why was the session of the Finance Committee closed for MPs who are not members of the Finance Committee? The meeting was chaired by the deputy chairman of the Committee, Mr Radojko Obradovic. I am in front of the SRS MP, when the chairman asked MPs who were not members of the Committee to leave the session, protested and said – if they can't MPs who are not members of the Committee attend the session, the MPs of the SRS who are members of the Committee will leave the session. Why is it all a mystery and a secret? There are two reasons. First, Dinkic and Jelasic want only the information that fits them, so that no one can give a counterargument and thus hide their abuses in shutting down domestic insurance companies. That's what you'll see in article 180 of the Bill's Amendments and Supplements proposal, as far as it goes, that now you need immunity to get for something like that. The second reason she was a secret is to scare the opposition's MPs, specifically the SRS, and to keep your mouth shut. Well, it won't, you can put "state secret" and "extremely confidential," about where your abuses are, and we'll talk everywhere, wherever there's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9226	Thank you, People's MP Momir Markovic came forward according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9227	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order not to get the wrong idea, Mr. Jezimirović Ljubisa, president of SO Ruma, submitted a proposal for a temporary measure of the withdrawal of the seal, a forged seal made by a certain Borović Nenad from Ruma. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on what grounds? You all know that there's got to be some kind of sealing solution to be given to the stamp, because without it, he doesn't have the right to do it and commits a crime if he makes a seal. How did it come to be made in Ruma a falsified stamp without any other markings and how did it come to be that Borović Nenad is now holding the seal, although SO Ruma acts, as well as other municipalities, clearly regulated who holds the seal, with which the seal is located? What else is going on in So Rum? The political party New Serbia went to local elections, at the time, as well as all other political parties, received 0.014 per cent of the vote, i.e. six or seven voted for the party. Today, this morning, New Serbia in Ruma is making a council group of four apostates from other parties, from people who have been disfellowshipped for trying to sell parliamentary mandates. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the Ruma case, but it's the freshest. I remind you of what they did in Old Paz. To resign as a councilman in Stara Pazova, you get 10,000 euros from the "yellow company". Check which one of yours, where's that money they've been giving. What about Barai? What about Belgrade, the city of Belgrade? Now it's Rum's turn. The only reason, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that they hold elections in all these municipalities the next day. By the way, I warn you, no vote the citizens of Serbia give will be able to steal. What enters the electoral box, whenever the election is called, will also enter the record, at the cost of breaking some election committee presidents and the ballot box upside down. I remind you that this is the NN face that appears here said it is an official of the municipality of Ruma, or "Ministers v. Local Self-Government". I'm asking Minister Jocic to identify who this person is, with which powers, with which papers she came to Ruma municipality, and who he was who issued the warrant; there were over 100 special forces, because you only need special forces to do this kind of dirty work, you probably don't trust regular cops. I demand that all MPs be delivered who issued the order, on the basis of which a member, whose law and who is this individual who has come to take over the municipality of Rum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... If you don't give me, Mr. President, to use another three minutes, here I am. You want me to call you back, get out? (President: Just finish, there's no need to go out again.) Here you go. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Belgrade, the Belgrade City Assembly, the mayor's seat remains open. Mr. Dulic, I urge you, in accordance with the Constitution and your legal powers, to call elections for mayor in Belgrade. I call on you gentlemen from the ruling coalition to stop committing democratic terror in Serb radicals-dominated municipalities, because you have only turned to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9228	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, there are a lot of issues that we need to inform the public of Serbia. That's why we use Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because, unfortunately, this is the only way for Serbian citizens to find out what is really happening, who in what way abuses functions, who breaks regulations and how they behave, as counterpart Krasic said, is spreading today in Serbia. Of course, they are used to thinking that as they entered the Federal Assembly on October 5th, they can enter every congregation in the local government, where they feel they should not be ruled by those people they have chosen. Indeed, there are a lot of problems in this local self-government, i.e. the ministry, and the "minister against local self-government", which is the only thing we can call it, is how he thinks, doesn't care about the law, about the constitution, about the obligation to the Belgrade City Assembly. For Article 111 The law on local self-government doesn't matter. He has long had an obligation to react accordingly to the member, but, of course, the minister is doing what is appropriate to his party. After all, he himself said that the other day, he told the daily "Justice", and pointed out in part when he and the Democratic Party MPs left this room together. What more is there to say? So, if the minister acts like this in this parliament, why would his behaviour by local self-government be amazing, trying to "yellow" come to power anywhere they didn't come to the elections legally. Simply, Serbia remains in an entirely unconstitutional state. We still don't have a Constitutional Court, we still don't have a Constitutional Court law. Mr. Dulic, it's been two hours since you promised to inform us that you're withdrawing those two papers and that you've scheduled a session again. We don't have any written evidence of that. I really have no reason to believe you, because you've shown many times that we can't trust you. Do not force me and force us to intervene again in this section of the Rules of Procedure, but ask the services to inform us in writing. One question I would like to refer to Vuk Jeremic. He said yesterday that our side in Kosovo and Metohija negotiations is ready to be flexible and generous. I don't remember that in the resolution we adopted here, we authorized anyone from the negotiating team to be flexible, especially not generous. We're interested in what Vuk Jeremic meant by that sentence. To you, Mr. Dulic, another remark. I think it is high time that, as Parliament's president, you invite the gentlemen of the negotiating team to give us a report on the work so far, to see which 14 points they have answered, as the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija said, on the 14 points of this "three" that runs this negotiating team. So don't let things surprise us, so important things we read in the papers, but do our job. We Serbian radicals are ready for it, but unfortunately we cannot enable it, or to ensure the presence of the negotiating team, but you, Mr. Dulic, can. Do it now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9230	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bozidar Delic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9231	Mr. President, Article 226. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at 10:30, a session of the Security Committee began. As far as I'm concerned, she'll continue at 1400 hours Thursday. The MPs have already spoken here about this event in Ruma. After the meeting of the Committee, I had the opportunity to analyse the documentation that was submitted for the case, and finally, video footage. I asked myself a question on the board, that we were still asking the Home Secretary just to let us know if it could have happened and if he knew the police had been abused in Ruma. But by analysing the footage, I came to the conclusion that this was a plan involving the government, because from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, which was identified, was also present in Ruma; from the Belgrade police administration, also present people in Ruma, and from the police station, or SUP Sremska Mitrovica. You know what it means when an intervention unit or when a hundred people, whether with long or short weapons, are brought before an institution? How about, gentlemen, if someone brings us here to the Assembly the cordon of the police and we, as MPs, come to our jobs and we can't enter the building without any solution, because no solution has been shown, by local self-government or anyone. Gentlemen, it was Belgrade, now it's Ruma. What's gonna happen next? I think these are very serious things and they concern us, as MPs. That's enough, gentlemen, talking about democracy, because this is violence against democracy, violence against law, violence against law. As Parliament, we have to take measures that this is no longer happening. The incidents could have ended in another way. You might have a chance to see those videos, too, when people set themselves up so that one officer can guard every office and not allow anyone who's been elected or who's been working here for ten years to enter the building itself. We cannot go beyond that, and we must resolve that question either during the day or the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9232	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Anastasovski Dragoljub reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because this morning there was an impeccable event in the Municipality of Palilula, where the SRS boardman who was being harassed by unknown boys; there were five or six of them; and my councilman is a woman who is difficult, God, 40 kilos, they found her harassing. On top of that, I've been told some stupid things. It wouldn't be a big deal if they didn't go around other stories, or they didn't, but in the last week's tabloid, an article appeared that there are drug addicts, criminals, the construction mob, they're taking money in huge quantities, people are recalibrating. That is what I pointed to, or pointed to the existence of drugs found in the Palilu municipality, and I was ridiculed. I'm a depraved jest and a mockery primarily by the president of the county. That's why I'd like the competent authorities to determine who those guys were who were harassing the SRS and I'd like Mr. Jocic to give me a written reply – as far as the investigation came in and if there's even been an investigation into all this that's going on in the Palilu municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9234	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the positioning has begun in Serbia long ago, so now, who gets what. The Democrats wanted to kidnap the municipality of Rum, and there is New Serbia to take over four former SRS deputies and build a club. I don't mind if they take these people, but mandates belong to the SRS list. When a councilman shows up and wants to join the SRS, we tell him -- he can, he can return the mandate of the list you've been selected from, so come, and after the next election, we'll have that in mind and probably put you on the list, depending on your engagement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many municipalities in Serbia in which the SRS is in power. I expect you to go, to steal the seal, because, say, Kickindu, you can't take anything other than leaving with a hundred special forces, they just lack socks on their heads, black uniforms. I see, the name tags were taken off so they wouldn't be identified, but they were taken, so we'll take the pictures... I guess Minister Jocic will know by the pictures who is leading this joint criminal enterprise, this team, and we'll see who these people are, and we're more interested in who issued the warrant. We'll see who's the individual who's supposed to be working at the Ministry against Local Self-Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand that terror over municipalities in which Serbian radicals in power have ceased. There'll be a local election soon. Go to the polls and make sure your lists get most of them. Join all of you, as long as you are, against the SRS. Fight and gain the majority, so rule. This way, if he can't put ballots on the ballots, if he can't force the argument, he can by argument of force. He can't. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again urge Minister Jocic to show the MPs who issued this man's order to do as the "minister against local self-government" has done to say who this individual is, whether she came from the Ministry by chance or picked her up somewhere along the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9236	I thank MP Momir Markovic. The People's Messenger, Nada Kolundzija, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojić, and the People's Messenger Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9237	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really understand your need to react from this assembly payphone to some phenomena you're not satisfied with. I don't think that's something that's illegal, if, on the one hand, the Assembly isn't doing what it's supposed to do, so I'm calling on Article 101 and 104 that we should stick to the agenda. Please, let's talk facts. So a new parliamentary majority was created in Ruma. You can, of course, be against the fact that some representatives of the SRS have left the SRS board club and made a new majority with others. The fact is that they, as you say, took the mandates to you now bothers you, and you didn't mind when our committees in Novi Sad took our mandates and created a majority with you in Novi Sad. At the time, there was no question of whether or not they had the right to do so. So that's where the council majority was created. If there's a legal basis to take away their mandates, it's a legitimate path, and that's what you should do. Please, let's try to do a job here or this is really getting pointless. I don't think there's any need to sit here and listen to a story here all day, for which, if there's a legal exit and a legal basis, we need to find a legal way out and a legal basis. We're not going to solve it politically here in the Assembly. So it's impossible to solve that question here in the Assembly. The issue has its legal basis and should be addressed on this basis. If you think we should just keep talking about it right now, then I don't think it makes any sense to keep working. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is keep working on the amendments. I would also like to say to this occasion, you know that, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, there is no problem that we accept amendments submitted by the SRS, if they correct the text of the law and do not change the very essence of the law. So our approach is often different from your approach, and that's true. When your amendment tries to influence the way we see things to be resolved, then that amendment for us is unacceptable, and not because it comes from you, but because our approach is to establish principles, and what you are objecting to, that we listen to those who suggest that these laws should look, our answer is that we are trying to comply with European legislation. That's where we're very often different. That's the only reason we can't accept your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9238	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9239	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, obviously there is an attempt by the Democratic Party to prevent a debate in parliament on a very important issue. Nearly a million and a half voters stand behind the SRS, which means a million and a half citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is normal for you now to enter 100 police officers from Gendarmeria, in a democratic state, as you say, Serbia, into the Ruma municipality's Assembly, to terrorise the councils and workers working there in that municipality. For the SRS, this is not democracy. If it was necessary to change power and to change committee groups, to form a new power, a new committee group, then it is only done in accordance with the law. In the light of the provisions of Article 226, I ask the question... Mr. Momo, don't argue with Mrs. Kolundji, because Mrs. Kolundji expressed her opinion and her views, which are contrary to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are photos of the police. It's not about one or two officers who intervened. You see a group of police officers breaking into the Room of Rum. What does this look like? In which democratic state can the police come in like this, replace and help form committee groups? We wouldn't be objecting if they weren't founded. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I believe that you, as a decent man, will give an answer, since at this point you are chairing the National Assembly, and I am asking the next question and I am asking for an answer, and you are trying, through the competent authorities, to have the SRS get it. First, who gave a warrant for the use of special forces and police in Ruma, whether they belong to the Gendarmes or to the Order? Who gave the order, the number of officers who participated? There's both audio and video, there's photos. No one can cut the number. Secondly, why was a warrant issued for trespassing into the premises of a representative body? The next question, today, a criminal case has been brought against Nenad Borovic of Ruma, the municipality's public prosecutor in Ruma, for the criminal act of falsifying the document referred to in Article 355, in connection with Article 356 paragraph 1 point 4), in connection with the criminal part of self-authority referred to in Article 330(1). The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question and ask the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to exercise supervision at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Ruma and to give a reply to the Republic Prosecutor's Office – is it done and will the investigation be conducted against the person against whom the criminal charges have been filed? Also, today a proposal has been filed in an executive procedure at the Municipality court in Ruma... He's been seduced by numbers, it doesn't say well here, but since 29 October, he's been admitted... The executive trustee is the Municipality of Ruma, represented by Jezimirović Ljubisa, the executive debtor is Borović Nenad from Ruma, Vuk Karadzic No. 41. The proposal to execute is for the purpose of a temporary measure of confiscation of the seal which has been forged and subsequently used. There's a stamp on the person responsible and responsible, and that means the secretary. This is a crime, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever makes the new seal has to go to jail. Whoever used it has to go to jail. There's a town seal with a competent officer. No one from the county took him. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious matter, this is not to be ignored, this is not party bickering, this is not now the relationship between the SRS and the Democrats, but it is the attitude of the citizens and you, the Democrats. That's the problem. That's why Serbian radicals would never allow this kind of tyranny, self-government and lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9240	The People's Messenger Vlatko Ratkovic, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarović, then the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, and the People's Messenger Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the theme is Ruma. I was talking about the fact and legal situation in the municipality of Rum a while ago. The fact is that in the municipality of Rum, there was a transfer of the political scene, i.e. the creation of a new coalition majority in SO Rum. It's a fact. That fact is not recognised by the president's general population, the fact that the resolved president, SO Ruma Ljubisa Jezimirovic, and his deputy, have been recognizable. Based on SO Ruma's decision, newly elected So Ruma Nenad Borovic and his deputy, Mr. Milan Smiljanic, tried a legal, dignified and civilized way to enter the premises in which they should perform their post, in accordance with the Statute and Rules of Procedure of SO Ruma. That's the first time they've been disabled. When they tried the second time, along with the committees and the parliamentary majority, to take possession of the premises in the same way, they were prevented by violence by individual members of the SRS and the NN faces. Are those NN faces from Ruma or are they from other places, from Zemun or anywhere else, we don't know that. Why did the police intervene the other day in Ruma? It is good that this issue has been raised before the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, certainly the competent ministries will provide a valid explanation on the basis of police intervention, as well as on the conduct of representatives of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, and to carry out acts of the same ministry. Police intervened to prevent violence against anyone, both Democrats and radicals and citizens. I am sure the MPs who asked the question will have an answer, and I still want to say that the reality must be respected, and the reality is that a new assembly majority has been formed in Ruma and that no one can obstruct it. On the other hand, the decisions of the state authorities must be respected. On the third hand, the principle of safeguarding the security of each individual, citizen, councilman, and especially the President of the Assembly and his deputy must be respected. I'm still trying to say, I'm going to end up with this. The council mandate belongs to the councilman. You dear colleagues know that very well. So, are some new New Serbia committee groups being formed now... I have information that this group has been formed and that it has been reported to So Ruma Nenadu Borovic, it is also a reality. So, I don't want to bother the citizens or the MPs, but that newly formed majority is now being DSS, DS, NS and one LSDV. Therefore, the top principle in this country must be respect for the law and respect for the rights of local self-government. I don't want to use this pay phone anymore, as I think some colleagues are using it to promote some pre-election or already some kind of campaign. The situation is quite clear in Ruma, and the answer to the legal basis of police intervention will certainly be obtained from the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9242	I thank MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9243	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am truly surprised by the way the previous colleague spoke. He should approach these problems more seriously, if nothing else because he is the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Committee, and he should know the way some of his predecessors were remembered, that it can be repeated to him. I wish you'd spoken as a lawyer. Unfortunately, you haven't spoken in legal terms, you're inventing others, so in the absence of members of the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure you'd call upon, you're calling for reality, so you say, you have to respect reality, that's fact. So if someone comes along with 100 members of the police then it's a fact, it means they're right on his side. But we haven't heard a single legal argument. So you're saying that some people tried, here, I'm going to quote, I even wrote it down so I wouldn't make a mistake, you say, "they tried to get into the possession of the premises." So, the fact, as you would say, is that they're not owned by these rooms. So reality is different. They tried to enter and take over the premises. How did they do that? With the help of 100 members of the Ministry of the Interior. If it's not violence, then I don't know what it is. Did you call on one single legal act? Did they have a solution? Let's hear what member of the Constitution or law allows the Minister for Local Self-Government to say – well, now you will be the president of the municipality. If there is a dispute, I think it's obvious that there is, then I guess the state body that the Constitution has authorized to settle this dispute and to say which of these opposing parties is right. Instead (this is not only done by the DSS and all other parties in the government, they do so together), there was a representative of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, but there were also 100 representatives of the interior ministry. Those people at the end of the line, I understand why they took off the plates with their names and last names. That tells you as much as they are aware that what they're doing is not good. They're ashamed and disgusted, but they have to work. So the Home Office is so organized, they have to carry out what was given to them as an order. But it's impossible that in an organized state, in a country where some legal order is respected, the government sometimes reacts, and sometimes it doesn't react. When you lose power in a municipality, then the government interferes immediately. When you take power, so here we have the freshest example of the municipality of Rum, then the government says - no, wait for the Constitutional Court's decision. Wait, gentlemen, for the Constitutional Court's decision, you're the one who suspended the Constitutional Court. You can't do that when it suits you to call on the Constitutional Court, and when it doesn't suit you, then it will react directly to the Ministry. I also remind you of article 9. The constitutional law which states: "The election, or appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, will be carried out no later than the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly. "Why wasn't it done? None of you Democrats, that's the whole left-hand side I mean, it doesn't occur to say – people, why we don't have a Constitutional Court. We don't have it so you can do things like this. It's not just Ruma, it's not just Belgrade, there's a number of municipalities. You acted in a similar manner on Starry, you acted in a similar manner in Baraiah. By the end of this week, I will bring you proof of what the Democratic Party Summit was doing in Barajev, in which ways you bought councilmen and what manipulations you are, and we have now established, did before the elections; in the process of running, you have made huge abuses, and that is the top of the DS, and you will get here for a pay phone and evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9244	Thank you. The word is by Dr Zoran Masic, a National MP for the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, member 101 and member 104. Here, by Mrs. Hope Kolundji, lies were made and it was tried to put a parallel between the events that took place in the Parliament of the city of Novi Sad and in So Rum. There's absolutely no parallel there. What is true, I am now also speaking as a councilman in the city assembly, as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group in the New Sad City Assembly, it is true that there the Democratic Party left three committee members and formed its parliamentary group, in accordance with the statutes. Most in the Serbian Radical Party's city assembly, since the start of the constitution of the assembly, has been with the SPS and the DSS. The coalition was reached at the moment of the establishment of the assembly and it and today as such. Therefore, the three committees did not join the ruling coalition, in particular they did not join the SRS parliamentary group. Therefore, absolutely no parallel can be placed between the events that took place in the City Assembly of Novi Sad, where, by their will, three committee members have left that committee group for dissatisfaction and set up a separate group, and in Ruma, where, in fact, the disfellowshipped committee members have joined another party who has now formed a committee group thanks to these defectors. What I want before you national MPs and citizens to underline once more, and what is said here several times, which characterises and highlights the morality of the SRS on the political scene of Serbia, is that the Serbian Radical Party, not in any local assembly, nor in the former federal assembly, nor in this republic, has never been approached by any defector or fugitive committeewoman from another parliamentary group, and has never based on that, the SRS has built the position of government, but has always been thanks to the votes of citizens, thanks to its political power ruled where it has received trust, and where it has not been simply fought for power. We're doing it this time, so I'm asking you to tell the truth about this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9246	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, and then by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9247	Mr. Mrkonjic, as far as the injuries are concerned, they are members of 101 and 104, but I seek to strengthen Article 27 and commend both you and your predecessor for the way the National Assembly is held in order to inform the public in Serbia in a timely and true manner about what is happening in Serbia. I'm grateful to the DSS and DS MPs, but those who follow this transmission need to understand what the tactics are for today. For today, the tactics were to raise the issue of some of our amendments to the DSS, so as not to reach an amendment to Article 180a, where material irresponsibility is introduced for the People's Bank and for all state officials who are doing damage, prompted by some tycoons and who know which white-world hoodlums. But we'll get to that member, we'll talk about the Insurance Act, let the public know what's hiding and what the decorated one has designed. Then the Democratic Party comes in with its election story and demonstrates something I've been trying to do for five years, I haven't done it yet, and now I'm doing very well. As a member of the Democratic Party reports, he demonstrates state terrorism from this pay phone. We heard from Mrs. Kolundji that there was a basis with the police and a basis without the police. You have a basis without the police, so shut up, we have a basis with the police, and that's a real state, there's no regulation, that's reality. She's stronger. Even so, there's my friend Milan, and he's going to explain to us how it's a NATO pact, a 19-gang bar, and we walk into that pub and we're looking for some justice, and then those 19 bandits beat us up. It's Djindjic's time... You'll explain it nicely, I'm glad when you come out to explain how your bandits broke up our country. Very simple and simple. I've been calling you turkeys from the beginning, but now you've gone a little bit higher, now, from the position of revolutionary justice and implementation, you've come to the stage of state terrorism, you're abusing the institutions of the state to carry out your interests, we have total chaos in the state. That's what the citizens see and I convince them, chaos since the Democratic Party came, a democratic option, that's what's destroying Serbia at every turn. Just to remind you what you said about local self-government by 2000 and what you're doing today. I'll get back to you to explain, seeing as some people don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9248	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9249	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, normally, under Articles 225 and 226. I'm amazed how members of the Democratic Party interpret some events. Mr. Ratkovic, may I remind you of an event that took place last year. This is the abduction of the Surcin municipality and then the Democratic Party to the throat was involved in this anti-zaconic kidnapping by members of the DS, whether a complete Surcin clan or a defiled Surcin clan, I don't know, but surely in co-operation with the Surcin clan. Among other things, with the presence of a police station commander in Surcin, the SRS council members in the Surcin municipality were beaten. The day-to-day seal used in the municipality of Surcin is falsified; the original seal is located with former President Rajko Matovic. And you're telling us here about the law and the respect of the law. It's just amazing. We have called you and told you why the Surcin municipality is being kidnapped – because members of the SRS did not want to succumb to pressure and to rename the agricultural land into building land, so that the entire highway and bypasses around Belgrade would belong to tycoons, because of Belgrade's airport, and that the sale of the country would be in the hands of individuals only. That's when I told you that your chairman of the municipal board of PIC Zemun bought about 60 acres, and he says -- not true, he's telling the truth, 130 acres I bought. It's you who stand here for the respect of the law. How can you go out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone and warn us and talk about how the law is done in the Ruma municipality? The criminal report sent says -- not showing any warrant, no court decision or administrative solution has been asked by the Secretary of the Assembly of the Municipality of Rum Dragan Lesic to hand over the seal of the Assembly of the Municipality of Rum. Is that possible? Do you think it's possible in any country that someone should come and ask for a stamp from the secretary of the congregation without showing any paper? Is that law respect? Is that legal? When you didn't get that fake stamp, it was the same as in the Surchin municipality. It's a falsified seal, and you now think that with the help of this falsified seal, you will continue to finish the work you started in the municipality of Rum and in many other municipalities. One more thing, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, take the results of local elections in all municipalities in Serbia. See which party with how many council members entered that congregation and see how many there are today. I guarantee that the largest number of committee members who are no longer on the list of these parties in the SRS. A large number because they did not respect the SRS's programme and policy, because we run politics to implement our programme, not to personally enrich them there, not to enter into internal agreements to make them better. We don't allow it, we don't buy committees unlike you. See how much it cost one councilman now in the Ruma municipality. Look who went and with how much money in the town of Rum, recruited and bought the councilmen. The Serbian Radical Party not only has never worked, it will not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9250	The word has a folk MP, Nada Kolundžija, and then a National MP, Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9251	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we are running a policy to implement our programme and it is not disputed. We stick to our programme and really believe that Serbia's interest is to the fullest extent that this programme is achieved. So this is where it's now being made, so to speak, a double delusion. So, the fact that some councilmen left the SRS committee group is the starting point. Some have left. They made a parliamentary majority with others, elected a new president of the assembly and his deputy. So, until now, it's legal. They are councilmen, they are the parliamentary majority, they are the elected president and vice president. What happens next? Then comes what is not legal, which is that the president of the assembly, which was replaced by a legal, legitimate parliamentary majority, does not give the seal. Can you imagine the situation so that someone doesn't seal? You say it's in Surcin, you take it as an argument, the seal still owns someone and you claim it's legal. So there's a procedure. You can legally prove whether the people who left your council majority and made the new majority corrupt. If they are, it is a crime and it has to be proven, but that you are challenging and saying, we will not seal someone who has been legitimately elected, and then you claim that violence has been committed, the violence here begins. So that's when the violence begins, when someone, after a legitimate decision, thinks it belongs to the president's office and that it belongs to the seal of that same municipality. Gentlemen, there must be a principle in something. If you're unhappy because someone bribed you, bought you, approved your councilmen, then prove it's corruption, but you have no right to claim here for hours something that simply isn't true. So, the truth is that the President of the Assembly and the Deputy President of the Assembly are legitimately elected, that there is a parliamentary majority that supports them, that one who has been removed is not allowed to enter the premises and not to seal. If there is anything that needs to be proved by law, you have our full support, prove by law that someone is corrupt and that this is the result of corruption, but do not abuse this assembly speaker by claiming something that is not true. You have the right to rebel over the people who abandoned you, you have the right to be angry with those who have allowed them to cross over to the other side. That's where your right to talk about it ends. So everything else is legal, except that someone thinks they really need to keep the seal of an institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9252	The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic, then by MP Momir Markovic, and by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9253	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, I really don't think we're going to be able to resolve this issue here today regarding local self-government. This is one violence against the speaker and an attempt not to obstruct, which is a normal form of parliamentary struggle, but a destructive action to prevent a debate on the subject in this assembly. I think Mrs. Nada Kolundzija here said what it was about in the municipality of Rum and any well-intentioned citizen who wanted to really see this problem in general and how it was in line with the legal standards could understand what this is really about. Reporting under Article 104. - The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and that seems to be a matter of truth. There are some things out there that really have nothing to do with the truth. On the other hand, my personal impression, if I can allow myself to speak for this speaker about personal impressions, is that the SRS is obviously having trouble convincing its members into the integrity and rationality of its policy, as well as its committee members, who simply no longer believe in such a policy step out of the Roma parliamentary group and no longer want to support local politics the way it was led in Ruma. It is a problem for the Serbian Radical Party and its election of councilors in some future times, to simply elect party soldiers who will be loyal to them and consistent in implementing the SRS policy during the entire term of the mandate. What's the lie here? First, the truth is when we talk about Novi Sad, it says, a separate group of three DS committee members, who have stepped out of our committee group, a separate group that supports the power of the SRS, has been formed. Look, please, they also stepped forward when a question was raised in the Novi Sad Assembly about them resigning on their parliamentary mandates and replacing DS – because they, as well as the representatives in Rumi, were elected from the SRS list, selected from DS - Boris Tadic – simply it was not possible, thanks to the assembly majority. As it was not possible to change Mr. Radu Marinkov from the DSS, who was excluded from the DSS's decision because of disrespect, and today is Vice-President of the City of Novi Sad Assembly, despite being excluded from the DSS and elected on the DSS list. He also today supports the SRS policy in Novi Sad and despite his fact-finding abandonment of his party, which is kicked out of it, he supports the existing majority. Of course, we don't have any evidence, like you, that we're ultimately judging someone that he's underpaid or corrupt and that's why he left. We really can't claim that. Maybe people have changed their beliefs or they don't believe in the politics they represent anymore. You say here, Mr. Mašić, I'll give him a chance to replicate, he says - none of the SRS has gone to any other party. He's over, Mr. Machine. In Vrbas, two representatives of the Serbian Force Movement -- Bogoljub Karic, moved to the SRS and the SRS parliamentary group. It's one of the false allegations. There's something called morality. We have a moral judgment about some problems when we look on the side; we have a moral attitude about something when we watch what someone else does, and we have a moral act when we get ourselves into a situation. Please bring these three things, a moral court, a moral attitude and a moral act, into agreement when you speak and be consistent with this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9254	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9255	It seems that DS MPs must be told at least four times to understand a thing. Four Roma committee members who were involved have resigned from the council seats and at the first session have been verified, the resignations of the four committees have been established. After that, the leaders of the Roma DS began to buy those dead souls and try to form a coalition. The fact, writtenly found, is that four SRS committee members, former SRS members of the SRS, resigned from Ruma as a committee member, that resignations were established at the assembly session of the municipality and that they were no longer committees. When you couldn't do that, then you went through the system of the Bulldozer Revolution, you just brought the cops here. The fact is that SO Surcin's committees resigned, resignations were verified, and then the police flew in, and with the presence of police, criminals from the Surcin clan beat the SRS. The fact is, it's also a stamp used today by the Sur's forgeries municipality. The seal that's in charge of local self-government in So Surcin is still in possession of today's... You file criminal charges if you think that seal should be turned in, but first we need to clear up who has the majority in SO Surcin. The fact is that Surcin was your graduate work for the kidnapping of Serb radicals-dominated municipalities. Afterwards you set out for many municipalities, after which the cream on your cake was Old Paz and now Ruma municipality. You've come to everything, since you know that radicals in Srem are invincible and that if the will of the citizens is respected, you will never have local self-government in those municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the argument of force into local self-government has been introduced since the DSS, the democratic bloc, realized that the ground beneath their feet is slowly slipping and will soon have to be reduced to minor political parties. So, brains in the head and don't try to beat democracy into Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9256	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, then the National MP Nemanja Sarović, then the National MP Zdravko Topalović, then the National MP Dragan Todorovic, and finally Mrs Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9257	The members are 101st and 104th, but it is now losing its meaning, given that Mr. Stanimirovic is in evacuation, a man escapes, what do we do? What is it, respected viewers and dear citizens of Serbia? It's just that, because they've made it impossible or because of the change in tactics, we don't have a performance called "condom versus cordon" anymore, but "cordon against the people". You've grown a little old, so you've made progress, there's nothing to oppose the cordon, since you've now got the cordons in your possession, so you've pushed the cordons into the first battle line against the electoral will of the citizens. Just to remind you, I've been watching your gymnasiums in the streets, and pots, and pots and all the other means of propaganda, dizziness, confusion of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but it's time to draw the line and take the bills down. So, those who were banging in pots, playing beside the police, calling for state terrorism, became today state terrorists. Against the electoral will of the citizens they hire the police, but how? There's no solution, there's no telling who ordered it, who sent it, so you don't even know who paid for those private buses, but it's important to finish the job. Stanimirovic escapes. He says it's legal. You have the right to be angry, and where is Dragisa Djokovic? Don't you forget something, maybe? Don't you forget Bodrum and Ned Arneric and Pajtic, who hung around here with those cards? That's the DS. So Serbia can, and there doesn't have to be anything in it, but there's got to be this call, this way of thinking, this drop system, it's publicist. Now it's state terrorism. When you see a police officer in Serbia, ask him if he has a yellow warrant, and if he has a yellow warrant, then know what comes next. Democrats can meet at a bar and make a decision and say it – it's the SO decision. I may have made a mistake, Velimir Ilic said a few days ago, as a crown engineer, – DOS made decisions by cafes, so he listed drunks, even swimsuits, and who threw whom out of the bus, out of the truck, out of the vehicle, etc. They should understand citizens, they do other people's dirty work, whether on Cyrillic or Latin, but other people's dirty work. As for these officers you've put in to serve these, remember, there are some who've done and shot on behalf of DS to get apartments, like the one on Meljak, so today we don't have a crown witness to what it is and who did it and whose warrant it is. Serbia is a small country to hide something. You know everything. Come out with arguments in the debate, not with half-truths. Remember, don't take the cordon against the people and the electoral will, and put those condoms on your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9258	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, there are not many DOS MPs who participated in this debate, but it is obvious that no one can indicate what solution it is based on which police (two buses), in the field with representatives of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, tried to hijack the seal in the municipality of Rum. I will take the opportunity to tell you what the same coalition was doing in a Belgrade municipality, or Barajevo municipality. In this case, it is excellent to see what their coalition looks like and how the same people, depending on the phase in which the coalition talks are made, make different decisions. In fact, after the elections in Barajev municipality for a long time, the parliamentary majority could not be formed, and then the purchase of the councilors began. At that time, the Democratic Party was not in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so the initiative was taken over by the DSS and New Serbia. They bought several councilors, but the majority of the Barajevo municipality's Administrative and Mandate Commission had a Democratic Party; of the five representatives, as per the Rules of Procedure, three representatives were from the DS, one from the NS and the fifth was from the SRS. At that point, the worst possible charges, and mostly, from what I hear, were "yellow" against "yellow" and vice versa. The resignations of two SRS and one DS committee have been submitted; at the request of the SRS, the Administrative and Mandate Commission met, determined their resignations and sent them to the Assembly. However, in the next two days, the situation changed a little dramatically, so these "yellow" saw that their "yellow" were the most similar, and the "yellow" saw that they were the "yellow" most similar, so the Administrative-Mandatory Commission, in the same composition (repeatedly, the first decision to establish the resignation was unanimous), met, resolved on the same issue, on the basis of the same documents and made a different decision. The first decision, as you can imagine, is not recognised, the second decision is acknowledged. That's what Mr. Ratkovic would say - factivity, and what the SRS would say - legal violence. We are free to appeal to whoever, and to the Constitutional Court, and to the ordinary court and to any other court, because the papers are undeniable, it is undeniable that the same commission has made two different decisions based on the same documents and that the first one has not been recognised and that the second one has been recognised. I repeat, the majority, three members of the five members are members of the Democratic Party. Come out, if possible, and explain what are the legal principles that have led you and which instances we should complain about in order to protect the rights of citizens of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9260	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, then Zdravko Topalović and finally, I hope, this debate of Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9261	Don't hope for anything in advance, Mr. Grouchy, because if your hopes fail, then what do we do? I'm sorry Mrs. Hope Kolundji isn't here, but I still have some things to do. Looks like you're not worth reading the facts. Look, without showing any warrant, no court decision or administrative solution has been asked by Secretary So Rum... Mrs. Hope Kolundji thinks the president of the assembly is carrying the seal with him. It's nowhere, it was at a time when Mrs. Kolundji was in one of the first parties, until there was no multiparty system yet. That's when the presidents carried everything with them. The seal now holds the secretary of the municipality's assembly, as the secretary of the Serbian Parliament has the seal, not the president of the Serbian Parliament. Watch out, not showing any paper. Does Hope Kolundji think it's enough for someone to come, to have a badge, blue with some yellow circle, and that's enough. You don't need any other document. It's a basic ID, it's a basic document in front of which all doors should be opened. What did the Secretary of the Assembly do? He did what he had to do under the law, and I'm not telling my life to defend that seal, but he did the only thing he could, which is not to seal, because he didn't have any paper. If he'd given that seal, he'd have been held accountable. I'll remind you again of So Surcin. Be careful, the stamp, the original, which was made at the Ministry of Local Self-Government, is still with the president of Rajko Matovic municipality. A dispute is being held whether the takeover, i.e. the abduction of authorities in the municipality of Surcin, was in a legal or illegal manner. When the court makes a decision, then the seal will be returned, nothing is disputed. But you're not waiting for it, you're just not interested in it. You want to do your will. That's your job. What do you care about the laws? A hundred cops on two buses, chasing. Mrs. Kolundjia says the president of the assembly has been legally removed. Let's leave it to the Ministry of Local Self-Government to check it based on facts and evidence to come up with a solution and act according to a solution, not by force. How come you didn't do it in the Belgrade City Assembly? This is about an even more serious offense. Those of the municipality's president, Mr. Ratkovic, who was elected by citizens in the direct elections, are not at all asking the question of his legality and legitimacy, preventing him from entering the SO. Please, is that possible? Imagine now, for example, you are fighting with your coalition partner; they have police in their hands and decide to take Boris Tadic's shift before the presidency and say - there is no entry into the Republic of Serbia's presidency building. What would you do in that case? A man has been elected in direct elections. (The chair of the bell cautions on time. Here, I'm done. Come the members of the MUP and simply say – no. Give me the paper. There's no paper. Make a solution – there is no solution. That's the basic problem. The problem arose, gentlemen of the DS, in 2001 when you started buying MPs in the Serbian Parliament, when you did not have a Constitutional Court, when you first took the parliamentary seats of Vuko Obradovic and his party, so it continued when you threw out 54 DSS MPs. (The chair of the bell cautions on time. Here, I'm done. Well, then those with a stick and carrots, they took your carrots, but they took the stick, so you had to bring them back here. At the time, you had 316 MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The chaos in this country was produced by you in 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9262	I thank Ambassador Dragan Todorovic. The People's MP Zdravko Topalović has the word and then the People's MP Vjerica Radeta and then the National MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Then, if he still stayed with the replica, MP Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9263	Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, regarding the members of the 225th and 226th, I would like to inform the public of Serbia and those uninformed from the ruling coalition that at the last session of the township of Čukarica six council members from Neboja Covic's party have crossed over to the Democratic Party; yes, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija and probably Mrs Kolundzhija was there and there was some bond. Here, let me explain. When the ruling coalition does not act on the members of the MUP, it acts on money. It is very interesting that the 2007 budget rebalance was at that session. Here, to see the citizens of Serbia, and above all Chukarica, where their money goes, as taxpayers who pay their obligations to the state. It means he's going to buy other councilmen. Now there is the DS, thanks to this, one member of the Covic party has already moved to the DS, has an absolute majority and can do whatever it wants. Why? I'm gonna get you back to that case of all the marifetteluks in JP's "business Space" Checkers. So, the director was from Covic's party, and the president of the municipality was Zoran Alimpic, president of the DSS UO. Now, all the evidence, the papers, the upcoming local elections, all the clues need to be replaced and removed, and that's why they're making one such majority, means taxpayers' money, buying, budget rebalancing. It is also interesting to note, last year in the municipality of Kukarica was built on the ground floor an information centre costing 26m dinars, which is about 340m euros per current course. It's a counter joke and can you believe it costs that much. Of course you can't. So, you need to cover up all the marifetteluks, and that's why all over the place, you're using things like that, unfair, buying other councilmen's mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9264	I thank Parliamentarian Zdravko Topalovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know what our people say - who, on what, the army about shortness, and someone about honesty. The Democratic Party has brought its moral stance, moral court and moral act, according to Mr Stanimirovic, to unite and show Serbian citizens through the Thessaloniki affair through the Bodrum affair, by exorcising the DSS parliamentary group. It's just amazing that someone who's done all this has a moral basis to talk from this place or anywhere about any malfeasance, when it comes to stealing the electoral will of citizens. The most difficult theft of the electoral will of citizens took place in the Bodrum affair. I remind you, I asked a parliamentary question and asked Boris Tadic to answer me why he lied in the election campaign that the affair would be resolved in the court proceedings and no proceedings were initiated. Thanks to the nonexistent vote from Thessaloniki, Novakovic or as it is called, from Novi Sad, you remember that the devastating Labour Act has been passed, which has made many Serbian citizens sick; therefore, by forged law, by that vote from Bodrum... Furthermore, the DSS parliamentary group, gentlemen, the "yellow" these "yellow ones" drove out of this parliament, and then they returned on the basis of the court's decision. You remember that famous legal delusion by the professor of the Faculty of Law, Stevan Lilić, by the judicial decision of a proven forger and plagiarist. So, at one point in Parliament, we had over 300 MPs, thanks to... Bosko Ristic is watching me. It is you, colleague Ristic, as chairman of the Administrative Board, because you have remained in the annals known for this period and for these events. When it comes to Ruma, here is a concrete information: Dragan Marinkovic, owner of the company "Farkom" from Šapco, a DS official in Šapco, comes with a gray "audium" in Ruma and he is the one who buys the council members, part of the SRS board, and probably from some others. He tried with a member of the SRS, who is also president of the council of a local community, who is today and will always be a council member of the SRS, means with an honorable man, whom I know he loves to play, to play music; he offered him 2,000 euros in cash and to drive him to Valjevo, to buy him complete music equipment and whatever he needed and what was right for him. Another piece of information about Ruma, I'm finishing up... Gentlemen Democrats, read the Police Act, it says clearly there (and it would be good if Milan Markovic, "Minister against Local Self-Government", read it) that the local self-government building could be entered by police only upon the invitation of the president of the municipality or by the written order of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What you're doing, gentlemen, consciously... Yeah, they need to show the papers, and they'll show up when this criminal report is spoken of. There is indeed a great order of these "yellows" who volunteer for years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9266	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, then the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin, then Srdjan Milivojevic, after the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9267	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the MPs of the SRS say "yellow", "yellow" etc., and especially this "yellow", I don't see it as a pesorative, on the contrary, I feel it with pride, because yellow is the elemental color and it symbolizes the energy of the sun. So, in Ruma, after the meeting of SO Ruma and the election of the new president of SO... I don't know who you're talking about, you've probably mixed up places and regions, I don't know what you're talking about, really, co-worker. So, after the election of the new So President Nenad Borovic and his deputy, Milan Smiljanic, they were prevented from entering the official premises to perform their duties. In that sense, the DS parliamentary group, together with coalition partners, addressed the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government that passed the act, which I do not have with me now but I will show it to you, was delivered to the SO Ruma, was delivered to the parliamentary groups. Under the act, the secretary of SO Ruma was obliged, as he was responsible for the legality of the work of the assembly in the first place, to enable the introduction into possession and surrender of the official seal of SO Rum. After that, violence was committed, and you saw it in the previous video, over members of the DS. I said, I welcome that you have convened a session of the Security and Defence Committee, where you will receive answers based on which police have assisted in introducing and enabling newly elected SO Rum officials to carry out their legal, statute and business obligations. Otherwise, I have information, which should be checked by the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office, that the seal of SO Rum has been used so far and has been used by the former secretary and president of SO, dismissed, Mr Ljubisa Jezimirovic, that the seal is invalid since it was issued by an unauthorized organisation. What I'm trying to say is that in Ruma, I'm going to do it again and I'm not going to go out for a pay phone anymore. I mentioned the word facticity, meaning, the actual state of affairs; this is the act of the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government in which it writes clearly and clearly states that all So Ruma authorities are obliged to enable the newly elected president and his deputy to enter the official premises and carry out the statute and business obligations. Police intervened against no one, precisely because of police presence, not according to DS members or citizens. In that sense, I welcome the fact that the police were present when these officials were introduced into their premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9268	Thank you. The People's Messenger Krstin Milorad has the word, then the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević, and the People's Messenger Dragan Todorovic, and then the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9269	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I cannot help but participate in the discussion, especially when it comes to the municipalities and abductions by the ruling coalition or the ruling DOS. Namely, I come from the Central Bank County, from SO Zrenjanin. In November 2006, temporary administration or temporary measures were introduced in SO Zrenjanin. You see, someone is comfortable today, because these temporary measures and temporary administrations at SO Zrenjanin, although the formation of a new government is said to be the minister, and you know well who the minister of local self-government, from which political parties, that the president of the assembly, and we know from which political parties, will respect the law and call the elections. For Serbian citizens to know, the SRS in SO Zrenjanin had 19 council members. The first party with 10 council members was the Democratic Party. That didn't suit them. It didn't suit them, because they had control, 19 councilmen at SO Zrenjanin couldn't do what they wanted, but now they're doing what they wanted. This suits them. We were convinced that after the formation of this government, however, they would break up with the forced administration and the elections would be called. However, this suits the Democratic Party, because there is the head of the municipality of Goran Knezevic, who claims to be director of the NIS. We understand that, everyone has their ambitions, but, gentlemen, you can't simply disobey the law, that you don't respect the Constitution. You had to and you have to call the elections in SO Zrenjanin, because it's the only way, it's the only possibility that in these elections the SRS won't get 19 more, but it will get 34, as long as it takes to rule the SO Zrenjanin alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9270	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9271	I thank you, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, apparently some have mixed up the assembly hall with the Assembly Hall of the Assembly and acted as if they were in the local parliament. We have here even sharing moral lessons from a party that invented and implemented election theft in the 1990s. I'll just remind the citizens of Serbia, not what's going on in local parliaments, and each of us knows what's going on in local parliaments... I come, fortunately, from a town where the SRS soon had no councilman, and yet now participates in the smallest possible number in that parliament. I want to talk about something else. It is good when someone is in opposition, because opposition is very often the wisdom of the Dalai Lama among many MPs in this room. We're trying to get people who have implemented, invented and patented election theft to teach us moral lessons about honesty, morals, ethics. That's what people tell us about whose political action millions of people stood before the Federal Assembly on October 5, 2000, because the elections were stolen. Here sits CESID's representative very often, Mr Milos Todorovic, and I am very glad that he is here, because an entire organisation has had to be formed to monitor the course and results of the elections so that citizens finally know who won the elections in Serbia. I must point out that DS does not want to participate in this debate, nor does it initiate this debate. We want to discuss those points that are on the agenda. Unfortunately, some people are not interested in it, some are afraid of presidential elections, because their candidate has not finished law school yet, and he is trying to agree with our Maya and see who will be the candidate and who better to lose to Boris Tadic. Of course, I understand the fear of presidential elections, fear is good who knows him. They still haven't recovered from the previous debacle in the election. Now they want at all costs to prevent life from moving forward and better, they want Serbia to stand in place and deal with their local problems, their internal problems. It's a legitimate right of opposition. However, I would like us to deal with the fundamental problems that are making us sit here, to discuss the points that are on the agenda. We're not going to avoid this debate either. There is no problem with us participating in this debate with you, of course, not in your own way, exclusively in the language of arguments and facts, not in the language of accumulated pride, primitiveism, deception or lies. I'd like to point out, the DS doesn't want to initiate this debate, but it doesn't want to be silent when such heavy untruths and accusations are brought to the Democratic Party's expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9272	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just moving to watch some copies try to stand up on two legs. And when they are able to do it with severe torment, then you realize that the difference between physical and intellectual possibilities is enormous and that this process of evolution is still at the beginning. I'm sure the time it takes will do its part and in some ways will make these things even. Until then, it'll be just an unsuccessful attempt, as you've had a chance to see. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to the point. This is about simple stuff. It is the fact that the 100 members of the special units of the MUP broke into the City Hall and did not allow the elected president of SO, in the majority elections, to enter his office, did not allow the head of municipal administration, Mr Milet Kotic, also to enter the Assembly of the Municipality. I don't know how many times to draw your attention to one fact. You're saying the Ministry brought in an act. Here, we accept that. Why isn't this act given to the Secretary of the Assembly? Why didn't they give that act? If the Secretary of the Municipality receives from the Ministry, from the Ministry, he is obliged to respect, in accordance with those orders, or decisions, or acts taken by members of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, or by the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure to comply with the M.O.P.'s orders has a criminal offence. That's what he's responsible for. Did any of the members of the MUP take any action against the secretary of the municipality, unless he executed the order or acted under the act? Let's ask that question. How is it possible for someone two hours to stop them from entering the congregation building without picking up, leaving, and nothing? Ask yourself a question as to how this is possible. They either work by law or they don't work by law. If they're acting by the law, someone has to answer for not following that law. If they didn't work under the law, I don't mean these writings of various acts, which will follow in the meantime, but I am telling you, if it is determined that the members of the Ministry of Local Self-Government have been given orders, we will propose that the Minister of the Interior be replaced because he abuses his position and sends out members of the police, completely unfounded, because before that, the Ministry of Local Self-Government had to take a very precise look at the complete material of the event in SO Rum. I'm telling you again, four SRS council members have resigned. Those resignations were made. The next session accepted their presence as legitimate committees. It's a problem you can't solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9274	The word has a folk MP, Dr Dusan Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Namely, one crucial lie has been made. So in yesterday's referendum on the recall of the Petrovadine Community, the radicals showed all the vulnerability, so the radicals were relievable in Srem, and the radicals suffered defeat yesterday. The Democratic Party announced not only the vulnerability of radicals but also their final disappearance from the political scene in Serbia with its victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9276	The People's MP Vjerica Radeta, then the National MP Milan Avramović, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9277	I've been thinking about giving up my fear of this MP who just said that the SRS is disappearing from the political scene. It's just that something's cutting me off. First, I'd like to read you a message that I just received during the debate. One gentleman, who was in Serbia's government at this time, says: "Let the Democrats read the conclusion from the government's August 8, 2001 meeting, and in which Djindjic's conclusion is in charge of Janjusevic, Tadic and Petrovic to control the spending of a million, in stamps, figures of money, and what money has disappeared in a strange way, and tandem Janjusevic, Tadic, Petrovic. I've got it all on paper." Of course, I won't read the name of the man, but I'll show that paper when he delivers it to us. So, the SRS is trying, primarily for the sake of the public of Serbia, of course, not for you, you are, as far as democracy and honesty are concerned, long-term hopeless cases, but we want to explain to the citizens of Serbia and remind them of how the "yellow thief enterprise" is trying to steal the electoral will of the citizens. What is done, not only in Ruma, which is done in several local self-government, is simply stealing the electoral will of citizens. This being that before this colleague was in this place and which just happened to win at that time in Krusevec in the elections... It was until the moment until the ORK raised a problem against him because he caught dogs after Kraševec and then sold them to the citizens of Kruševec in burgers. That's why his restaurant was closed several times. It is also known for the fact that in Sokobanja, instead of injections, animals have been vaccinated with ordinary water. (Chairman: Veronica, don't, please. Go out and ask for a warning. You from Capca know who he is, who I was just reading. You from Capca are known for your election theft. You know you and your sister stole from the election in Capco. That's familiar. The shabatz appears to have laid down the thieving of the "yellow thief enterprise". You won't be able to make it that fast. You have to do it in order. Mr. Grouchy, I see you're kind. When these "yellows" come forward, you give them your word right away. (President: I am favored to all. ) Slowly, there are days, there are months, Serbia's citizens will hear all the details of the latest thieves of the "yellow thief company" Boris Tadic, who has the hearty support of no less thief, "yellowcastier" company Vojislav Kostunica. If that weren't the case, you'd care to get in the way of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9278	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. I ask the MPs to take care of the insults, it has nothing to do with Mrs. Radet. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, reporting on the basis of article 104. I don't want to quote him, he's a well-known member, but I have to draw attention to these members, the democratic legislators, who are calling us to stick to the subject, to stick to the amendments that we have submitted, which bring forth a series of lies here, are not aware of their own positions and their own words that they say when they come out for this pay phone. I'll just briefly remind Mr. People's MP who's responding, the pay phone that responds to the signal of Crown Street or DS Central and then enters the O.R., brings out what was supposed to be brought out here, and then goes to a nice congregation restaurant for lunch, comes in here full of mouths and gives us a lecture. So, when it comes to moral lessons, are we condemned, Mr. Milivojevic, we, who have stolen the electoral will of the citizens of the 1990s, what did you call it, have we been processed? You've been in power for seven years. Your minister of justice, in this government was the minister of police, in the previous period of the police minister, was any of the MPs, members of the SRS ever punished for that? It's not. Don't be false. You're going back to the '90s most of the time. All you have left in your life are in the 1990s. You thought you'd made it through that year, and you're worse than you were back in the '90s. I'm going to have to remind you of the words you listed from this pay phone, which is that life goes forward. Does life go forward when you bring in two bus militias? Is life going forward when you're having a fight between the DS and the SRS with the Zemun clan? Does life go on when you're mostly referring to a Constitutional Court that hasn't been formed thanks to you? Is life moving forward when the President of the Republic of Parliament is elected for the first time? Did life go forward for three months when you were negotiating who's going where, in which chair, to sit? No, then life didn't exist. Then life wasn't worth it. Now your life is worth it here, when you're given some facts that you don't want to hear. And then on the phone call, you come here, you tell lies. Did life go forward when we chose the president of the assembly, three days and three nights at those night sessions? No, that's when life stopped. Please don't go out, don't call on us for the things you do. Don't stick a label on us that doesn't fit us. Your party implements its ways and arches in a way that is common to citizens, both in local and in Belgrade. That's what you'll see in the next election, not us. It was my duty to remind you to choose the words you speak here from this pay phone and to attribute your words to yourself and not to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9280	I thank MP Milan Avramovic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9281	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I am very glad that the lies of the SRS can never produce an effect that can produce my truth on them. So, today, in the 21st century, it's easy to learn dirty, it's easy to teach savages, I'm a graduate agricultural engineer, it's easy to learn an animal, but it's very hard to teach one who, untrained, wants to teach lessons to others and to show himself as a teacher from this pay phone. It's an impossible mission, Malten. At the same time, certain statements should be commented. Here, Mr. Avramovic answered the word, I'm very glad he answered the word, and he says that in their time life had one price and value, I think 100,000 were paid for the murder of Ivan Stambolic in Frusco Mountain in their time, so 100,000 was worth the life of the President of the Republic. And reminds Serbian citizens that at a time when the SRS was in power in Frusko Gora, not far from Ruma, Ivan Stambolic was buried. At the same time, Mrs. Verica Radeta went out for this pay phone and said that I have a restaurant where I serve dog meat. My duty as a citizen of Kruševec is to protect the interest of the city from which I originate. Mrs. Radeta, there's no such thing as a dog eater in Kruševec. There are serious and responsible people living in Kruševec who know what's good for food and what's not, and they know more, Mrs Radeta, what's good when they have to vote and what's not good, so they vote for DS and don't vote for you. At the same time, I'm surprised that you now have a problem with my restaurant, I didn't want to bring it out for you, there was no tribune in the Kruševec SRS without Mrs. Verica Radeta coming and eating at least ten burgers; the last time she ate 35. Here, I have a fiscal account. And the beer box was drinking. He had to have the president of the Committee, who's a vulcanizer and is involved in the introduction of heating to break down the doorway with a "South" to get it in. Now you're not good at my burgers, and they were good for you. And Momir Markovic's not good for my burgers, we couldn't get him out of my restaurant. So, I really didn't want to say this, but the fact is, I have to answer it this way. I say once again, nice, cultural and educated people live in Kruševec. We know what is for food and what is not for food and what is for voting and what is not for voting. I ask you to speak of my city with all due respect, for the town of Kruševac has repeatedly hosted you properly. Do not insult the citizens of Kruševac with statements that they are some primitives and savages who eat dog meat. The Krushebs are proud, congratulating people who know what's right and what's wrong and know how to distinguish right from wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9282	Fifty-seven MPs reported on the Rules of Procedure, in different ways. This debate has turned into a circus today. I am ashamed to chair a parliament where debates like this are held and things like this are said. It's all your fault, and you're all responsible for it. Now we're gonna stop this debate. We'll continue at 3:00. I'd like to inform you that today we're going to be working until the end of this agenda, whenever it is. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic, then MP Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic and then MP Vjerica Radet reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing whether there was a document or not, whether it was the prince's dinner, whether the minister against local self-government had sent a document to the Assembly of Ruma Municipality. I have this paper, which does not represent a document, does not constitute an act, does not constitute an order, does not represent anything, but in that paper, the minister against local self-government says - it is indisputable that at the 28th session of the Assembly of Ruma, held on 12 September 2007, after opening the session, the president of the Assembly, Dr Ljubisa Jezimirovic, found that the representatives of Ružica Divinić, Snezana Brkic and Ozren Bojic had resigned to the duties of the board, and that they agreed to Article 45, paragraph 2. The Law on Local Elections suspended the mandate of the MPs in the Assembly of the Municipality of Rum. To avoid the dilemma, the resignation of Parliament of the Municipality of Ruma Ružica Divinić, the resignation of the Parliament of the Municipality of Ruma Ozren Bojic, personally signed the resignation of the Parliament of Ruma Snezana Brkic. When he's born, he can swing it. Ladies and gentlemen, the council has resigned, resignations have been established. To remind you Democrats, resignations are not being discussed, resignation is being found and resignations have been found at the meeting of the Assembly of Ruma, before the change to the agenda. Which in the meantime, you came up with the idea that, if someone was once a councilman and resigned, they could be a boardman again if you choose to show him that trust, ladies and gentlemen, but in the next election, so when new committee lists are formed, so when you determine how little you will, however little, but how many parliamentary mandates you will have. According to local elections, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, according to all applicable law of resignation adopted and mandates are entrusted to the following from the list selected by these committees, which means from the list of SRS. You have three citizens there, two citizens and a citizen, who are declaring representatives of the Assembly of Rum. Besides, it's not your first time. Here, Mrs. Verica Radeta said that you had 312 MPs in this assembly in your time. He can't, ladies and gentlemen. These resignations have been established, the mandate-immunity commission has come up with a solution on this issue, and you have no three committees. And if he can't do it legally, then he can do it with the police. Well, it can't be that way. I warn you to return to respecting the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll get back to you, Mr. President, because I'm not done. What you said you were ashamed of, believe me to belong to your political party, and I'd be ashamed of what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9285	National MP Lovrin-Gavrilovic Daniela gave up. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9286	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the afternoon part of this Parliament's work, a lot of questions have been raised here, a lot of things have been said, a lot of nonsense, a lot of things that are completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The chairman has not responded, and it only gives me the right to act in the same way in this afternoon's work. First of all, for the sake of the public, to remind the fact that the SRS is proud of the fact that we have never stolen anyone's votes or MPs or parliamentary mandates. We are the only party in Serbia that has never done this to anyone, and we have all been stolen from the Socialists to today's ruling parties. Of course, it's not your right, but it's just something you use, it's your thing, we'll never reach out to such things. Mr. Dulic, you said you were ashamed to chair the parliament. In addition to being ashamed, I say to you that you can't do it and it would be best to inform Mrs. Sonja Licht that you are no longer able to do it, to say it nicely - Aunt Sonja, I can't and to choose well someone who is able to lead this parliament. And by showing, the way you showed your anxiety in the morning, Mr. Dulic, is inadmissible for the president of the National Assembly. It is said here that radicals, because they were in power, participated, or that someone had received 100,000 marks at that time for the murder of Ivan Stambolic. I ask the man who said this: how much, that is, the entire Democratic Party of his, how much money did you get, how did you divide them because you killed Zoran Djindjic, because you were in power at the time Zoran Djindjic was killed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9287	Mrs. Radeta, your question is really incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9288	Mr. Dulic, I'm pulling a parallel between what I heard here this morning. So if whoever was in power is responsible because someone was killed at the time, then DOS is responsible for the murder of Zoran Djindjic and I ask DOS who is directly responsible, how much money you got and how you divided them, ladies and gentlemen. As for some burgers and some food, it seems to me that this gentleman mostly fed his party colleagues, since I see they began to cut and many began to bark.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9289	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9290	I refer to Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure and it concerns the legislator of this law, and it can also be interpreted as a proposing representative for this agenda. Let me remind you, there are amendments and additions to the Insurance Act on the agenda. I have learned that the special prosecutor's office has received a report from the interior ministry's special group on the fight against organised crime on a criminal organisation that was committed within the framework of insurance, Mr. Minister, so it has nothing to do with Djindjic and these other things, but it is related to insurance, and that report has been covering the period since 2000. As far as I'm concerned, it affects all those about whom all the newspapers have been writing for years how young, beautiful and successful they are. Although, there's Labus, he's not that young and successful, but he's at the head of the group. As far as I'm concerned, this anti-organized crime prosecutor's office is due to initiate proceedings these days. You probably recognize that there's quite enough reason to stop, even for a moment, with a debate on this agenda point, that the minister gets the right information whether what I said is true. It doesn't take a month, it takes two minutes, just a phone to turn around, to see if I've told the truth or maybe, by who knows which time, I'm too early and it turns out it's true later. Of course I wasn't wrong, you know it well, because I never take unverified things out of a congregation pay phone. It would be very illogical to continue to vote on some of the provisions of this law that you have proposed, which would in some way prevent criminal proceedings against an organised group. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, that one of these issues of interest and repair of prison, back in the day, and there are some premiums and some secured sums of some, privileged, when Mr. Labus is with his encrypted firm... (Miljub Albianic, from the post: Leave Labus. Mr. Dulic, treat this as a replication report. I was just surprised, it rained out as soon as Albianic came in. He can't go on the streets. That's the democracy we got. So, Mr. Dulic, there are a lot of reasons why it would be good for the minister to carry out proper checks, so that we know in the follow-up what we're actually discussing, because this is how I get the impression that everyone is complicit -- in what; in something that the other half of the government thinks is a crime. That's why it would be good if we stopped, if the minister checked, came out here, said, and if there's a basis to keep working, and if we don't break up, until the crime issue is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9291	The word has an MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9292	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, instead of discussing amendments and the Insurance Act, a debate was imposed on something called behaviour in the Serbian Parliament. This behaviour in the Serbian Parliament can be called crime at the highest level, which will be given an opportunity at tomorrow's session of the Finance Committee to meet fellow MPs, the public, journalists and all others. In this country, dear citizens, there is no more credible document coming out of this government, which you can trust, like the one from which you can get information about how people's money is being collected and how that money is being spent. This financial crime, which is called illegal collection, regardless of what is prescribed by the laws, such as the one on privatisation fees, such as the Party Finance Act, is actually used in this home for the mutual accounting of parties involved in the ruling coalition. Gentlemen, Mr. Finance Minister, instead of talking here about the amendments and additions to the Insurance and Conceptial Differences Act, about whether there should be a privatisation here at the Washington Consensus, you will be able to give us a report on why over 23 billion dinars, which the previous minister did not include, and you had to, which is why we came from the surplus to something that would be a deficit. You will have to explain to citizens who is obliged to collect the money the Treasury Administration collects as source revenues when it pays them and to whom and to provide Serbian citizens with answers who will be responsible for the illegal spending of state money. What I'm trying to say here is, the memorandum that you delivered to us through "the official messenger" is also full of false and false information about what a social product is, what public spending is, what of that money goes on to support citizens who are at the poverty line, and which is why you and your friends, whose world powers have recognised their right to be somewhere on the periphery of the world's oligarchy, can spend your citizens' money. You know perfectly that for these remarks that seem in principle, there is concrete evidence of how companies are taken over, how mergers and separations are committed, how consultants are paid and stimulated, legal offices, all those financially elected advisors, who allow you to commit a supreme crime that will remain unpunished, and in one sentence is called this way - all people have the right to freedom, to human freedom, to religious, racial and ethnic equality, and the supreme right that allows everyone to live decently from their work has been taken away from them by your government, because it annuls the fundamental human right, which is that they can live from their work. Namely, instead of providing jobs for the citizens, to whom you have listed your campaigns and election promises to expect jobs and wages from which they can live, you are in fact the world oligarchy, which has received you into that upper, outer courtyard by allowing you to participate on some round table, by allowing you to buy certain rewards for a crime against your people, conduct what you call financial policy or structural reform. There's no such high-priced words that seem like cover for what you're doing. I claim from Sartid, the trustee of Duferk, one of the largest court disputes, to what is called a malfeasance with cash registers, that someone will answer. You oblige us to, instead of a legal project that we need to talk about today, prepare documentation that, I don't believe in in front of these few honest people in the judiciary, but someone very soon will be processed, when those who are in charge today will exercise power and work in the interests of the people where they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9293	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I point to a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and I am motivated to go out for this pay phone precisely because of what happened during the afternoon, which the citizens could also follow because of certain assessments that were heard from the highest place from here, which is from the seat of the President of the Assembly. Mr. President said he was ashamed of the debate that was under way during the afternoon and then interrupted the debate. A move that, seen like this from a practical point of view, is in place and justified and has nothing to object to. However, we need to get things straight again. What is happening in the congregation is a reflection of what is happening in our society. It's a picture of what's happening in society. If I'm allowed to caricate now and maybe be too sharp, I'd feel free to say that there's chaos in society. Why did Serbian radicals today advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and why did they seek information that is important to the citizens of Serbia at this time? It's precisely because so far we haven't had on the stage that what's called trade in parliamentary mandates, which is certainly something that is dishonest, and where you can certainly find the least reason to resent such a thing with Serbian radicals, has become culmination. You today have in 10 municipalities of Serbia an illegal situation, where administrations are imposed past the will of the electoral citizens of Serbia, you have in Belgrade a violation of both the Constitution and the legislation and, of course, something that is Ruma, a culmination that you now have the forced use of force by police to end national will. It's called tyranny for a short time. We've been explaining behind this pay phone what's the problem. In Ruma, three MPs resign without delay, after those resignations have changed their minds and a new parliamentary majority is being established and then, what happens, you have police intervention and it is anti-zaconite, and that is using the police in an inadequate way and it is a tyranny in the country of Serbia. In the country of Serbia, families disappear, be liquidated, not for the first time, you saw in the press a few days ago that the entire family was liquidated at a very short time, and it keeps repeating it. The police will intervene, protect the theft of illegal votes, and that's the problem. I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, and I'll continue the discussion later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9295	The session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take place today, on 29 October 2007, starting at 1600 hours, in the building of the National Assembly, in the Blue Salon. Since everyone has reported to the Rules of Procedure, we will proceed in a row, so that one MP will receive word from each member of Parliament, so far as we get there. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic appeared, and then the People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, and then the MP Milos Aligrudic, and then from G17 plus someone, and then we will see further. There'll be a list, don't worry. Mrs Radeta, since we have exhausted the list of MPs Nebojsa Stefanovic and Momir Markovic, that is, Momir Markovic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, and then moves in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9296	So, the list, everything on the list, as it comes to order. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read you the reasons for the resignations of these three councilmen from So Rum. He says so - the resignation is submitted by Ruzica Dinic, I resign because of a health problem that prevents me from exercising the rights and duties of the councilmen legally, neatly and in good time. So, Ms. Ruzica Divinic resigned because of her illness, and then when the jaundice caught one part of the municipality of Ruma, then she recovered and decided to join the new council group. Meanwhile, the resignation was established by the Administrative-Immunity Commission, meanwhile, after the opening of the session of SO Ruma, the president, before the move to the agenda, so he opened the session, found the number of present, established the agenda and before the move to the agenda, found the resignations of the three council members. And, look at the wonders, they remembered that there would be some kind of interspace in which they would be able to sew. And it might all be petty, so it's not so important, if the entire Ujdurm included the Ministry of State Administration against local self-government, and until Mr. Minister corrects the injustice that has been done, I mean 11 municipalities where for a year the temporary measures are, I mean, the City of Belgrade, where natural law has taken place. So the mayor died. Within 15 days, the president of the assembly was obliged to call the elections. These elections have nothing to do with those unless there are elections in the next six months, as well as those six months of famous ones, six months are counted until the end of the term. Says the minister against local self-government -- it is undeniable that these resignations have been challenged by the appointed committees. When? When were the resignations verified? When it has been established in the Assembly that they have resigned, the term of office ends at that moment, the part of the second ends with them, and they can only be candidates in some new elections. In another party, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9297	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic appeared, and then the National MP of Nada Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, we had in the morning part a story about some food, about burgers, about things, and it is natural for people to be thin or grown from time to time, depending on how much they eat, however, it has been characteristic of representatives of the Dossov authorities since 2000 that when they are grown, they are grown exclusively by millions of euros, and that is to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia. So, I don't know who's there, I know what's wrong with the citizens of Serbia. We'll be reminded of some of the worst criminal affairs of the Dosov authorities since 2000 and so on. Let's say the Sartide case, here's a colleague of the DS agreeing with me and earning that it's a shame that such an affair was happening and it's okay with that. The robbery of Serbia's state and its citizens in the Sartid affair in 2003 began when the company, with its six subsidiaries, "White Lims" from Sapac, "Stara Jelizara" from Smedereva, "Veljko Dugsevic" from Kučev, "Spin d.o.o.", "Luka Smederevo" and "Free Zone", sold to the Ju-es-style for $21.3m, although only the value of Sartide parent company's capital was estimated at 57.62m euros. The value of the entire company at the time of sale, along with all dependent companies, ranged from 200m to 300m euros. The privatisation system, which assumed the direct arrangement system, was obviously designed only to get someone from the government at the time to take a commission. The Airport affair, former DS Transport and Telecommunications Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, was arrested on 23 November 2004, and released after one day for the total theft of state money at an airport estimated at more than 18m euros. You have stolen so much daily from the citizens of Serbia, and it is unfortunate that such people have been able to become the bearers of the highest state functions. To remind citizens, between March 2003 and April 2004, the year-on-years were bought at the price of 43,000 dinars, regular coffee spoons 850 dinars, and images for the equipment of the VIP salon, costing 1.5 million dinars, were paid eight million dinars. Under this salon, it is paved with a Brazilian marble, which is extracted beneath the surface of the sea. The Brazilian ambassador who came to Belgrade's airport for the first time ever saw that Brazilian marble at our airport. Because of these and these criminal affairs, Serbian citizens will severely punish you in the first of any subsequent elections and show you where your place will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9299	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Nada Kolundzija, then Milos Aligrudic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9300	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal again and beg that we try to do what we are here to do. So we have agenda points here that are important. As much as they disagree on the way we solve them, they are important to the citizens of Serbia, as well as those topics that await us. We are awaiting ratifications of laws that are important for facilitating the visa regime, which is the interest of Serbian citizens. The laws await us and we have proposals for Serbia's Constitutional Court. We all underline that this is extremely important and those who think we've been waiting too long should now do everything to wait for it as soon as possible. So, it is our interest that the sooner they come to the agenda of the Constitutional Court law and come to the agenda of the proposals. We can open local topics here and we can ask for some disputes to be settled, but we can't resolve them for this assembly speaker. I ask you best, let us resolve them where they belong, in institutions where these problems and these issues are resolved. One more thing, therefore, we here hear about affairs and MPs coming out individually and citing various cases, calling both what they are and what is not an affair. Our goal is not to go back in time. If this is an affair that you're talking about, I'm asking you what tens of thousands of square miles of lost space has been inhabited by Serbs for centuries. I ask what, in the political dictionary, is measured, hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their homes and everything they have acquired for generations. I ask what in political terminology is the isolation of the country, the collapse of the economy, what are pyramid banks, the robbery of Serbian citizens, billions of euros taken out of this country, countless people who have lost the property they have, what is it in political terminology? If you want us to open these topics, and we're not going to open these topics, then we're going to list for days and ask what it is that has to do with the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9301	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic and then MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared, and then MP Suzana Grubjesic, and then MP Borko Ilic, and then MP Milan Vukovic. You're all on the list and everyone's gonna talk today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9302	I see there are many who have applied for the Rules of Procedure. My reason is under Article 104. I'd like to remind you one more time: either this is a debate show for RTS, for which there is time, I have a questionnaire tomorrow night, and there are other shows and there are other shows on national televisions, or this is the Serbian Assembly, mostly. I think this is mostly the Serbian Parliament, the National Assembly, and I would ask that we return to what is the topic of the agenda, respecting all possible reasons to present anything. I've never been against it, nor can I be against it, but in the end I can appeal, I can pray. I have a right to do that, and I can't take that right away from me. I ask you to go back to the topic of the agenda, because if this is not the case and if the speakers after me, despite these two appeals you've heard, continue to open ten different topics that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda, then the MPs of the DSS and New Serbia will report in the same way as the Rules of Procedure, but by discussing the topic of agenda and amendment. If anyone can abuse the Rules of Procedure by discussing what is going to happen, then let us, too, use it by talking about what is on the agenda. We'll report to Article 104, we'll open up the law, and we'll read what's in the law, which is in the amendment, and we'll comment on it, and that's how it'll go. I just don't see any other way to express a protest against a conversation that's from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. We take part in this ourselves, we express political views, and I think it's legitimate. We've been doing it for half an hour, an hour, an hour or two, but simply, my people, they can't all day. If you continue like this, everyone from any party, I'm telling you that the DSS and New Serbia will use their right to talk about the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9303	Thank you. Now for the first time, I appeal that after Natasha Jovanovic, we stop reporting to the Rules of Procedure and continue to work. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9304	I'm reporting from article 95. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic, because all MPs at one point reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that is their legitimate right. But I have to go back to last week's events when I chaired, the moment Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic left the presidency post, and you weren't there. I've suggested even a fairer way than you are right now, analoguely to Article 95, although I'm not complaining about what you're doing right now, I've already told you at the chair table. Then all democracy in action was shown by Mrs Kolundzija, and Mr Aligrudic, and other MPs from the DSS, DS, New Serbia and G17 when they left the hall because they did not respond to what the Serbian Radical chaired. Arshin was the same and much more democratic way and access to the problem that was created at that time. It's you and that's how citizens respect you and respect you. I want to warn you now that the state situation is alarming in all segments. Unlike you, Mrs. Kolundjia, who just spoke total nonsense, and you know, my stomach really rolls over when a traitor like you, and a whole traitoric click tells me a story about the loss of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9305	Miss Jovanovic, I give you my first warning because you have offended the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9306	You can give me a warning, Mr. Dulic. But while these deserters of yours were hiding under women's skirts, Serbian radicals and millions of Serbs were defending Serbian countries. Therefore, I will not stand for it, and I will not allow it, in a situation where the five-year president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who fought politically with the largest party in Serbia, is what hurts you, you will never be like Serbian radicals, who fought to preserve Serbian territories... I'd like to ask you to tie this retard up or do something, I'm going to ask you for real.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9307	Mrs. Jovanovic, you have another minute in the Rules of Procedure, I really ask you to adjust your speech to the fact that you are the Vice President of the Assembly, that you stand by the assembly speaker, so that you will not be offended, because your insults will only cause others to react and then the Assembly will turn into a circus, and nobody wants to be here. Here, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9308	They are no insults, these are historic, from a new history of proven fact, that we have defended Serbian territories, that half a million exiled Serbs, along with Mr. Buh, who is the president of the Republika Srpska government in the refugee country, cannot go back there. And the fact is, Mr. Dulic, that you led anti-Serb, anti-state policy, and that you sold for a handful of dollars to Americans and Western forces to break up Serbian countries and kill the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9309	I give you a second warning, Mrs. Jovanovic, because you have offended the People's Messenger. The People's MP Suzana Grubjesic, then MP Borko Ilic, then MP Milan Vukovic, then MP Laslo Varga and then MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9310	Mr. President, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which we should stick to, says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I really don't know where we are and what's on the agenda today. I understand the MPs whose problem is most important today, but we cannot solve this problem here today. We can't solve it at all in the National Assembly. I sincerely hope that every local self-government will solve the problem it has. Today, I'd like to say that if we don't finish in time, we won't be able to start a session on visa relief and readmission. This is something that is very important to a huge number of our citizens, because visas will be obtained for dozens of categories of our citizens, who are waiting and expecting us, the people's representatives, to ratify this agreement as soon as possible. It's the 1st of November. I'm afraid with this kind of work and this kind of dynamic, we're going to break that deadline a long way, and just as of January 1, 2008, visa relief, what we've been fighting for, and what we're expecting, it won't be possible to apply. So I urge you to go back on the subject one more time, to process the amendments that we have left. I suppose the applicants of the amendment felt it was important to write them and defend them from this assembly pay phone. Let's give it a chance at least to the people who tried to write the amendments so that they could explain the amendment from this pay phone, and even in the day of voting that we can plead on those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9311	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borko Ilic called. He's giving up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Vukovic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, given that the current Agenda Insurance and Amendments Act, which are submitted in that part, I would really say that probably, as the Legislative Committee predicted, that amendments are all legally possible, but that the Government does not accept them, that at this point (Zoran Krasic: which member? )......................................................................................................... Article 104, Mr. Krasic, since you are the star of TV all these days, 17 days of the October session, and since you insult me as an MP. Since you are insulting me, you are insulting the Assembly and do not earn from the place, for I will ask the chairman to punish you. I don't bother you when you're talking from this pay phone. You've studied knowledge. Since there were representatives of the SRS here who explained that when they chaired, that the Assembly even worked, it was the same as in the Andergrund movie when the monkey entered the tank and then the disaster was declared. But to tell you one thing, the Insurance Act, which is absolutely correct in European integration, amendments are legally possible. Given that the Government does not accept these amendments, I urge you to focus on the discussion of the amendments and that every dear colleague of the amendments he has submitted explain, to remain in the position of either being reasoned or proposed to adopt, and to return to the basic discussion. Insulting, above all, the individual MP and then the entire assembly, I think it is neither wrong for all citizens of Serbia, regardless of who they voted for, nor is it okay for this highest legislative body such as the Serbian Parliament. I think there's a lot of reasons to replicate the previous discussions, which is why I've reported myself to you as an MP and for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I am very happy to give the microphone to someone if they feel that a story should be kept in the sense of the Rules of Procedure rather than in the sense of the law that is on the agenda today. I'm really asking you to continue today's meeting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9313	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9314	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 105(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the second day of the last two weeks when the position also obstructs the work of the National Assembly. I don't know if anything like this has happened in any serious country of the world in the last 50 years. Last Tuesday, MPs of the ruling post also left the session at one point, and afterwards, State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister said that all MPs who left the session had left the session for the reason that Ms Natasa Jovanovic chaired the session. Since it did not give a word in order to report to the Rules of Procedure, we MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as well as MPs of the Vojvodjanski MPs, for this reason we left the session, but for the reason that we wanted to protest because the position itself obstructed the work of the National Assembly. Today, unfortunately, this is happening the same way. Have you, Mr. President, seen a congregation anywhere in the world in which members of the ruling parties appear in the rules of procedure and thus obstruct the work of the assembly. This seems normal in Serbia, and I don't think it is in other countries. Just to draw your attention to what's going on, say, in Serbia today. Instead of sending a delegation to the Ministry of Agriculture to negotiate with farmers, the government of the Republic of Serbia is sending Gendarmeria to protest farmers. Unfortunately, it seems to be normal at this point in this country. It seems, of course, that this behavior in the congregation is unfortunately normal. So, Mr. President, I invite you to start doing your job. At this point, interrupt the session of the National Assembly, and then establish order so that MPs who wish to discuss on the basis of the Rules of Procedure may work in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9315	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic and then MP Vladan Vukicevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9316	Mr. Dulic, in good tradition, I always say at first which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. I'm reporting for breach of Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Knowing that whenever radicals come for this pay phone, you first say, which member you are calling for, and from where I reminded you that even the predecessor from your party should say at least which member. This anxiety shows, apparently, that before his arrival in the National Assembly, he was with the one on the burgers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9317	Mr. Krasic, can you tell me, when it comes to Article 136, what's been broken here? Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9318	Now, Mr. Dulic, I can't wait for someone to ask me that question. (President:Here you go. ) You see, Mr. Dulic, Article 136 is injured because when you look at Article 2. Proposal for a Law, Article 25. The bill, the argument, you'll see that there's something wrong with reason. We need a minister to explain who put this together for him. In order for you to understand it better, I can't wait, for days I've been waiting for someone to start asking questions, here, first run by the president of the Parliament. You see, Article 25, that's what Sonja Licht didn't teach you, it belongs to the so-called Sonja Licht. the transitional and final provisions for the application of the law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, and it reads: 'Articles 1 and 2 of this Act (means amendments and additions, not basic texts) are applied at the end of five years from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation... ''Now you read what it says in Article 2, there is no reassurance practically in the country. Someone has to explain to us here, not the trala-la stories about how someone used to be in power, so you were in power back then. Where was Perisic, in whose government was he the Minister of Information? Who was he building a Djindjic coalition with in 93? Where was Djelic in 92, whom he was an adviser to, Vojislav Seselj or was he an adviser to Milan Panic? About Labus, about their wives not to talk. Don't twist the truth anymore. Get out here and talk about the law. You don't want to talk about the law, because you need to cover everything up, so you don't see it. What if you didn't see it? Robbery. That's why this debate doesn't suit you. Mr. Dulic, that's why it takes Cvetkovic to come out, not only to sit here and smile, he doesn't care, rubs his hands, complete privatisation, steal money with these, etc. No, it's to go out and say what it says in Article 2, what it says in Article 25, why it's wrong to delete it. It's being erased because it's not normal. Practically, Article 2 no longer exists, and it regulates resecuritisation. No, you give over B 92, you give over other trolleys, songs, everything's good, you're cultural, we're primitively simple, you're very good, you want the world, nobody wants us. Since you've come to power, you've had no dog to bite us for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9319	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic and then MP Milojub Albianic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9320	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 103 and 104. Since this morning at 10 a.m. when she started, this congregation hasn't moved since the beginning. It's just amazing that serious people, who need to do good for their country, have this attitude towards their country and citizens who chose them. We've all heard all kinds of nonsense here since this morning. I didn't come out individually to criticize anyone, but if we want Serbia's citizens well, and we swear, whenever we go out here, that we want them, this certainly isn't an appropriate way of discussing, nor is it a solution to the problem for the citizens of Serbia. We hear here some fucks running away from some parties and going to other parties. What, brothers and sisters, have you taken these fuckers into your ranks if they run from your ranks? It is every individual's right, so he was an apostle, whether he was or was not in one party. But the republican parliament does not resolve the issue. On the other hand, it is clear to you that people have been elected under the previous system, that the parliamentary mandates belong to these people and that the party cannot manage their mandates. That's not the problem with this assembly, nor the citizens are interested in what's going on in Ruma, what's going on in some other local congregations. The 31st session should begin very important for Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens with expectations, with a longing to make it easier for the visa regime. You are aware that this session will not be able to begin. You know that by the 1st, that law must be passed. If that law is not passed, that question will only be resolved there after spring and autumn. Gentlemen, you're holding back the intellectuals, you're holding back the businessmen, you're keeping young people from coming out, you're holding down scientists, so you're making it impossible for people to get out of the country. Serbian citizens will see for themselves who is holding back. I haven't told you about any party, but with their own attitude and behavior, each party will have participation, with its own actions, in preventing citizens from coming out of this country. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time we get serious as humans. We didn't come here to talk about what was backwards and what kept us as individuals, but to really do it in the interest of those who chose us, which are citizens of Serbia. So let the citizens of Serbia assess who is holding back the progress of this country, and I believe that a few million people are watching this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9321	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope it's clear to everyone now. This is where the heads of the parliamentary groups of the ruling Nad Kolundžija coalition, Milos Aligrudić, Suzanne Grubjesic, addressed and made it clear to everyone that we want to, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of what we are doing, on behalf of the citizens, so for what we are doing, to continue on the agenda and to consider amendments to existing laws. It was heard here by opposition representatives: no, the ruling coalition doesn't want that. It won't be. Perhaps you want the ruling coalition not to speak a word in this congregation. You won't get that. So, there must be clear cross-breeding arguments for this assembly speaker. It is a place, but to say what the Rules of Procedure says, what's on the agenda. You have a situation where the message was sent to you by the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups: we want to work on the agenda. In favour of the inaccuracy of the previous claim, I had the opportunity to hold the presidency, when MPs of opposition parties appeared only in the Rules of Procedure all day and to terminate such a session. We have a similar situation now. So we want the Rules of Procedure to throw away something that is not parliamentary and assembly work. We cannot allow that, for the dignity of all the MPs here. The word of the ruling coalition is: we want to work, we want to work under the Rules of Procedure, we want to work in accordance with the agenda. Also, we are expected to have important things, such as visa relief, and our people are waiting for the day to come to travel. So, let's continue on the agenda. That would be a good parliamentary practice. We also had a chance to watch the debates in the Rules of Procedure in the afternoon and afternoon, when the greatest congregation attendance was. It is, in a way, politically justified, because people want to turn politically to their citizens, to their voters. But this has gone beyond that line and beyond that measure. Is it possible that we can't process five amendments one day, because 15 minutes has a parliamentary group per amendment? Some say, "I'm sorry, but we have seen that some MPs from the ruling coalition appear on the amendments." You want to deny us the right to say a word about that amendment? So I think it's perfectly polite to talk about amendments, about what's on the agenda, and to show that we're ready to work in a good way for all of us here in the Assembly, but above all for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9323	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Daniela Gavrilović-Lovrin, then MP Goran Cvetanović, then MP Borko Ilic, then MP Nikola Novakovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9324	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and regarding the presentation of Mrs. Radeta. The lady mentioned earlier today, for the second time in her presentation, said that I had stolen the election. For the sake of the public, it is my duty to tell the Serbian citizens that I have been president of the Municipal Election Commission in Sapac since 2002, that we have, in contrast to the times, been radicals, when you participated in the conduct of the elections, had representatives and other political parties, therefore, representatives of the SRS, that none of my colleagues in the Municipal Election Commission had any single objection to my work, including representatives of the SRS. You, gentlemen of the radicals, can check it out if you want. What Mrs. Radeta says is that I stole the election, so she knows that I'm a thief, but she doesn't know what I'm calling myself, but says a MP from Capca, she can't hit me personally because, gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals and citizens, I know that in life I didn't take another person's dinar, to live very modestly, that unlike you, the MPs of the SRS, I pay the electricity, I pay the apartment, I pay the communals, not the wars, because I have a big salary and I'm not like you MPs of the SRS, who, in addition to your fifth term, fourth or who already knows what term in the Assembly, are asking you to pay the municipal services to the wars and that 6,000 dinars to pay you for six wars. Yes, it's you, the MPs of the SRS. For all this it is my duty to tell the citizens of Serbia all of this, to tell you, Mrs. Verice Radeta, and to other radicals who think of coming out for this pay phone and saying that I am a thief, that every time you mention my name in a negative context, I will file a private suit, and you will prove that I stole the election. Since you can't prove it, Mrs. Verice Radeta, then you'll pay a great deal of damage, so when you're kicked in the pocket, then you'll take care of what you say about the Serbian pay phone. My chaplains know who I am, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because I do not only represent Shabac, but I represent other citizens of Serbia, it is my duty to say, gentlemen of radicals, your policy is a lie, and because you have been lying to citizens of Serbia for years, you have 80 MPs here in the Assembly, fat wages, gentlemen of radicals, no political programme. How we lived while you were running this country, we know very well. I demand from the Office in the Assembly to deliver to the DS Parliament Club a video-recording of Mrs Verica Radeta's presentation from today's session, the 13th, 14, presentation when you first said I stole the election. To deliver it to the DS Parliament Club. So, I'm filing a lawsuit, Mrs. Radet, against you, so you'll see if you'll lie again at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9325	Thank you, Mrs. Lovrin. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Cvetanovic appeared, and then MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Mr. Chairman, I would first address you, first of all, as an esteemed colleague, and also as a man who has been elected twice as president of the Assembly of the largest municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Leskovac. What you need to know is that the position defines the way the Assembly works and works, whether it's at a local level, whether it's at a republican level. President of the Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic today, without the possibility of denying it, admitted that he had injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 84, because by the power of the arguments Mr Dragan Todorovic and Mrs Verica Radeta pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure which is evident. I'll remind you that before you did, there were other people from the so-called. democratic options, that Mrs. Natasa Micic had just done what you were doing, that you were giving sentences, that she had expelled MPs from the Republic of Parliament, even though they were not present in the O.R., and if they were present and they acted appropriately, she knew that it worked inappropriately. That is why many court proceedings have taken place, and that is why I, as a Parliament MP, have been on trial with Natasa Micic for a long period of time. That is why it is necessary for you as chairman to learn lessons, that it is up to you to set an example of how MPs should function, that you do not violate the Rules of Procedure and that this really be a respectable home. When I just heard that the heads of Parliament's groups, first of all DOS, want to do it properly, they have to show it practically. When Nada Kolundzija, as head of the largest parliamentary group from the ruling coalition, says believe me, we do not, because we know she was in the SPS, and in the Democratic Alternative to Neboja Covic, she now heads the DS. How can we trust her when she brings something out and says it in public in front of everyone? We don't know when or how she represents, and I don't think she really has the moral right to have some former regime, which she belonged to, criticise in such an inappropriate way. When someone says the SRS doesn't have a program. We do, because it's time for change, and the main postulates are: a radical fight against corruption and crime. Thank you. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9327	Mr. Cvetanovic, dear colleague, I didn't do anything to make this happen. I tried at the beginning of this afternoon's session to try to talk about the amendments. In no way have I caused a salvo of reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it was simply a wish, first of all, the MPs of the opposition, then the MP of the position. You're absolutely right, when the service is wrong, and it goes to my soul, I admit it. You've received a new assembly the way you've advised and recommended. So, don't put me in touch with the situation that's happening here at the moment, because it's the will of the MPs who have been reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure since the morning. We've only been over one amendment since this morning, and here we have just moved on to the second amendment. I invite you all, let's go back to working on the amendments. Let's not let anyone who's called in to the Rules of Procedure stop calling and pick up the amendments because this is completely pointless. I hope you all agree that what we're doing is completely pointless. Please stop this. Can MP Dejan Mirovic come out to talk about his amendment? Since he's not giving up, go ahead. The word is by MP Borko Ilic, then MP Nikola Novakovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9328	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow citizens, Article 103 of Position 1 - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Since the only way to talk about the amendment is to call on the Rules of Procedure, then I used my right to do so, so I'm going to use these three minutes to talk about the amendment to Article 2 of this law and quote, first of all, the bill itself. The content of the law, as explained, states: 'Article 2 of this Act in Article 15 allows the insurance company to cover an surplus risk that cannot be covered by its own resources, both domestic and foreign resecuritisation companies. The application is related to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation with a five-year deadline for coordination. ''So, this law applies much of its provisions exactly in order for Serbia to take one important step in further integration into world and European flows, especially in order to bring the Serbian economy back to the world stage. In this sense, Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation is one significant step to make it possible for us to make the state of Serbia an economic leader in the Western Balkans, and so that, before someone else offers us, we can arrange our economy and make it a competitive, modern economy, which will be able to deal with the economic challenges of the 21st century. As before, the government of Vojislav Kostunica will continue to implement an action plan for Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation. In that organization are all the world's economic forces today. Those countries that are not yet in the World Trade Organisation are seeking to join it in the coming period. There are also new economic giants born on the world stage, such as, say, the People's Republic of China, and in this sense, it is necessary that in this law, the existing law, we introduce these changes, in order to succeed in joining Serbia as a country for the next five years as a country to join the World Trade Organisation, become part of the world's economic flows and thus continue to go through integration, through which this country has been going since Vojislav Kostunica's democratic elections, with the support of 2.5 million citizens of this country, and started to bring Serbia back to the world and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9329	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Novakovic and then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a jukebox with 250 titled plates there is one that isn't cut. So it's the right person to release that record, his human right to enjoy silence. It seems to me that this is exactly the kind of uncircumcised voice of reason that is missing right now, because the situation and the atmosphere in this home reminds me of jukeboxes. Now I could say no to these two minutes, but that wouldn't be useful. It wouldn't be useful for those who don't even listen, and if they listen, they can't understand what that silence would mean. I don't know how useful it is for me to repeat what is already from the G17 Parliament Club plus said. The laws that await us will make life much easier for the citizens of Serbia. How useful it is for political parties I don't know. I am currently speaking as a citizen of Serbia, speaking as a man who can't wait for visa reliefs to be adopted and that from January 1st, I travel wherever I want, whenever I want and as I will. That's what an uncircumcised record would look like, and the echo on this right side is more than sad. I'm sorry the citizens of Serbia can't hear it, because now it's just what I'm saying. They don't believe me when in a very relaxed, cultural and gentlemen's form I tell them what's going on here, like before by Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9331	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9332	It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that I have dropped that now by badges, absolutely knows who is from which political party, so as far as Serbian citizens are concerned, there is no dilemma. Let's get back to this problem that you're obviously trying in some way to switch primarily to the SRS. I understand that, it's completely legitimate, but it's not correct. The main cause is you, gentlemen. The result is what is happening in the Serbian Parliament. And here's your test, no problem at all. Order a break, ten minutes, 15, as long as you need, come back from that break and say, "We've agreed, we'll discuss presidential elections, and that's supported by DSS, and there's no problem, we continue to work on the Rules of Procedure. It's not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9333	Let me help you, Mr. Todorovic, I'm going to question the election. If it helps you, be sure, elections will be called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9334	Mr. Chairman, it won't help you, not me. Don't make any illusions at all. You're in advance saying you're going to break the Constitution, Mr. President. It's something that's not appropriate where you are, because you know, it's already a crime with imagination, because you know. They're free to explain to some, that process of evolution didn't mess with them, what to do. For nothing, you claim to call the election, but you forget that you said that you would break the Constitution, that you would break the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9335	Mr. Todorovic, you didn't hear right. So, I didn't say when. I just said that act would happen. I don't see how I've broken anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9336	Mr. President, given your announcements that this will be the ninth, what I'm saying is that you intend to break the Constitution and break the laws. So there is a solution. Take a break and come out with a common ground because you're in position and say, "We will, no, I will." You, Mr. President, are elected by the votes of three parties here and you'll probably cheat on your coalition partner, which he has earned, because he's already committed a fraud in this House, so they're probably getting back God's will. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to re-apply, I haven't been able to elaborate what's happening to us. The main cause is you, as a result of the events in the Serbian Parliament, the immoral functioning of such partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9337	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Markovic and then MP Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9338	My fellow Members, you can honor our president, the joint president of Parliament, everything he has told us, that he is ashamed and that he has offended any of us. I'll let you do this legitimately, but you'll have to get out of here on the street, you'll have to get in a cab, into public transport, into a restaurant, and you'll see what the citizens think about this behavior. They will no longer have partial or particular accusations, they will despise all of us, because, as Mr Stefanovic said, we are growing on their account, and there is very right, because the job here is to, as a legislative body, bring laws and deal with serious business, not to abuse this pay phone for political purposes, political marketing which, as we can see, is becoming more and more heated and scarier as elections approach. So it is equally a shame for all of us for the people who are watching us, for the people who are paying us, for what we are doing, and I urge you to call on us to come to our senses and listen to the appeal of the president of the parliamentary groups and the president himself, and to return to the agenda, which is binding on us and the Rules of Procedure. So, it's terrible that Mr. Varga says, I agree, that the position had to come into the form of obstruction and get out of this room last time, but it's just as terrible that we've been putting up with this for days, showing Serbia that there are others waiting to talk about the agenda, and those who are constantly obstructing Parliament's work, but at this point we simply have no other way to deal with it. We don't want to use the MPs to stop them from talking. We use democratic procedures, and by referring to a member of the Rules of Procedure, I want to talk about the amendment. Therefore, the amendment of a colleague from the SRS refers to Article 2 and Article 1. They're asking for one and the other to be wiped out. The Legislative Committee itself has rejected this amendment. Why? The government has adopted an Action Plan to join the World Trade Organisation. It is clear that all our intentions, including Serbian radicals, are to integrate into all international institutions, including the World Trade Organisation. In order to integrate into it, we need now to start meeting the obligations that we are required by our own internal act, which is the Government's Action Plan, which must be met by 2008. That is why this objection to radicals and this amendment has not been adopted, because today we must begin to comply with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and that is the only reason why it is not accepted, not because Serbian radicals stand behind it. There's something else about dignity, and that's where I end up. I very much respect the Serbian radicals who today speak of the song, not mentioning the name of who should be killed and save Serbia, respect the late Slobodan Milosevic, for whom this song was invented – "Freed, save Serbia and kill yourself" – and have respect for the dead and stick to good Serbian traditions to speak with respect and dignity about those who do not. Stick to it, my dear gentlemen, and don't talk about the dead and murdered man, who was macho with crutches killed in front of the government building, like a thief and a criminal, and all of us as paid and organized killers who got the money for it. We are honest and honorable people who have suffered such innocent people, defend and protect them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9339	National MP Arsen Đuric, then the folk emissary of Snježana Stojanović-Plasic, and then the People's Messenger of Vjerica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9340	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 103 of Item 1 - speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda. Since the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is on the agenda, I will talk about the amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted an amendment to Article 2 and suggested that the member be deleted. The DSS-NS parliamentary group considers that the amendment should not be accepted, as Article 2 of this Act in Article 15 allows the insurance company to ensure that an excess of the risk which cannot be covered by its own reassurance funds by a domestic or a foreign reinsurance company. That provision concerns Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation, and the application of the provisions will be, under Article 25 of this law, five years after Serbia's accession to the organisation. The Government of the Republic of Serbia also adopted an Action Plan, which should remove all obstacles, i.e. to comply with all the regulations of the World Trade Organisation by June 2008, which is why this law is on the agenda. I call once again not to accept this proposed amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9341	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic reported. When you want to work on the amendments, you get the word right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9342	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use very little time, because I've been thinking about giving up this announcement, given that for a moment I thought the discussion would really return to the currents that we're all seeking, and these are the flows that lead us to one normal, reasonable work and debate on what's on the agenda and what's our job. Yesterday, respected colleagues and colleagues, on Sunday, together with several colleagues, the representative of this parliament, attended a meeting where we were very seriously trying to talk about how to get Serbia into Europe as soon as possible and what are the ways for citizens of Serbia, as clearly and as acceptable as possible, to explain what are the advantages of that road that Serbia is, I remind you, which we have chosen here in parliament, which is the European way. In the interest of our citizens, it certainly is security, it is peace, it certainly is a better standard of living, a stable economy and certainly is an exchange of experiences with the world, with all our friends in the world and with people whose tendency is to live normally and satisfactorily in their countries, of course, with the preservation of national identities, and that is what Europe is actually offering. I really call on you today, as my colleague Nikola Novakovic said, and in our silence, in some way we show that we are for this road, that we should not choose it again, because we have already chosen it once and that we are ready to make a contribution in the most ordinary way, which is why we are all here today, to simply give our work a chance at peace and to give a chance to the European path of Serbia's development. I really call on you to complete the debate on the amendments as soon as possible and to move on to a debate on the laws that await us, which will allow our citizens and, above all, scientists, people who have health problems, people whose families are separated, who will allow young Serbia to travel, to socialise with people in the world, to socialise with our friends in Europe, and thus once again confirm that Serbia is part of Europe and that there is no other way for Serbia. I call upon you, indeed, on behalf of this goal, which I am confident, together, because this is the goal in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, to contribute to today's work and to enable, above all, colleagues who have constructively submitted amendments to these laws to come to terms, that they can explain and that those who believe that these amendments should not be adopted give a chance to make their arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9343	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vjerica Radeta, then MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9344	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know where to begin. From a member of 221 who says that the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. I am pleased that we, the Serbian radicals, have provoked other MPs to finally start participating in the work of the National Assembly. Article 27, Mr. President of the National Assembly, refers to you. You didn't ask any MP who wasn't from the SRS to tell you what basis he was answering. You've allowed the abuse of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the DSS MPs, because they use to talk about amendments, using Article 103 as something on the agenda, and amendments are not on the agenda. The truth is it's been started, but we're still not talking about any amendments. You'll have to, colleagues, well remember what you said, because when we talk about amendments, I hope you'll call again to seriously discuss it and show that you really care about this House's dignity. A colleague from Capca, who I don't know the name of, I didn't even remember a moment ago, she had a lot of things to do here with her hand, she threatened her finger, her lawsuits, it seems to me she was at an example at dinner, but, well, that's already their problem. One colleague said, let's not make it look like I'm calling it all on the line, that there was no effect from our intervention this morning in the Rules of Procedure. You see, it was. When I warned Mr. President of Parliament this morning that he had sent us some papers, instead of the normal invitations of the Assembly, we got something that looked like a convocation, but Mr. Dulic, this wasn't supposed to be like this. Here it says that you have scheduled a second session, that I do not read now, for Tuesday 30th of October at 10.00 hours, and there is no further, there is no - or at the end. That means if it's done, if it doesn't, then you're going to delay the moment you find out you can't hold a session. Since, Mr. Dulic, you have just said that you will call the elections, I ask Mr. Milos Aligrudic, do you hear me, colleague Aligrudic, ask you here to state on behalf of the DSS whether it means that a coalition agreement has been reached between DSS and DSS on the election call and whether it means that we will have all the laws that are necessary in the procedure, Mr. Dulic, to call elections unless you want to go to Zabel after the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9345	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Stanimirovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9346	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, I do share a sense of shame expressed by the President of the Assembly, because we have been working in this Serbian Assembly today, the amendments to the Insurance Act are on the agenda, and we have not passed any amendments. The elections are getting closer, and it's clear to everyone. There will be elections, the Constitutional Law says about deadlines when they must be called, of course there is something called political agreements, but above all, this most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia serves to pass laws that will benefit, for good, at the mercy of all Serbian citizens. We need to pass a law on readmission, a visa relief law at the next session of the Serbian Parliament, to allow our citizens to travel easier across Europe and the world, to finally put an end to that camp that existed in its own time, when we had to pay a tax to get out of our own country. Someone here knowingly and deliberately is doing the destruction of parliament, the destruction of all institutions, and the Assembly, and the Government, and the Prime Minister, and the President of the Republic, in such a way as to stop this society that as a state remained far behind those who had been before for 30 years, those where we went to yesterday with vegeta, gum, vinjak "napoleleon", they are already members of the European Union, and we are here today obstructing the highest legislative authority of the government, trying to prevent it from doing what it exists. A measure of xantophobia is also expressed here. Xantophobia is a fear of yellow and it's amazing that this yellow fear, whenever elections get closer, it gets more intense and more intense. It's just amazing. This is where it started, first we talked about Ruma, about the councilmen who left the SRS committee group. Do they claim, this is where they waved their resignations, whether they personally, since resignation is a personal act, if anyone has ever recorded a camera to tell them in person -- yes, we have resigned parliamentary mandates. You can file any paper on anyone's behalf, but there's something called a personal act and a man has to resign himself if he doesn't want to be a councilman anymore. In the end, there was a lot of noise here, and some arguments and facts, as Patriarch Paul would say, let your arguments be strong and your words are mild. There is one character line, Mr. Todorovic, one of our famous writers said there is one line in the Serbian people, that they would rather accept someone else's guilt on themselves than their own delusion, because when they admit someone else's guilt, even if in the world one man knows they didn't do it, the one who did it. Now in this situation, you simply don't want to admit your own delusions, because then you need to find yourself in front of a mirror and say, I have no right to support what has ruined my people, my country and my country. I don't have that right in front of my children, in front of the future of this nation and this country. And turn around and do what the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9347	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9348	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, item 1, which reads - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. There's been a lot of questions here. Someone mentioned earlier whether representatives of the ruling parties agreed on the elections, and I want to repeat once again what the president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group has said clearly, it is all clear in the Constitutional Law. I am absolutely sure that Mr. Dulic, as president of the National Assembly, will act and call the elections the way we adopted it, when we adopted the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since I have already said we will talk about the agenda, DSS MPs have been seriously preparing for this debate in the sense that Serbian citizens are being explained why they are being amended and complemented by the Insurance Act. I move to Article 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, i.e. Article 26 of the applicable law, which reads: ''The Insurance Action Society shall establish at least two legal, or natural persons. ''In Item 2: ''A party legal and natural persons may, under the conditions of reciprocity, set up an insurance company or invest funds in an insurance company. ''The amendments and additions to this law state that Article 2 deletes words under the terms of mutuality. Dear counterpart, Nebojsa Stefanovic has submitted an amendment to this member requesting that Article 3 be deleted. I think that, in its explanation, the Government has made it clear to the MPs and to the applicant of this amendment, which is why this amendment should not be accepted and everything is clear. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the light of the reasons set out in the opening decision, the Commission considers that, in the light of the reasons set out in the first subparagraph of Article 107(3)(c) of the basic Regulation, it is necessary to establish the conditions for the establishment of an insurance company and other supervisory entities, as well as for obtaining a licence to carry out representation activities, i.e. insurance interventions, as set out in the law. Of course, that's what we pointed out many times during today's debate, that the application of this law is related to Article 25. The draft law on changes and additions means that these provisions will take place after five years of Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9349	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want on behalf of the SPS MPs, although I am not a member of the SPS, but of the Veterans' Movement, to say and to point to some fact. We have so far not participated in this, according to us, completely pointless discussion of the injury of the Rules of Procedure that lasts all day. However, discussions of individual MPs or MPs are really causing a revolution and dragging us into this discussion because we cannot avoid it. Ms. Markovic comes out and poops on the evil fate of Zoran Djindjic. I have to tell her that I've watched the murders by participating in the war and I know what it means when you lose someone you love, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't give her the right to come here from this pay phone, complaining about the evil fate of Djindjic, that another man, who was also killed in The Hague tribunal, calls out and blames some things he probably isn't guilty of. Even today, all MPs and anyone who seriously wants to see the situation in which Serbia is located sees that Slobodan Milosevic is... I don't know who killed Zoran Djindjic, but I know who killed Slobodan Milosevic. Indeed, in The Hague, they executed a man without judgment. I really ask you, when you complain about the fate of your president, make sure there are a lot of people in this country who respect and respect Slobodan Milosevic and continue to regard him as their president. Don't, in tears and in the suffering of one family and one part of the people, push other people and hurt their feelings. I ask you to leave the MPs of the SPS and the socialists outside this glare that you have dragged us into, because all responsibility for the incompetence and for the work of this assembly are borne by the MPs of the ruling parties. As for the song the young lady mentioned, it was sung - Save Serbia and kill yourself, Free; it is not true, there are turned words; and otherwise that song was sung in 1991 and 1992 in Vukovar by warriors - Save Serbia and kill yourself, Tudjman. I know who turned that song around and who turned those words into words used for Slobodan Milosevic. Today those words, when they're singing from the same stadium, they sound a little different, a little more painful, because we're really not ready to take what we've been prepared to do to others. You've heard of these MPs singing in the stadiums. Please don't engage in your debates, in which the Socialists won't participate because they're outside of them and they think this assembly should do something else, forcefully dragging us in, because I think it's better if at least a few MP groups are out of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9351	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 101 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was provoked by a speech by the head of the DS Hope Kolundzija parliamentary group, which said here that certain forces have taken place thousands of kilometers of Serbian territory. Mrs. Kolundjia, I must tell you that you are in deep error. No one has surrendered and no one has left voluntarily, over the Serbian people in Slovenia, Republika Srpska Krajina, Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Metohija, a genocide and ethnic cleansing has been made. I will tell you only about the Republic of the Serbian Krajina and the Republic of Croatia that between 500 and 800,000 Krajisniks were expelled, 500 thousand Krajisniks live here today. It is your fault that this happened to the Serbian people in Republika Srpska, and today you support genocide. You're an accomplice to that genocide. Now I'll tell you how and how. In 1996, a relationship normalisation agreement was signed between the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia, under which both states committed themselves to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the then states. On the other hand, Article 7 of the agreement provides that Croatia will return all the exiled population. All five per cent of Serbs from Republika Srpska returned to their hearths. Their property is burned, destroyed, devastated. About 30 billion euros is the value of the property left by Serbs in Croatia. Movement property, immovable property, property rights, social rights - Croatia is not returning anything. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution in 2005, with the support of the SRS, has proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe the adoption of a declaration on the return of Serbian property and Serbian property and social rights. The only SRS was the initiator, along with the government, and we got that declaration. Who was against - Mr. Micunovic and G17 Plus gentlemen. We have also reiterated this, as Croats continue to tear down all agreements, starting with the agreement I mentioned, and then the conflict agreement, the trade co-operation agreement, the social rights agreement. Here I asked whether it is true that the administrative procedure is conducted in front of our and Croatian authorities for 20,000 people seeking retirement in Croatia. I got an answer to that question that it's not 20, it's 24,000 Serbs and today it's asking for its pension, a well-deserved pension. For millions of years, Serbs have left the Krajissniks in Croatia and cannot get their pensions. I think it's a shame first of all for you, because you're complicit with the Croats. Nothing this government has done to condemn what the Croats are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9353	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9354	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing a multi-day obstruction of the work of this Parliament, not to say months of obstruction, which speaks of the irresponsibility of certain national representatives in this House. First of all, I would like to remind all MPs and MPs of what our obligation is in Parliament. It is, above all, that we represent the interests of citizens and that of citizens from the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. We should also represent the interests of all Serbs in dispersion and those displaced persons whose inventory of the problem we have heard earlier. I can agree with my predecessor that it is an inventory of Serbia's citizens' problems, but it is also an inventory of a devastating policy that has been driven for decades in Serbia. It is the inventory of an irresponsible policy, which has led to war conflicts at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. It is an inventory of the political indiscretion, shortsightedness and selfishness of certain political elites that ruled Serbia, as well as republics in the former SFRY space. I mean, it's true that there are problems in solving these problems. It is true that there is no respect for the Agreement on Succession and Annex G, which guarantees the private property of all those who acquired it by 31 December 1990. We should advocate that in all emerging countries in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY, a consistent Law on Succession is applied, that the judicial authorities in all the territories of the former Yugoslavia are consistently respecting the Law on Succession, which was adopted in the same text in 2004. We can't have double standards. We must lead a responsible and clear policy and always tell the citizens of Serbia what political consequences they have in the face of the political decisions they make. I'd like to go back on the subject. Here is the subject of amending the Insurance Act, here is now the subject of an amendment of a parliamentary group that is not legally possible, because the objective of these amendments is to obstruct the establishment of a normal financial market and a general insurance system. I'll make an argument for what I say. I'll remind you what insurance companies looked like from 1990 to 2000. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that they had a policy of green insurance cards that was not valid anywhere. It was mandatory to pay for it, and you couldn't use it anywhere. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that everyone who has suffered damage to their vehicles or all those who have suffered life and health damage from 1990 to 2000 did not have the opportunity to collect any damage, i.e. the insurance premium. These were the consequences of your policy-making -- when banks stole the citizens' foreign savings, when funds were stolen for Serbia's rebirth. So all this is what has brought Serbia into a very difficult economic position. For the first time, we are in a position to establish normal relations and, if you are responsible for the citizens of Serbia, you should respect these changes and engage actively in their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9355	I thank the People's MP, Bosko Ristic. The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov. Let me suggest, since we've shown that we know how to do this, let's go back to this amendment number two. After Mr. Peter, we're going to Amendment Two. Here you go, Peter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 103. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to point out that under Article 103, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure can only talk about the issue on the agenda. We have witnessed today's sessions, where one topic, the subject of choice, has been tried, which is not on today's agenda. In that regard, I would just say - slowly, to those who care about the elections, slowly about it. Do not impose this topic, so I hope the biggest parliamentary party will be questioned and consulted on such important issues. As for the second topic, which was also attempted to be imposed outside the agenda and contrary to Article 103. Rules of Procedure, it's work or local conflicts in local authorities. I remind you that according to the Constitution and the positive laws, the state authorities are required, and that will certainly do so, that all conflicts and problems in the local functioning of the government are resolved in a timely manner. What was on today's agenda was the least of the words in the past, so we MPs of the DSS and New Serbia and the MP groups, or the DSS MPs, will point out, and I will move on to the next Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Paragraph 1, which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Many past discussions and past speeches have not. On the contrary, they have just insulted the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of all Serbian citizens. Therefore, in this way, we DSS MPs will broadly apply the Rules of Procedure, and reporting on the Rules of Procedure to discuss amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. I'll use the remaining time to indicate that it's on Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, with a proposal – Article 3. is deleted. I'll remind you, there's one sentence in the explanation, where it says that reciprocity is a necessary principle to apply all serious and responsible states. I will remind you, dear fellow Members of the SRS, and I have said this, please follow the speaker next time, that I will use the Rules of Procedure, and we are doing this in the DSS Members, that we will use this to discuss amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. I will beg the chairman, given that I have quoted the Rules of Procedure for 10-15 seconds, as well as the current... (President: Here you go, Peter, wrap it up. )......................................................................................................... Obstruction by the MPs of the SRS, to extend it for another 10 seconds and to say that the law on amendments and amendments to the Insurance Act; I will try to make that clear when the next announcement is made, given that the MPs will clarify between themselves these dilemmas that they have. I underline, under the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. You claim it's not possible, and then how is it possible to talk about everything other than what's on the agenda today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9357	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic. I suggested that after this speaker we go to the amendments, and Mr. Peter goes a little bit ahead of time. I'm sure you'll accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9358	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To be honest, we've been working all day, actually from 10.00 hours to now, and I think we've been breaking the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia all along. Of these seven hours, if we're counting a break a little less, we're talking about a agenda point that's ten minutes at the most today. Everything else was related either to certain local self-governments, where the problem that has arisen must be solved, or it is related to something that has been in the past, closer or further. The whole time we've never tried to go back to doing what we really had to do today, which is that 17 amendments, as far as there are on this agenda point, we try in some way to discuss, to say why we're against them, why we're against them, and to even end this point today. Finally, it is the right of MPs at any time to use the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. It is also right to use the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226 and all other members to obtain some information that will help them, as MPs, to do better the work they have been elected from the order of Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, we have no right to obstruct for the simple reason that all these citizens are paying us. It's really not nice that since these seven hours, I repeat again, we've only talked for ten minutes the most about the agenda point, and everything else has been, I have to admit at this point, a political campaign. Unfortunately, that's not good, by my understanding and by the understanding of the G17 Plus party. Once again, I am taking the opportunity, please, and I urge you to return to the agenda point, to try to complete this agenda item today, and tomorrow or another day, we will see how it will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9359	I thank MP Jovan Nesovic. The People's Messenger Zvonko Stevic has the word. I'm joining his proposal, so if we're mature, we'll move on to the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have come to you because I am irritated by certain discussions, and today everything and everything has been here, and at least in the interest of the citizens. Today I have responded to the Rules of Procedure and I have not yet received any information as to why there is no timely provision of heating for primary and secondary schools in central and maritime areas in KIM and why there is no heating for 10,000 students, and I am waiting for that answer. I called to ask why there's been a dislocation of the department of the university and the rectorate from Gracanica in Mitrovica for students for the third and fourth years, and I'm waiting for an answer. I want to tell you gentlemen, especially to these democratic block gentlemen, that it was a long time ago in 1999, it was 2000 years ago. Seven years have passed, gentlemen, it's time to settle the accounts. What did we do in seven years? This is about better standards, better lives, better conditions, and this is about better conditions for displaced faces. I'll tell you how displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija live in Serbia. So, 220,000 is in Serbia; 27,000 people who worked in the economy – in the Amortizers, in Kosovo, in Trepca, in Rudnik Kišnica, in Jankovic, the battery factory in Gjilan, the Radiator factory in Gjilan, etc. – receive compensation of 4,600 dinars. So you brought in a regulation to pay some 8,600 dinars from January 1st this year, and then you brought it back to January, so you moved it to May, so in May, you paid 8,600 dinars, and then you went back to 4,600 dinars. So, 17,000 people in migration, and when the 4,000 goes down, that's 68 million dinars a month. That's less than a million euros. If we charge months, I ask you, where's the money? This is how displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija live. Is that democracy? Is that the way? Do you know that it's been eight years, that people have worked in the economy and created, that they've now acquired retirement conditions and that there are no internships, lost files, lost documents, and people are experiencing unpleasantness and they can't retire, and if they retire, they don't count ten years, etc. Therefore, the SPS proposes to pass a law on defining that status. There are a number of letters, and just to tell you, today here in Belgrade, they're picking up the thresholds, it's been a year and a half, 21 employees of the Department of Revenue, who were manipulated, deceived and expelled a year and a half ago. They've been promised and no one will take them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9361	Mr. Stevic, please, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9362	Just two more sentences. They announce leaving Kosovo and Metohija and leaving their centuries-old hearths. Is this democracy and the struggle for the survival of the peoples of Kosovo and Metohija? No, but the people recognize it more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9363	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zdravko Topalovic and then the National MP of Hope Kolundžija appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, member 104. It's amazing what cynicism has been presented by MPs in the afternoon of the session. I'll support concrete examples. We know that in the morning the SRS began to debate the amendments. That's a fact. In order to be accused of obstructing Parliament with our amendments, which is amazing and seems ridiculous. I now hear from my colleague Vukovic from the DS that we need to be enabled now, as the debate has begun in the Rules of Procedure, to discuss the amendments, how they are legally possible. A colleague, Bosko Ristic, comes out and says they are legally impossible, that they should not be discussed and that we are again making an obstruction of parliament with amendments. Amazing cynicism. Miss Lovrin wants to arrest all SRS MPs, shut their mouths, threaten that force, by court, she has announced some lawsuits. So, it would suit you if no one were to sit in this parliament, so you could continue to rob Serbia unhindered, to do, to share the labels of whatever you want. The gentleman who likes to visit Studio B, who is an expert in fascism, gave us this sermon on some yellow phobia. It is true, sir, that the jaundice is derived from dirty hands, from dirty hands, from the hands that are scratched in dirt, theft and crime. In the end, gentlemen, we Serbian radicals are happy to have been contrasting, i.e. Your so-called counterrevolutionaries. The five-eyed revolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9365	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9366	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DS, our MPs will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, because we are here, among other things, accused of not wanting to discuss the amendments. We want to talk about the amendments, we want to hear the argument, and, as we have shown so many times, whenever that argument was clear proof of the desire to correct the bill, to remove any ambiguity or possible bad consequences, we have been prepared to accept such an amendment and we have never wondered where that amendment came from, nor did we want to play games that same amendment we bear, to accept our own, not the amendments of opposition MPs. So, once again, please let's get back to the agenda. We want to hear your argument about the amendments and we want this assembly to keep doing what we're all here to do. I can have a personal opinion of the individual MPs and that's my business. What I respect here is citizens who have chosen these 250 MPs and I respect every citizen, no matter who he voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9367	I'm asking the heads of parliament if they're accepting this appeal too to give up reporting to the Rules of Procedure and to return to the agenda? Is it possible? Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9368	Mr Dulic, I went out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and on behalf of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, let me say a few words. I really think that the SPS MPs today showed an enviable level of discipline and correctness in relation to what was the topic of the National Assembly's agenda, because they kept quiet and when they didn't have to, I must say, that they would not further pour oil on the fire and make this session of the Assembly immeasurable. Unfortunately, we have witnessed the situation that individual MPs, likely in their intention to obstruct the work of the National Assembly session and to prove the correctness of some of their policies and political concepts, speak uglyly both about the 90s and directly or indirectly about the Socialists. If they're already as brave as they were loud, so when they wanted their colleagues from the SRS to break down, then they should have called them by their real name without using general formulas that show that there's not enough courage to tell people -- you're guilty if they're considered guilty. I'm not saying this by accident. On the case of DS MPs, we saw that it was a script in the National Assembly. So, the scenario: let's go out and talk about it and that until then and then, so now we've decided to change the scenario, and in that time we're going to accuse the entire opposition. If you have something with the SRS say "you, colleagues from the SRS", don't tell the entire opposition, because there are other MPs here who have not participated in the agenda in this way. Only counterpart Vassiljevic and counterpart Stevic came out in front of the SPS in the afternoon and pointed very specifically to some problems in Serbia's life, calling for the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you this as someone who replaces the president of the parliamentary group and performs on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. And we have our dignity, we have our own name and name and we belong to one political option - the SPS. If anyone has anything to say to us, speak to us, don't say anything general. If he wants to obstruct the National Assembly session, let him say it loud and clear. If he wants to discuss the agenda, let him say so. But until you learn to call things a real name, there's no luck. Mr. Dulic, please, and you have part of the responsibility for this situation in the National Assembly, and you are burning your statements, knowingly or unconsciously, the situation and making the atmosphere inappropriate for the work of the National Assembly session. You have to consider that. If you estimate that the National Assembly cannot adopt certain laws at this pace, and there are certain deadlines, use Rules of Procedure, Rule 161 and beyond, interrupt this session of the National Assembly, put on the agenda laws that must be adopted by the first, so that we can all win, and Serbia the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9369	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Since we are discussing the Insurance Act, I want a notice and an explanation from the interior minister -- how in Serbia to ensure and provide people who think differently, who are fighting for justice and the truth, which points to crime and corruption, to the nepotism of local powers, to the advantage of certain authorities with crime and criminals? I repeat, two bombs went off outside the house of the councilman SO Loznik Milivo andric the other night. The second bomb exploded in front of the cops. They made some kind of insight and search into his apartment for several hours. Why? Because an honest and honest man has to get out of his house, move because he's pointing to some police force and a mob car. Why? Because he informed people from the top of the police where some convicts are hiding, convicted by a judicial verdict in one case that the entire public of this country was interested in, and now they're godless on the run. I wouldn't say this, but 20 days ago from this pay phone, I asked the police minister for an answer, because it's a man, I don't want to accuse anyone, who was the initiator of collecting 8,000 signatures for the impeachment of the President of Loznica Municipality, who filed criminal charges against him when he was unauthorized, manipulating along with then-General of the Customs Administration, indicated that he was functioning, in principle of nepotism, employment at Customs. Then I read that in 2005, an explosive device was installed outside his home in the village of Brnjak. He was beaten up in 2006 and was hit hard. He had two cars on fire a month ago. Two bombs went off the other night. Why? Because he thinks differently, because he's fighting for justice and the truth, because he's a councilman of the opposition. I've never mentioned it before, but the man is a member of the DHSS, which is not important at all, because the state has to protect every citizen, no matter what he says, what he thinks, what he stands for, and especially those people who have the courage to point to crime, corruption and nepotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9371	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am grateful to the representatives of the DS and their head of Parliament who went out for a pay phone and showed the citizens of Serbia what the DS really is like. You tried to parlay the SRS MPs until 10 minutes ago because you have no basic answer to the questions asked, as long as the authorities are being abused, that the ministries are being abused to achieve your political goal. Your political goal is usefulness and we point to that. We're giving orders all the time. You're going to parry us. Probably your superiors are looking at you, seeing that we killed you like rabbits and said, "Flee, now let's try to take advantage of it, and now you're going to show up nice, well, we're giving up on the Rules of Procedure now, we're just going to do business with the Rules of Procedure, and you, if you're naughty, if you want bad Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, you're going to continue the same way. You can't one gesture forget all of this and the reasons why we're suggesting that some things have to change. I invited you out, you had time, you came out here and you told the citizens of Serbia, tell the MPs whether DSS will agree whether there will be a choice or not, which will say whether the laws that we must adopt under the law on the implementation of the Constitution will arrive in the procedure. It's a very simple thing. You're not able to do this, but you want to discuss the Insurance Act, and during that time, police cordons are breaking into the municipalities' congregations, and they're trying to seize the electoral will of the citizens. You don't care about that. That's not the point. Why should we deal with such things, here is the Insurance Act, the visa regime law, because it will, for God's sake, make it possible for the citizens of Serbia to just wait for them to go and travel. No, we want to discuss the essence when we stop the government from being abused. You're saying the police went there and they're working under the law. What law? What kind of act did they have? The Ministry's opinion? Who is the Ministry's opinion binding? It is interesting how quickly you decided to send police to the municipality of Rum, and when you will send police to the City of Belgrade Assembly, let's say Radmila Hrustanovic is returned to Djeram. They're standing there empty. She could work there nicely. When are you going to cancel the election for the president of the assembly, vice president of the assembly? When are you going to do one thing by law, not by accusing the SRS? Now that you see that you have no arguments, you would now, for God's sake, say that the MPs in front of Serbian citizens are guilty of what's going on. I thank you for the concern you show for the SRS, but don't defend us. We are only waiting for the assessment of our political action to be obtained from the citizens of Serbia, and since 2003, I should not convince you, we are in an inaccessible first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9373	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? The word is Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9374	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I would like to introduce you to some of the things Mr. Vladan Batic spoke of. Of course, the lady is also sorry that I condemn every type of violence, and the one in which the security and property of Mr. Milivoj Andric's boardman is threatened. I hope that the perpetrators of this event will be quickly discovered and severely punished by the authorities. However, I would ask Mr. Vladan Batic, what does this event have to do with the current president of the municipality, Mr. Vido Petrovic. The councilman, Mr. Milivove Andric, said in the news "B92" that the bomb was dropped outside his house because of his press speech and for the assembly speaker about the link between the mafia's car and some police representatives. I'd like to ask here the Security Committee and the MUP if Mr. Millivoje Andric has a criminal record, and if there are, how many times has he been convicted of what acts?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9375	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic and then MP Vlado Sekulic appeared. The militia isn't here. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I want to inform you that in the territory of SO Novi Belgrade, quasi-democracy and police enforcement remain in place. Today I was invited by the citizens and the Survival Association, again the kiosks, temporary facilities, without any legal solution. It was given a solution on September 23rd that it would be removed suddenly, for a time, which by law there is no way it would be, with Mr. Ozegovic we wanted to force us to save one family from being left without existence. The owner of Mr. Mutavdzic, who is a member of the Association, which has nothing to do with the parties, is a problem that has been happening in New Belgrade for years, surrounded by police forces, the Banovo hill intervention brigade. I must stress that the officers of Ban's hill, the intervention brigades, were extremely correct and they were more in the mood to arrest the one whose kiosk was to be placed, which is Cane Subotić, they expressed their desire to be more willing to arrest Mr. Canet Subotic for whom an international warrant was called, but there is a kiosk being removed for his kiosks – Mr. Cane Sobotić, or Cane Futura – to be placed. Mr. Ozegovic, of course, was not in SO Novi Belgrade. He was in town this time. Otherwise, whenever something happens and Mr. Ozegovic's warrant goes down, then he's in Kenya, he's in Belfort or elsewhere. I asked him at the New Belgrade Assembly what we had to do with Kenya, he couldn't explain. It's something that is permanently done in New Belgrade, the kiosks are being removed without any legal basis. Citizens of New Belgrade, businessmen, are left without being able to exist, they and their family. I wanted to relate to the presentation of a colleague from the Democratic Party, who talked about a relationship with the dead, how MPs should behave. I'll say how the committees of the Democratic Party acted in New Belgrade. When Mr. Milosevic passed away and a minute of silence was given, they were all, how they were Democrats and how they were Christians, all came out of the hall of the New Belgrade City Assembly at that time. So they continued to tell the story that Mr. Milosevic was buried as a pet, and it was specifically the head of the council group, Mr. Milenkovic, who expressed it. So that's your relationship when you talk about someone else. That was the Democratic Party's position. What I've heard is that someone's afraid of yellow, people aren't afraid of yellow, they're afraid of yellow. I said, it's a shame, that we should like to hear what's said on the bus. We're in the field all the time, and we can see through these petitions what kind of mood it is. You'd better not hear what people tell you and what they think. As far as yellow is concerned, that's what I said last time. Mr. Polt and Mr. Ozegovic are the most famous Utopians in New Belgrade, paint children's stand in yellow and now no one will defend, no one will defend the goals. On the football field painted in yellow, next to all the colors, and now they have children's problems, someone won't fit on the goal, everyone is disgusted by yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9377	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9378	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 104. A colleague, Stevic, said it was a long time ago in the 1990s, and I'm adding that the rest of the consequences are lasting and will last for what, the 1990s, who knows? To connect it to the current subject, to say two digits. The previous decade, the last decade of the 20th century, stole from citizens 3.27 billion euros in the form of old foreign exchange savings from Dafiment Bank, Yugoslavs and insurance companies, that Viner, who inherited that Austrian insurance and other insurance companies. I repeat, that decade has stolen 3.27 billion euros from its citizens and this is today the public debt of the state. Gentlemen, of the nine billion public debt of the state -- 3.27 took that last decade. Do we need such insurance companies? Should banks and insurance companies that take their citizens' money take effect and not return anything to the next state, the next government, take the obligation to return their interest to those citizens. Gentlemen, regardless of which side we are, you see well that today's 17 insurance companies of 40, because every market produces competition and concentration, these 17 insurance companies are now practically through a competitive struggle, through the fight of their packages, services, to get people to look at these insurance companies as they are, as a form of savings, as something that is giving up on current consumption to have in the old days to spend. Even the Danube State, with a majority package, had to compete to overcome its conservative structure internally and that they had to compete to survive on the market with the best conditions package, as banks had to compete, lower interest rates, give new package arrangements every day to survive on that market. That's how it is with insurance companies. That's new to us. For the first time today, we have insurance companies that offer, where you can save yourself through life insurance and other forms of insurance, gentlemen. It's a complete revolution, it's the gentlemen of October 5th. Whether we're critical of the way we own it, about how we enter this society or that society, but gentlemen it's October 5th. We have that in the last two or three years more crop, fruit and throat insurance has begun. Now the Ministry of Agriculture returns 30%, returns, regresses that insurance. We've just started working on the market, and that's why we shouldn't be obstructing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9379	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9380	Mr. President, Article 103. Rules of Procedure, insurance laws. I'm not sitting up there because it's much better to follow this interesting discussion and talk about the insurance law. When this law was passed just over two years ago, I have to admit that on the Finance Committee, we found this to be a bit of an unusual solution because the National Bank took over the insurance market. It is an unusual solution and I agree with Mr Vujadinović, but in markets such as ours, in some period of transition, is not an unusual solution. Of course everything seen on the stock market, on the stock market with insurance companies, and you can see the growth of insurance companies, justifies some of these procedures. After two and a half years of functioning of a law like this, some shortcomings have been observed, some opportunities for change have been observed, the market has progressed and this opens up the possibility that changes and additions to this law should be intervened, as suggested here. No law is perfect enough. The Serbian Assembly's Finance Committee should also monitor what is happening with market insurance, attention should be paid to the fact that sometimes insurance companies are not still on the market. It is interesting why DDOR is not on the market, it is an interesting question for Mr Markovic. It's interesting why he was taken off the stock market after partially implemented privatisation, why he's still not on the market. We opened this issue on the Finance Committee and it would be interesting to reopen the same issue at one of the next sessions. It wasn't in the closed room, it was in the open session. Today's question is, I wasn't there, why was that session closed? It was closed because we were looking for reports of several closed insurance companies. Since the proceedings were under way, then we received a report that was officially declared secret by the National Bank. Personally, I didn't want to receive the material, and it's on the Assembly's record, from a session that's secret, and I didn't want to be familiar with materials that other MPs couldn't be familiar with. It exists in the archives, then it's open. The explanation was that the proceedings were pending and that, until these proceedings were completed, the public should not be introduced. I don't think there are things that can disrupt court proceedings, it was a request from the National Bank, and we didn't have much room to react differently, but that was the explanation at the time. I suggest we schedule a new board session with the same agenda point, open all issues, not only for MPs but also for the public, and get to know all the elements that are related to the insurance market and all the issues that have been related to insurance companies that have lost their license and whose work is prohibited. To examine all these issues related to individual companies whose actions have been removed from the stock market.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9381	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stojanka Petkovic and then MP Zarko Obradovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9382	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. Today I need to go back to Kosovo and Metohija and I need to tell the Serbian people what we were actually doing today. I have to tell them we're having a lost day. Do you know, gentlemen, how much for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija means one hour and not one day? Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have eyes to this home, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to solve their problems, to resolve their return, their human rights, their property. On December 10th, Serbs await a solution to their fate, as they are threatened to be expelled. The Serbs expect us here to solve their problems and help them. Do you know how hard it is when you don't know which country you'll wake up in? You don't know one day whose citizens you'll be. Please go back to the agenda and please, sir, don't interrupt me, I haven't interrupted you, I've listened to you. If you swear that you will and can solve the problems of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who are now acute and crisis, and the issue of all of us, the issue of the international community, please return to the topic of the agenda on behalf of that people, on behalf of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9383	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, then MP Jadranko Vukovic and then MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9384	Dear fellow Members, I have reported on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to call for a consistent application of the Rules of Procedure, respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 27: "The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Article 100: ''To a National MP who wishes to speak of the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation... The People's Messenger is obliged to state which provisions, etc." I say this not by chance, I am absolutely convinced, as can be seen from the way the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia runs this session this afternoon, that there are no reported MPs for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but read in order that they... That's not true, there's a colleague, Mr. Aligrudic, please come out here, one 60-70 people checked in first thing, I checked in four minutes ago, Mr. Aligrudic, without anxiety. I propose to Mr President that we see exactly who wants to advertise the Rules of Procedure, so those present in the hall, who want to participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, get the opportunity to speak, not read on the list, so someone, so there, so there, so let's replace him who's here, he's gone, he's got some work to do at home, etc. I ask the MPs, when they object in the way they work, to say what they think about both the law and the amendment, not to tell other stories, rather than to call on other MPs to break the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. President, no matter what time, finish this session. To know exactly who is there from those present who want to speak, then we will come to the situation more easily to see how long this session will take, and perhaps I will help you to apply the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Rule 161 and beyond, and adopt the laws that Serbia needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9385	Since you weren't there when all MPs, like now, were looking for the opportunity to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I made a list in which each parliamentary group had its own representative, you received a word as a representative of the SPS Parliament Club. It is not my fault that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which allowed MPs to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, have been fully devised, precisely by the activity of a number of MPs who today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, a month ago, the last six months, have reported for the injury of the Rules of Procedure and talked about everything and everything. We're in this way this act that we're working on completely devised, and now it's the consequence of what we have today. We have therefore agreed that we are going in order and every parliamentary group will have its representative in this series and a number of MPs who will talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so if the SPS wants to participate, please report to the floor and you will get the word when the time comes. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jadranko Vukovic and then MP Konstantin Samofalov appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Mr. Dulic, I would ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to honor the MPs who go out for this pay phone and speak of the Rules of Procedure. I want to tell you why I'm pointing this out for you. If you had listened to Mr. Todorovic this morning, if you had used your authority as Parliament Speaker and if you had invited Mr. Jocic, Ruma here was a problem, to answer the question of what the police role was in Ruma, we would have made everything clear. Since you have ignored the Committee on Defence and Security, that is, since you have kept silent on our request that Minister Jocic deliver information on the role of police in the violent takeover of power in the municipality of Ruma, I am asking as a MP to obtain a report for which no information is provided to this assembly, this House. In the event that this is ignored, it is necessary to initiate the shift of the most responsible in the institutions of government, in particular Mr Jocic and Mr Markovic. Why Mr. Markovic? Mr. Markovic, Minister of Local Self-Government, invents some shortcuts to rule illegally. The Minister for Local Self-Government Markovic directly violates the law, but it obviously suits him. As for Mrs. or Ms. Daniele, the DS lady, she talked about this speaker about Serbian radicals, about the theft of electricity, misrepresented Mrs. Radetti. She acted incorrectly, Mr. Milivoevich, because she insulted this pay phone. Gentlemen of the DS, when she sues Mrs. Radet, Mrs. Daniela, we'll get you a video of her moral values, and we'll share it here, and you won't applaud, but you'll be ashamed to applaud.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9387	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9388	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respecting the views of all of you, no matter which political party you belong to, which you have discussed so far in the Rules of Procedure, once again I ask you to return to the agenda. I would remind you that the first point at the next session is the Agreement on Visa Facilitation between the EU and Serbia. So I address you as a young man, a member of a generation within which 70% of young people have never left the borders of our country. I'll remind you that only every eight citizens in Serbia have a passport, but it's only an average. In the south, southeastern Serbia, let's say in Piroth, every 17 citizens have a passport. On the other hand, two-thirds of our country's citizens support Serbia's entry into the EU. I don't think we have the right to deny them the EU right. This agreement leads us to the white Schengen, this agreement leads us to further integration into the EU. Serbia is on the black Schengen list today, and that is one tragedy. Instead, I think we should deal with this agreement, which will allow us to reach one of the EU's greatest values, which is freedom of movement for people. Because Serbia's citizens deserve it, because young people in Serbia, most hit by this problem, deserve it. Once again, I call upon you to be constructive here together and to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9389	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Rakovac has come forward, giving up. Thank you. Next, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported a certain kind of replica to Mrs. Pejica. I didn't say that what happened to Councilman Milivo Andric had anything to do with the president of Loznica municipality, Vido Petrovic, but I also said that he pointed out in a way that he had pointed out to some people from the police and the automafia, that he had pointed out where certain people were hiding, and I reiterated in my time that he was the initiator of the collection of eight thousand signatures for the impeachment of the president of the municipality and that he had filed a criminal report last December against Mr Vido Petrovic, for the reason that he felt that the abuse of the employment of some people in the then customs administration. Another detail, regarding the events and appeals of a colleague related to Kosovo and Metohija. The appeal is quite justified, but a few days ago I pointed out that the story of the election had completely put all the other topics in the second or ninth plan. I'm sorry that this is so, but it's obvious that for those who shed crocodile tears for Kosovo and Metohija, it's no longer a topic, it's a topic of fighting for chairs, the topic is elections, whether I want it or not. To point out another detail, you remember that the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee was scheduled, so it turns out that, for allegedly urgent reasons, the minister cannot go there, so it is scheduled for Thursday. For information, there should be a selection of new co-ordinators, new district chiefs Thursday, as the situation is completely alarming, for the simple reasons that the state of play in the local government of Serbian representatives is totally unsustainable and completely pointless, until the change is made, the Committee's session there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9391	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljan Rangelovic appeared, and then MP Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9392	Dear President, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have reported to you in accordance with Article 103. We've all been picking up all day in the Rules of Procedure, and I'm about to answer you, do we all know what we're reading here? It says here - Rules of Procedure, it's not a word card, it's not a discussion, it's a Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say nicely which member, then writes a quote well, which says - the speaker can only talk about a question that is on the agenda, so that article is read nicely. I also suggest to the Presidency, the President and the Vice-Presidents, whoever runs the session, you have the members 105, 106, 107, 108, 108, and 109 who very clearly say that any MP who does not adhere to this can be punished in some of the prescribed ways. I followed one part of my work here today, but I couldn't do it all, so I followed one piece from the hallway, so one part from the office, I came back here all the time, the same story. A few MPs spin their stories, no one talks about the amendments. Why don't we let the MPs who wrote those amendments say what they wrote. They made their proposal, if the Legislative said it was legally possible, and the Government accepted it or refused it, let us let these people convince both us and the Government to accept their amendments, let us give them a chance to defend what they wrote. This really doesn't look like anything all day. Each of us got a few dozen messages and called today with questions about what's going on, why is this, and don't say that you didn't, because I got a lot of messages today. This really isn't right and let's end this debate by amendments, because we have an agreement on visa relief, and we have young people who have never left Serbia, and you're talking about some elections, some councilmen who resign and you're just fighting for those chairs. Please, it says, "The Rules of Procedure," and inside it, it says what the Rules of Procedure is and what it applies to, and I ask you to just interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9393	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Slavko Jerkovic appeared, and then the People's Messenger, Dr Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9394	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we and how do we know how to read, not only to read, but to interpret the members of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you saw, we use every opportunity and all that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly gives us. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 100, of the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, Mr Dulic, has been allowing more than two or two or a half hours of MPs from their political option, as well as from the ruling coalition, to knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. They shall be reported by the Rules of Procedure, and few of them shall be called upon by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or by a member of the Rules of Procedure. That doesn't seem to matter to Mr. Dulic. However, I am reporting under Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I have been asked by a number of refugees and exiled persons from Republika Srpska's territory, this is more because of Serbia's public. Ladies and gentlemen, Republika Srpska has been occupied for more than 12 years. For those uninformed, for those who do not know, the Republika Srpska government acts in exile, acts in exile. They were fortunate to have come across an understanding of the SRS, which the SRS gave them unselfish help in the rooms and in promoting their programme. What is most important, especially regarding Mr Tadic and Zdravko Ponoš's relations, I am asking Mr. Zdravko Ponoš, in which he is related to Mr. Tadic and I want to get an answer to that question. Next question for Zdravko Ponoša, did he finish his technical school in Zagreb, did he graduate from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Zagreb and under what circumstances was he admitted to the military, that is, the former JNA, or the Yugoslav Army? Was its first appointment or its first production within the framework of military, or military surveillance, reconnaissance and reporting? I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9395	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Đura Mucenski appeared, and then a National MP, Dr Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9396	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely sorry that as my first address to the Assembly, I will have to address my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the citizens of Serbia in this way. When I was elected People's MP for me, it was an extraordinary honor and I was very happy, thinking that when I came to this assembly, I would do concrete things for the good of the citizens. Unfortunately, what I see and hear today, and these months I hear and hear, is something that is a disgrace to all of us who are in this assembly, because we are not here for political duels, for the sake of bickering, but for the adoption of laws on the benefit of Serbian citizens. Clearly, the theme of choice has imposed a whole new atmosphere in this congregation. What's going on here is a pre-election campaign and it's obviously started. Gentlemen of the SRS, I would like to ask you, Mrs. Verice, because I have always listened to you, or Mr. President, I would ask you to warn Mrs. Verico to listen to what I say. I've been listening to everything you've said, ma'am. I'd like to ask you not to count this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9397	Mr. Muchensky, just keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9398	Thank you very much. Gentlemen Radicals, you did not seem to realize that on October 5th, the people said that there was a lot of the country of isolation, that they wanted European Serbia, that they did not want the country as it was, that they lived in a country where there is peace, prosperity and where every citizen will feel safe. It's clear to me that you as an opposition are in charge of doing your job. If you're doing it tolerantly, you could and you're aware of the fact that we've been very patiently listening to what you've been doing in all these conversations and discussing all the laws as an argument, although it was once not the right thing to do. I appreciate that. But you're wrong if you think that, giving offensive facts about the man who gave his life to this country, that this country from the time of isolation would lead to European Serbia, and if you continue to express yourself abusively about it, that we will sit still and listen to all this, rather than go out to tell you -- gentlemen, what is your basic problem. Your basic problem is the election, because if you lose in these elections, and you will lose for sure, how will you explain to your citizens that you are the majority losers of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9399	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Dimitrijevic appeared, then MP Zeljko Ivanji. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic? He's giving up. MP Zeljko Ivanji? He's giving up. MP Sreto Peric? Here you go. Then he has the word National MP Goran Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, in your election, I didn't expect you to be the first link to break in a democratic bloc or a national group, call whatever you want. The moment we applied for a discussion in the Rules of Procedure, you began calling out the MPs who were not at all at that moment in the room. Now I'm telling you that I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure on Articles 100, 125 and 126. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens, who have had the opportunity in the last half hour to monitor the transfer of this assembly, you could see the firm and strong, strongest word in Serbia, and that is the word of the head of the DS parliamentary group, which comes before perhaps 200 MPs here and says - DS MPs will no longer appear in the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't take half an hour, people start answering the Rules of Procedure. That's not our problem. Here you go. But what you said at one point today - we need to stamp the amendments to the SRS. These are the same amendments that you're looking for right now and you're even saying -- they're constructive. Of course, we know that they are constructive and that these amendments will protect the insurance companies that exist in Serbia and should be preserved. Someone here said that Mrs. Hope Kolundjia, whom I respect as a lady, had changed four or five parties. That's her problem and I have nothing to do with it. There's another problem, which Mrs. Hope Kolundjia said next -- that pyramid banks have come up with, with which the SRS has absolutely nothing to do with it. On that list of friends, acquaintances and credit users from the owners of pyramid banks, of course, there is a large list of DSS members, there is no Mr. Vladan Batic to confirm it, and many others, and no member of the SRS is on that list. You said I didn't know how many miles of state territory was gone, people died. Every Serbian radical, including Serbian citizens, defended with their heart what could have been defended. Don't ever say that again. As a lady, I appreciate you very much, but what you just said is very scary. Mr. Milan Stanimirovic, he's not here right now, he's talking about some destruction. He's not talking about obstruction. He's talking about destruction. The destruction can only be done by those who are in certain state functions. Mr Markovicu, you and my esteemed colleague, Verica Radeta, did not make a very good conclusion, i.e. someone mentioned Kruševac - an old Serbian town that we Serbian radicals, just for one moment, love very much. Mr. Markovic, it wasn't the one who got rich, the citizens of Kruševec, the extremely good, honest and honest people, and it wasn't the one who got rich selling, cheating, dog meat, but what he didn't salt. The Serbian people say -- work a little when you're lying, and this one seems to be saving on salt. That's where he made his money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9401	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Stefanovic and then MP Branislav Nedimovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9402	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of Rules of Procedure under Rule 104(1). The dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia remains rough throughout the day, starting with local problems as regards the council, mainly the SRS, as regards some local coalitions we see and constantly question the expressed electoral will of citizens, which, in my opinion, is one key issue in the course of today's discussion. Since we are getting closer to the elections, it is indeed a key issue of the electoral will of citizens, as we see especially of those voters and citizens who declare themselves and give their voice to the SRS. We can see that in a number of municipalities, situations are happening, which are presented today by members of the SRS, that these same committees leave the SRS board club and approach another committee club or perform as independent committees. According to this story, it is not mentioned here today that it is not a problem with the SRS board that they, now mentioned by some motive in the context, as we have heard, payments, money or some other services by some groups, are acting. We have a situation here that is related to the local parliament of SO Vranje, where the SRS also did not respect the decision of their municipal board. So, there was no trade, there were no mutual arrangements and abandonment of the parliamentary group, but simply the SRS's committees did not respect the decision of the Vranje Municipal Committee and of the eight committees that participated in SO Vranje, only the three respected the decision of the Municipal Committee, and the five were left to support the municipal majority. In the municipal majority, the DS is not part of the municipal majority, but is comprised of the majority of SPS, DSS and SRS. In view of this whole discussion, spent throughout the day, we have tried to appeal and to say that we have important topics for discussion, that we have debate and amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, and especially given the new session of the Assembly that is scheduled, where one of the points of the agenda of the Constitutional Court law, which we all know is a burning issue, which we all know is necessary for the Republic of Serbia, so that, in any case, today's day, above all, does not serve the dignity of all of us individually, or the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9403	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Nedimovic appeared, and then MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9404	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, we have been trying for a long time to return the debate to amendments and additions to the Insurance Act and to the debate on amendments. First of all, I call on the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103, and I'd like to say a few words about it. We have a great need to make amendments to the Insurance Act. A few very important things lie in this bill. First of all, after two and a half years, since the adoption of the new Insurance Act, we need to bring some provisions into line also because of international integration, i.e. the possibility of joining the World Trade Organisation. One of the amendments proposed under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act is the amendment of our colleague, Neboja Stefanovic, to Article 3. The bill, which reads, is deleted. In short, I would like to remind you of what in the basic Insurance Act, in Article 26, where one piece is requested to be deleted, says: 'The Insurance Action Society shall be established by at least two legal or natural persons. Foreign legal and natural persons may, under the conditions of reciprocity (in fact, this is a key part, where the erasure of this provision is sought, i.e. the erasure of this clause of reciprocity) set up by an insurance company or by an investment company. ''The very important thing to emphasize when speaking about this amendment to our respected colleague, Mr. Stefanovic, is that the amendment should not be accepted, primarily because of a few things. That provision, which exists in the Insurance Act, stands, above all, because of the obligations made in the process of accession to international organisations and institutions, and one of them by the World Trade Organisation. It does not need to remind you how important this is for the citizens of Serbia and how important it is for us all here to take care of Serbia's accession to these international institutions. So that eradicating this interrelationship clause, which is set out in this amendment that speaks about the establishment of insurance companies, would prevent Serbia from joining the World Trade Organisation, and certainly that the citizens of Serbia would have a lot of damage, as well as all companies associated with the process of joining the World Trade Organisation. For this reason, I would like to invite you again today to talk about what is on the agenda, and these are amendments to the Insurance and Amendments Act. I would like to invite you once again that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are talking about this, and I would invite all MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure as one of the basic acts on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9405	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I'm advertising Article 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I ask you, why you did not exercise the right of Article 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. He says, "The President of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. 'All day, Mr. President, I've been following and listening to this. Serbian citizens are tired of taking care of them, in conditions where they are extremely difficult to live out. I'm asking you, you said at one point that you didn't initiate this debate, but you didn't stop it, Mr. President. Now I ask you a question: are you actually inciting obstruction in this House? The second question, Mr. President, the SPS MPs didn't fall into this mud that you dragged them into today. And they won't get in. They only reacted when false and false were brought forth, and mostly from those who deal with the past and today and whose past is the only future. We are interested in the present and future of the citizens of this Serbia. We only reacted to the Rules of Procedure when we asked for the answers that the citizens asked us to make. I'm asking you, why didn't you use the right, if you really wanted to preserve the dignity of this National Assembly, that the moment that such a debate started in the Rules of Procedure, you would interrupt the National Assembly session, you would consult with the heads of Parliament groups, so if it takes 15 times, until the time that the National Assembly is working properly. This is how I want to get to know the public of Serbia, we have an opportunity, we've always had a chance to observe how the opposition is obstructing, and it's some kind of legal means of fighting, it doesn't matter if there's a transfer. It's a legal means of fighting the government. This is the only case in Serbia when obstruction is done by the ruling majority and the opposition. Mr. President, there have been conditions to inform the government that they're all against, they're all obstructing their draft laws. Either let them withdraw all the bill's proposals, or let them, using Article 131. The Constitution, they ask themselves a question of trust in this congregation. This doesn't make any sense what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9407	Thank you. Mr. Petronivic, if you have carefully followed the work today, these days and recent months, you have witnessed that every time there was a problem in function, I have interrupted the session and organised meetings of the heads of parliament. Sometimes it's just not worth it. Today is one of those situations. I've tried every way I can to stop what's happening now from happening, it wasn't worth it. Don't accuse me of the obvious obstruction and harassment of this Rules of Procedure and harassing the Assembly and harassing this pay phone. I have not caused this kind of atmosphere in the congregation and this kind of work. I tried to return the work of the National Assembly after the afternoon break to normal; it was not possible. There's nothing left for me but to let the MPs talk about breaking the Rules of Procedure as long as it is. Once it's broken, we'll continue to work on the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veljko Kovacevic appeared. The People's MP Radoslav Milovanovic has the word according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the National MP Dejan Stojiljkovic. The word is by MP Dejan Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1), which states that the MP has an obligation to speak about what is on the agenda, and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is on the agenda. In front of the DSS, I want to appeal to all my colleagues again to get back to the subject. That's what I'm gonna do on this occasion. I would like to speak on the amendment of the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, who submitted to article 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. I would like to remind you that this amendment provides for Article 7 to be amended and read as follows: "Article 44(1) of point 7 is deleted." The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, reads Article 7 "Article 44 adds Article 3 which reads: "The founder to whom an application for an authorisation to carry out insurance operations has been rejected or rejected cannot re-apply the same request within a year of the rejection or refusal of that request. "To point out that Article 44. The insurance law refers to the refusal of an application for the authorisation to carry out insurance operations. There are exactly those criteria when the National Bank can reject the request. Therefore, the objective of the proposed Article 7 by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to set some time limit within which the applicant requests, if his request is rejected, he cannot submit a new request. Ms. Verica Radeta agreed, in the light of her amendment, that it is acceptable to set this deadline. However, Mrs. Rade's amendment practically refers to erasing one of eight criteria, i.e. on the amendment of the text of the basic Insurance Act and there are no defined deadlines in it, which the Government has proposed. So the text itself of Mrs. Radete's amendment is in a certain way contrary. By accepting this amendment in the law, we would still not have a certain deadline within which a new application cannot be submitted, and that is, in fact, a qualitative shift in the Law in this part, which Mrs Radeta has agreed on in the light of her amendment. Therefore, the proposed amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9409	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP John Tishma appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9410	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I do not know if I should welcome the citizens of Serbia, since I hear there is no TV transmission, but we did not come out here to be watched, as representatives of the SRS come out – yes, Mr Krasic – but to respond to the truths you have been making for months, which have culminated these days. I understand your anxiety about the problem in Novi Sad, because of Maja Gojkovic, but that doesn't mean you'll be able to fix the election result. Namely, what's going on in Ruma, what you've been saying today, there's a new coalition, your committees have moved to the other side, and that's fine. What's going on in Pazova, in Pazova you bought two councilmen, one you paid 10,000 euros, another 50,000 euros. It's the SRS work on the ground. And whose money? The money of the citizens of the Old Paz municipality. Don't throw it away, you can't defocus me. Last time I explained that you sold 18 hectares to a local tycoon, Mirko Shushi, for 5.3 euros per square. He now pitches and sells 35 euros. This caused damage of over 4m euros to the citizens of Stara Pazov municipality. That's not all, gentlemen. 15 days ago, you re-published a public auction of the sale of the country, and it came out in your "Justice" list to sell a country that is 20 times worse than the one you sold for 5.3 euros, which is not on the highway or along the highway. Imagine what the starting price is - 15 euros per square. How do you explain that now? It is the fair and fair authority of the president of the municipality, the Serbian Radical, Srda Komazec and his right-hand man Milan Končavić. A few days ago, you failed to hold a session, you didn't have a quorum because you had a fight over the division of the prey. The question is, how many will they share with each other, and how many will they carry to Zemun? That's how you do it. The next thing you know, there's a new spatial plan to be adopted soon, for which you fight with your heart, and for that you give money to bribe the councilors. One big company has a stake in it, you don't mention it. You're not saying that with that spatial plan, you're going to allow the company Delta to turn 155 acres of agricultural land into construction. Why don't you say that, you fair and fair radicals? On the other hand, I'll tell you how DS works. In the last meeting of the National Assembly, the Health Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, was adopted by the Republic Health Insurance Institute under the law, so that citizens of the Municipality of Stara Paz had to go to treatment at a clinic in Sremska Mitrovica. Everyone knows that in the last few decades, the Pazovci have been being treated in Zemun, which is 18 or 20 km away, for the longest 30 of the dwellings. This was brought by the previous parliament in which you participated. At that time, the current president of Srjo Komazec municipality was a National MP. Why didn't you submit an amendment to that, gentlemen radicals? No, you kept your mouth shut. You're submitting amendments to anything. At that time Mr Komazec was also the president of the municipality, which he is now, was also a People's MP and an MP of the province. What have we done, gentlemen? We're not looking for a solution in the markets and in the streets. We went to the right address, to the Republic Health Insurance Office. 15 days ago, the Republic Health Insurance Institute adopted a new regulation, which went out in the official messenger on October 26th, so from now on, the citizens of the Municipality of Stara Paz will be able to be treated in Zemun. That's what DS is doing, not pushing them 60 miles away, without bus rides.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9411	The word has the People's MP Zoran Despotović – quit. The word has an MP, Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9412	Mr. Chairman, it is for you to be expected, as an experienced MP and experienced chairman, to return this discussion back to its course, to discuss the agenda. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraph 1, as my colleagues from the DSS reported. In fact, having no other way of talking about the law, given that today we are wasting our time here in vain on discussions that do not concern this House, we have resorted to taking advantage of reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but to discuss the law and amendments, deeply convinced that this is the only way to bring this session to an end and maintain this Parliament's dignity. So, I am reporting for the amendment to Article 15(4), which was submitted by my colleague Dejan Mirovic. Namely, counterpart Dejan Mirovic predicted that article 2 should be deleted. I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, as no other amendments that have been tabled on this bill, which contain mainly one provision: delete, delete, delete, delete. The government of the Republic of Serbia has requested the amendment of the basic text of the Insurance Act, which was passed a few years ago, for the simple reason that time does its part, which is approaching certain European integrations and for the reason that further convergence of the WTO should be carried out, and thus the whole series of changes to this law is related to this matter. Among other things, and as for Article 15, which speaks of resecuritisation, the government has suggested that one part of that member be deleted, precisely for these reasons. The amendment submitted by my colleague Mirovic, which seeks to delete the proposal to amend the laws by the government, has no purpose and as such retains the basic text of the law, leaves us beyond the integrations that we need more than we need to bring the WTO closer. For these reasons, this amendment should not be accepted. I would like to make another argument that speaks in favour of the fact that this amendment should not be accepted, which is the fact that it is Article 25. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act provides for the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Act to be applied at the end of 5 years from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO. This means, in particular, that this provision would not be applied immediately, it would only be applied after a five-year period, so it's totally illusory to waste so much time. I would draw attention to the fact that this amendment today was on the agenda when the meeting began, so at 10.00 a.m., here, we spent our full working hours today, we didn't go very far, and therefore I would eventually take advantage of the opportunity to ask all the MPs to return to the topic, to return to the amendments, to bring this session to an end in the way that it suits the National Assembly and to preserve its dignity. Members of the Democratic Party of Serbia have worked all the time to be constructive to the end, reporting according to the Rules of Procedure, but whenever they report to the Rules of Procedure for Amendments, so we want to make our contribution to a correct and reasoned discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9413	Thank you, Mr. Rakovac. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. He's not here. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9414	Mr. Chairman, it wouldn't be bad for you to say in advance who the next MP is to prepare, since it's obvious we've lost order. I'd just like to say I'm reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure refer to the dignity of the National Assembly. I think the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are rudely offended by the ruling coalition by saying that all that is happening today is being blamed by the Serbian Radical Party. Without a doubt, the violence that appears to me to be spreading to Serbia, by local self-government and acting, I would say, a pre-election campaign prepared by the Democratic Party, is what causes this kind of work and it is quite normal to expect a reaction from the Serbian Radical Party. The Serbian Radical Party has always been ready for fair and fair elections, for elections that we will know both the date and all the accompanying actions that will be done under the law. And the involvement of the Serbian Radical Party during today was in this very sense, to prevent further violations of the law and the Constitution, to prevent this violence, I would say even some kind of fanaticism that we have been attending since 2000 and so on. This is how an undefined state, an illegal state which, I believe, I am convinced, the government in Serbia today encourages weak institutions, promotes a sense of restlessness among all Serbian citizens, promotes corruption and crime in all institutions and is deeply out of the interest of Serbian citizens. What hurt me the most during this debate, which once again by the ruling coalition is abused by young people, where it is claimed that this law, which we need to discuss after this session, allows young people to move more around Europe. I don't think it's a legal issue, the problem is in an economic situation that's very bad. Believe me, for the vast majority of citizens today, the problem is to get to Belgrade, to walk to the Prince of Michael, to have coffee in Prince Michael, let alone travel abroad. Therefore, all those promises by the ruling coalition that were made before 2000 are the problem of a deep disappointment for young people and it is extremely unfair and immoral to use them for this much ground floor political purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9415	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Miroslav Petkovic next.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, based on Articles 225 and 226. Since I, as a national MP, are not the clear double arches applied by the president of the Oliver Dulic National Assembly, and the minister of state administration and against local self-government Milan Markovic, so is the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. It is those who advocate the application of the law that violate him, in this case, when they, or the Democratic Party, respond. Now the question arises: is the Democratic Party fighting for itself or its own interests, or is it as a serious political party, a member of the Socialist International, seeking to respect the laws of this country? Number one, when it comes to Belgrade City and the mayor's election, where all the conditions have been met, the voters. When it comes to, say Bela Palanka, Ruma, Stara Pazova, Bogatić, Kula, Smederjevska Palanka, etc., not to mention, is immediately intervened, the interpretations of the Minister of State Administration and against the local self-government of Milan Markovic are being sent. There's a huge machinery going on, it's going on, next to the president of the assembly and even the Ministry of Justice, and we saw it in Ruma, the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, we have cases, two or three councilors of the Democratic Party in some local assembly, are launching a temporary campaign to take power by simple formula -- two or three committees are bribed, as we have the case, here again in Ruma, the majority of which depend, or threaten them, harassing their families and thus causing the crisis of the local parliament, which is a signal for the minister to introduce temporary measures more quickly and better. And the crime of bribery, the threat, nothing about it. This directly indicates that this way of dealing with politics has become a rule for the Democratic Party. The wave of upcoming radical victories in the next election will not be able to stop Oliver Dulic, Milan Markovic, or any of the DOS summits in this way. Also, Democrats are specific in yet another way of fighting the law, as I would say. What do they do where they don't even have a president of the municipality, and they don't have any significant parliamentary majority, say, in Svilinco? Mr. Bosko Ristic was often there during the president's recall. (From O.R.: I was, too.) ) Here, and Mr. Milivojevic. Dusan Jeftic signed under the motion for President Stojanovic's impeachment and many of them. You know what the problem is? The problem is that it's long gone, 44 people who died long ago signed a petition to impeach the president. Did anyone react to that? Did the Minister for Local Self-Government react? Is someone gonna answer for that? What about the families of those people who are in some way and in the other world defamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9417	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9418	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank the chairman for following my press statements and I can also recommend the gathering of the works of Miodrag Jovicic, an academic student who is a student of Slobodan Jovanovic. There's a book for me, so I can give it to you. However, I also had the opportunity to see Mr Albianic's collection, especially I like the first task in it that begins with the sentence - Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9419	I am proud, Mr. Petkovic, because I was the first to say that when the Constitution of Serbia was brought in. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9420	I'm glad you need to remind the citizens of Serbia as often as possible. Let's get back to the agenda. Since MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have practically processed five amendments to the insurance law, I will talk about a member of the 35th applicable law. In order not to waste time if I quote an entire member, I shall only quote point 3 of this article: ''that the applicant has requested, or has been associated with him in the last three years, a member of the board of directors, supervisory board or holder of special powers in the legal entity over which the liquidation procedure, or bankruptcy, has been carried out. ''The amendment and addition of the Insurance Act states that the words 'implemented procedure' are replaced by the words 'open or implemented procedure of forced liquidation'. In an amendment to this article, submitted by distinguished counterpart Sreto Peric, it was proposed that Article 5 be deleted. As far as this article is concerned, I think that the good explanation given by the Government and that we practically point out for this speaker all day, which is why it is not necessary to accept these amendments, where it stands to specify the exact ''limitation relating to the participation of natural persons in the insurance control bodies, so that the restriction applies only to forced, not to voluntary liquidation, as well as to the period since the opening of the procedure. ''It is clear from this why it is not necessary to accept the amendment of the honourable counterpart, so MPs of the DSS-NS Parliament Club in the voting day will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9421	The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9422	Since there are no TV broadcasts, honourable MPs and dear friends, I cannot speak to Serbian citizens. Under Article 226, I will ask the President of the Assembly, who is also not there, and that question would be: does the President of the Republic of Serbia have an obligation to respect the Constitution and the law, as well as all Serbian citizens, or can the President of the Assembly respect the Constitution and the law if he or she does not have to if it does not suit him? Since President Dulic has led this assembly, there has been a violation of the law and a violation of the constitution from the very beginning. Since the president of the assembly allows himself to violate the constitution, violates the law and does not respect it, he can expect the Assembly to respect the president of the Serbian Parliament and citizens to respect such a president. If the President of the Assembly were to behave differently, to respect the law, respect the Constitution, and this assembly would probably look different. I'm the president of the Kikind City Assembly, we have an opposition there, and our congregation looks much better, and the discussions are much better. These are both ours and yours, there are all of them. The problem of this assembly is in the president of the Assembly, which does not respect the Constitution and the law. He's shown that multiple times. First, which has not been put on the Parliament's agenda since the very beginning of the Constitutional Court, then has not called a vote for mayor of Belgrade. It is also likely because of some yellow democratic fever in this congregation, which is a yellow fever that does not respect the Constitution, does not respect the law or the will of the citizens. But there's a cure for this yellow democracy, and that drug is the election, it's the citizens who are going to cure this in the election. As much as the president of the Assembly fears that people's medicine, the votes of citizens, shows that he has not called the election for mayor of Belgrade, because he is sure of what we have been doing, that the only one who can win in Belgrade as mayor is Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9423	The People's Messenger Nikola Lazić has the word, and then the Messenger Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 103. Rules of Procedure, Section 1, where the speaker is said to be able to speak only of the issue on the agenda. Unfortunately, today we had the opportunity to listen to many stories, many debates, very few of which had to do with what should be on the agenda, that is, with what the taxpayers of Serbia separate money for, which is that the Assembly is working in their interest and that it is passing new laws to create an environment for the economy and any other renaissance of Serbia, which is in a really difficult situation. Of course, I will talk about the proposed law, as well as all the MPs of the DSS, and I will talk about the amendment submitted by Mr Milorad Buha, a distinguished colleague, and regarding the proposed Article 8. The amendment states that Article 8 paragraph 2 is deleted. In order to have a better insight into what it is, I will quote Article 8 which says that Article 47 is changed and reads: "The authorities of the insurance company are subject to a law governing the legal position of companies, if this law does not regulate certain issues differently. The director of the insurance company must be in a working relationship with the company, and if the company does not have a director, it must be the chairman of the Management Board in a working relationship." Therefore, the proposed amendment goes in the sense that this position 2 is deleted, with the reason that Article 2 of the Law does not comply with the Company Act. I don't think this amendment should be supported, given that, as the Government thinks, ''on the basis of Article 1 of this Article of the Bill, certain issues can nevertheless be arranged in other ways than those provisions governing the legal position of companies. ''Also, ''this change covers precisely those issues whose resolution is necessary for the further continuation of the process of stabilising the insurance market. ''However, since this is a very significant sector, a mandatory working relationship has been prescribed for the director, i.e. for the chairman of the board of directors, so that one quite serious matter can be arranged in one serious way and in favor of all. As far as the bill is concerned, it is very important for our country, both because of the arrangement of this area in the internal plan and because of the need for this area to be in line with international standards, which would show that harmonising this segment strengthens our rating state in which to invest. In the end, I will appeal once again to all my fellow MPs to stick to what is on the agenda, to respect all taxpayers in Serbia, citizens who have chosen us to work in their interest, to discuss legal solutions in this Parliament, not to discuss and not to deal with issues that are not on the agenda, because I fear that in such a way no one in this assembly, nor can Serbia's citizens be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9425	The People's Messenger Igor Becic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people is Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9426	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, reporting under Articles 225 and 226. We have a situation here that the DS, whenever it cannot achieve what it wants and blackmails the DSS, sends a copy here to come out for this pay phone, insults the SRS parliamentary group, to show hatred for everything that is not an DSS company, and then the DS as parrots mention the 1990s, mentions as if they forgot that they, gentlemen of the DS, have been in power for eight years, ten years of Serbia's collapse, ten years of robbery privatisation, eight years of tycoon and all that leads Serbia only to muskling towards the international community. We have a difficult economic and social situation, citizens who don't sometimes give their children breakfast in the morning, and we're just looking here, by DS, how to share their prey, how to divide public enterprises, how to privatise NIS and EPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9427	Please take care of how you address parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9428	It's just a question of whether in these eight years we have a road mob, a bankruptcy mafia, whether we're passing laws that are a sleaze to the international community and world powers, whether we're passing laws that can't be applied; well, let's say, that's how the Law on the issue of agricultural land in state property, a law that when it's a minister, Mrs. Dulic, then tells one thing and simply goes in the direction of destroying small farmers, and then when it's no longer a minister, it goes amongst those farmers and tells a whole other story. Then we also have today's insurance bill, which I think is like when a criminal returns to the crime scene, there should also be a review of Labus' participation in some insurance events and some other ministers. We have one coalition of DS and DSS, where we see each day showing hatred for each other, but still for the sake of survival in power, they always end up watching what party interests are, not what the interests of Serbian citizens are. Then they mention it -- the people said something in 2000. The people said the SRS is currently the strongest political party in parliament. The people also said Tomislav Nikolic won the first round for Serbia's president. And then we have one situation that then the former DOS is gathering on how little more to rob Serbia, how to privatise public enterprises, how to agree on the director and manager of the board of public enterprises, and all in the direction of further survival in the power of this unnatural coalition. We have some suggestions on how to stop this happening in the National Assembly. It is very easy: simply, it is necessary to unblock the event in the City Assembly, that these unnatural functions, which are not based anywhere, are neither in the Law on Local Self-Government nor in the Constitution, do not appear even as mayor of Belgrade. When you respect the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government, when decisions are made that will undo previous decisions and developments in the city of Belgrade, when elections are discussed for Belgrade mayor, then you will normally work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9429	Mr. Becic, I'm going to have to interrupt. The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic, then a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9430	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I also appear under Article 103(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I want to get the right to talk about Amendment 8 to Article 10. Proposal to amend the Insurance Act, submitted by counterpart Radisa Ilic. So the amendment provides for Article 10 to be deleted. In order to make things clearer, I would like to read Article 82 of the basic Insurance Act, which reads: "The insurance intervention business of the insurance company can only be carried out by persons who have the authority of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank shall issue the power to carry out personal security interventions that meet the following conditions... ''And in Section 4, in order not to read everything, ''A foreign natural person who, under the law of the state of which he is a citizen, fulfils the conditions for carrying out insurance interventions, can carry out these tasks, under the conditions of reciprocity. ''Article 10 of the amendment of this law suggested that the Serbian government, in article 82, be replaced by the words "persons who" are "employed in that person". In position four, the words "under the conditions of reciprocity" are deleted. So it is quite clear here that this amendment is unacceptable for the reason that the Serbian government wanted to specify Article 82(1) so that instead of "persons who have authority" it should actually stand "employees who have powers", which is for reasons to determine in a more precise way how insurance services can be contracted and multilevel insurance is prevented, because it is known that the insurance institution is being misused in this way. Also, when it comes to this second amendment, where it is proposed to delete "under the conditions of reciprocity", we believe that it is necessary to delete this provision, because in order for Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation it is necessary to bring domestic legislation into line, and one of the conditions is that there is no principle of reciprocity in the negotiation of insurance services.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9431	National MP Zarko Obradovic has a word and then a National MP, Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like fellow Members of the People's Parliament to inform that the SPS parliamentary group will not participate in this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for three reasons. One is that today's session is fully devised and the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and until it makes sense, I see no reason to participate. The second reason is that there is no direct TV transmission, and our principled view is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sessions have to be publicly transferred, and we feel that there is no need, there is no point and there is no reason to be in the hall unless the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see the MPs and hear what they represent. Thirdly, since we see that the election campaign has begun, we would like to know, we SPS MPs, either from Mr Dulic or someone else, when it will be the election date and what elections will be, to know what is happening in Serbia and what order of events is, so of course we will all deal with it as to who thinks we should.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9433	The People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, and above all I want to say something about discussions and I want to remind the gentlemen of the ruling coalition of certain things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9435	You must wait until this order is exhausted. I'm really asking you to make order in the O.R. Don't use your hands to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9436	They don't interfere with me. Albian, as soon as there's no transmission, you think you can do whatever you want, give it back. No one's bothering me. You're distracting me. Give me back my time, one minute and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9437	I can't give you back your time. Your MPs have taken up your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9438	Put that back, or I won't leave here. Give me my time back. You haven't given me my time, one minute and a half longer I'll talk. It's a minute and 30 seconds now. So, back in 2000, Mrs. Nado Kolundzija, when you took the shot to power, then in the camp of Nebojja Covic, I have to remind you of some of the affairs, regardless of the TV transmission. That's the rule of a thief's affair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9439	Dear colleague, please take care of how you address fellow Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9440	Sartide. Don't interrupt me, I'm talking great, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9441	I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9442	I purposely mentioned my colleague, Nada Kolundji, because she spoke to Mr. Milos Aligrudić, and I purposely mentioned you to listen to me. I didn't insult anyone, I'm not one of those. "A copy," and there's a cure for you, slowly, calm down. Let's get going on these thieving affairs. So, chronologically - affair, and then the main participants in these affairs, and here's five minutes when it does, then I'm gonna get off this pay phone. "Sartid", first affair; actors: Djindjic, Vlahovic, Djelic. Cementare - Kolesar, Janjušević, Vlahović. Sugar - Miodrag Kostic, Djindjic, Djelic. National Savings Centre - Djindjic, Dinkic, Djelic. Bodrum - Sutanovac, Vesic, Srdja Popovic, Ceda Jovanovic. Beopetrol - Zoran Zivkovic. Duvanska affair - Djindjic, Pudlica, Covic, Cane Subotić-Zabac. Road affair - Velja Ilic, brothers Nedeljković. Asphaltic affair - Zoran Djindjic, Chume... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9443	So, indeed, colleague Milickovic, you have completed your exposure. Thank you for that. Don't act like that on a congregation speaker. You cannot usurp a congregation pay phone. The People's Messenger Željko Tomic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9444	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 103, Article 1, which says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I am reporting for an amendment to the 15th People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, who reads that the article is being deleted. It explains that every legal and physical person must be responsible for the damage it does. No one disputed that, nor was it otherwise stated in the bill. On the contrary, Article 15 of this Act adds to a new member of 180a, the issue of the responsibility of the NBS, and the staff of the NBS who carry out surveillance tasks in the field of insurance, equalises with the responsibilities of those who exercise supervision in banking operations, thus simply putting the responsibilities of the NBS and its employees in certain sectors of work in the same position. Also, I have to agree with the Government, which the amendment cannot accept because ''for the damage done by performing an official duty is not responsible in the same way as for any other damage applied. This provision does not exclude the right to compensation for damages, but in accordance with the general principles of liability for damages, it is closer to determining only the responsibility for this caused damage, which is not in any way contrary to the provision of Article 124. Law on civil servants from the point of view of employee responsibilities. Such a provision cannot be considered unconstitutional, which is what I'm talking about. The same can be observed in relation to Article 35(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that everyone has the right to compensation for material or immaterial damage caused by illegal or irregular work by a state body, a public authority holder, an entity of an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government. The proposed provision refers to the protection of NBS and employees who carry out their duties professionally and securely, unless it is demonstrated that the damage was done on purpose or out of extreme negligence. 'At the very same time, I think the argument is very clear and concrete and that I really find this amendment superfluous and pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9445	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry there's no TV transmission tonight after six hours, because I just don't think that this day is lost, as someone here has said. I think the citizens of Serbia could see and hear a lot today and see what the nature and character of the DS are like to understand the essence of DS policy. Today, in Serbia, the DS does not choose funds to achieve one goal, and the goal is to position before the elections. So today we need to take power over those municipalities in which the government is otherwise not won by regular elections. It also needs to take over few local budgets that are not under the control of the DS, in order to have something to vote on, to buy citizens, to buy votes and to achieve the best possible election result. This is the DS objective, the objective that justifies all resources and for them all the resources in this situation are allowed. I'll just remind, unfortunately, only you here, that today in Serbia we have 19 municipalities where the state of emergency is. In 19 municipalities in Serbia today are temporary measures. A few days ago, Minister Markovic here said he was not responsible, because he is the minister only since May, but I will remind you that in the municipality of Užice the last session of SO was held in June of last year, a year and a half of this unconstitutional state in the municipality of Uzica. Minister Markovic could, when he was elected here as minister in May, call the elections in the municipality of Uzica, but he did not want to, because from that moment on, the DS has entered the Interim Council and can now join the other coalition partners with the funds of the Uzica municipality without the control of the local assembly. It's just one segment, one light on DS morale. Someone was talking today from the DS MPs about morality. Let me remind you, just remember those affairs here in this room that happened in 2001, 2002 and other years. You have introduced the theft of votes in the Serbian Parliament as a top democratic principle, you have voted from Thessaloniki, Bodrum. Here we also have video-recording, video-recording how DS MPs, unfortunately, over the bench, vote in line in front of other MPs' cards. Please don't talk about morale anymore. It just doesn't come with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9447	The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9448	Who about what, the DSS MPs on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must use Rules of Procedure, Rules 103 and 104. I said, under Article 103, MPs are obliged to talk about a point on the agenda, I associate with Article 104, because the discussion of many MPs who appear in the Rules of Procedure, who are outside the agenda, has nothing to do with the same, insults the dignity of this parliament and the citizens of Serbia themselves. So, like my predecessors from the DSS, now in these three minutes, and then by the end of this law, I'm going to consider the amendment and the addition of the Law -- I'm going to talk about the subject that's on the agenda. I would remind the MPs, those who forgot what was on the agenda of today's session, that the adoption of the Insurance Act at the end of May 2004 had been put out of force by the previous law on the insurance of assets and persons who, with more changes, started since 1996, with the last amendments in 1999, were in effect. As Mr Radojko Obradovic presented behind this speaker today, the solutions contained in this law adopted in May 2004 stemmed from the need to raise the quality of the performance of insurance activities in line with standards that exist in developed market economies. Therefore, the solutions given by the new law were also unusual, especially for our socio-economic and political opportunities, and therefore, after the beginning, as indicated by the Government's proposal, in the application of this law, there are some solutions that need to be specified or changed, which is why the amendment and supplementation, i.e. the Government's proposal, followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9449	Excuse me, Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Mijailovich, please take care of yourself. There are 10 seconds left, Mr. Mijailovic has created a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9450	Can I go on? How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9451	You have 10 seconds, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9452	I'm going to respect the Rules of Procedure, so I'm signing up right now to talk about the amendment to the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9453	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Mijailovich, I understand you won't give up? You're not giving up. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then a folk ambassador, Predrag Mijailović Luna. The pleasures never give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9454	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you can see, the DS is concerned that one day has failed, but is not concerned about what has been seven years of their mob work. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what I said, you said that because the bankruptcy mafia, the construction mafia, and I don't count all the mafias that have entered the pores of life today's Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when you came to power in 2000, you had major floscules or thesis, which is democracy, transparency, not to mention, fighting crime and thieving, privatization to know who the titler is, and then entering Europe. I ask you - where is Serbia today. Democracy, it's actually the will of the people, and you've shown that you've sent millions of people to the street, that an economic and social programme doesn't exist at all, that today there's a large number of those who use folk cuisine. As for your transparent work, you have transparently shown how DOS functions, or criminal DOS authorities. As far as privatisation is concerned, we know very well that Mr. Vlahovic and Mr. Petrovic, who are related to blood, have mutilated Serbia today. (President: Please take care of how you express yourself. Please, I speak the chosen words. It's very important, I think anyone who is a candidate or a member of the government should have been put on a medical trial first. Because, believe me, Dusan Petrovic is a man who used a neuropsychiatric clinic... Don't interrupt me, please... whose file is missing... (President: Please, Mr. Zivanovic, make sure you take care of what you say about the assembly speaker. )......................................................................................................... Because the man who treated him was appointed vice president of the municipality, back in the days when Dusan Petrovic was president of the municipality. Please, you have a fascist movement, as you can stop, sir, let me finish, because surely everything I'm saying is true, because I'm a Serbian radical. You're communist children. The same Daniela Lovrin is a communist child. She robbed the budget of the Sabbath municipality because she built a green market because she bought an apartment because she wanted her mafia marifetteluk to cover, right here, speaking of Serbian radicals. Ladies and gentlemen, you have abused this pay phone, not me, but you DOS mania, for seven years you have ruled and destroyed Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9455	Mr. Zivanovic, I warn you that you must take care of what terms you use for the assembly speaker, I seriously warn you. Mr. Mijailovich, what happened in the end? He gave up, constructively gave up. Thank you. The word is by MP Branimir Djokic. He's not there. The word has a National MP Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today on my first date for this assembly pay phone, I promised to follow closely what every speaker will bring out of this pay phone. I've registered certain lies, untrue political parties. So, first thing I'd like to say, before I start reading, is a short story about those lies. I have to draw your attention to this: since 2000, the results of the DS parole that says, "lived beating, lived corruption, lived robbery." A code of new life conduct and the value of life has been introduced in Serbia since 2000, where citizens are ashamed of honesty and work, where they are ashamed of their senses and laws. That's why I came out here today to read the quotes of individual representatives of political parties. Mr. Vukicevic of New Serbia mentioned it here today, in an afternoon debate over the assembly pay phone, or he put out a variety of nonsense. I don't want to remind now what the New Serbia officials are, because they're not present in the O.R. because I have a very rigorous chairman who steals every second of the SRS... (President: This is incorrect). ... who does not respect the messengers in proportion to their representation in the congregation and who does not have the same archaic, so I will shorten my exposure. An MP from the King, who jumped out of the tank, said we should get back to the agenda, and here all the MPs from the DS reported to the Rules of Procedure to explain it to us. Here they make up some lies about some municipalities in Serbia, accusing us of something they don't have concrete evidence of. I also recommend that you also chair Serbia's MUP to take a stenogram from today's Assembly and to include all charges of opposition MPs and positions in their work, and to get results, and then we will see nicely which charges are true and which are not. Then we'll have one problem, because the left side of this room will be half empty. The second thing, the G17 lady said here that the authorities of the MUP would do their part of the job on the case Mr Batic was talking about. He won't, Mrs. G17, the internal affairs authorities will do their part of the job, I know it best. I was beaten in front of the Sava Wreath Community. The MUP has never brought any reports, no solution, so the railroad between the government and the mafia has never come out. Of course, it won't come until the Serbian radicals come to power. Third thing, here we're reading some poems, some stenograms, some famous philosophers. Come on, when you're reading, let me tell you, since I recognize you've been reading Martin Hedeger, who reads, the time has come for sin to rise and the virtue to fall. This is evidence in today's assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9457	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic, and the Messenger of the people Dusan Stupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9458	Ladies and gentlemen, Articles 225 and 226. Political and state terror is happening today in Serbia, i.e. today we discussed problems in local self-government in Rum. Today we have informed you here, that is, we have just pointed out a picture of you taking over power in Serbia in a democratic way. What picture is that? This image has been seen, this image is recognizable, and this image is sent to the world in an uncultured, or unsupervised way. Why is this a rude and rude way? Because you use force. That force was seen on a TV screen. It has seen many people, many citizens, specifically in Ruma, make a small film, which can be an educational character and show in Serbia how these Democrats come to power at local level. We have informed you today, and we will inform you in every assembly here in the Republic Parliament until that moment until you realize that in this way and in that technology you cannot go any further. Why did the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr. Markovic, send police to Ruma? Why did he use a force of 100 men to take over the seal? This seal is a miracle, today the head of the parliamentary group of Mrs. Hope Kolundji, in my, say, address like this, focused and spoke, the seal with one particular accent. You can't take over and take the seal anywhere, and that's what you tried and wanted to do in Surcin, and you wanted to do it in Old Paz. For more than a month there, you demonstrated one of your recognizable comments, and that comment was meeting in front of the municipal congregation. We will most likely tomorrow, and perhaps in the coming period we will show you that what you are doing in Ruma is not in line with human and legal norms. We believe that surely in Rumi, the SRS will show that we are Democrats, we behave in a democratic manner, not like you. You have a prefix of Democrats, and we Serbian radicals... (President: Thank you, Mr. Služarevic.) One more sentence. A young MP here commented that they had won some political options in Petrovaradin. In Srem, Serbian radicals won by 40%, and what happened in Petrovaradin is probably some minor meat community that we... (President: Thank you, Mr. Služarevic.) )......................................................................................................... We're not even thinking right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9459	The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9460	Ladies and gentlemen, I've answered the Rules of Procedure again because you've prevented me from telling you about the amendment in the last three minutes. In addition to all the discards, we DSS MPs know our mission. Our job is to talk about the law on the agenda today. That's exactly what we were doing. I will continue to follow the amendment again, in addition to reminding you of the adoption of insurance laws, the time of adoption and some of the problems identified in its application, and the expressed needs for the adoption of these amendments and additions proposed by the current Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. I also have to say a specific word about certain amendments. In doing so, I hope you don't mind, because since we're reporting to the Rules of Procedure, we DSS MPs weren't able to report and follow up on the number of amendments, so we're going in the order they're marked. So there's been some impression that we've talked about an amendment more than once. We have sought to process all amendments, and what is common to most amendments, as well as Mr Sreta Perić's amendment to Article 5, is to require the removal of certain provisions of the Amendments and Supplements Act. In addition to the fact that such a proposal to delete a certain member in his own right is problematic and by putting the whole concept of the law on the wrong footing and seeking to lead the whole law through one solution to absurdity, so that it would be used for daily policy purposes that the law did not go well and did not pass, it has tried several times. It won't work this time, no matter what you're trying to defocus me and not speak. I haven't forgotten, I'm talking about the amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 5. Proposal for a law which reads: Article 5 is deleted. The amendment should not be accepted at all, with which we fully agree. No problem, I'll get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9461	The Messenger of the people, Dushan Stupar, and then the messenger of the people, George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, inspired by Mr Cvetkovic's speech on the respect of the MPs who submit amendments, Mr Cvetkovic, since I know that you were an MP in the previous assembly, to tell us... (President: Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure. ) The same as the previous speaker, according to the principle that your colleagues went out, Article 104, and a member to whom Mr Cvetkovic was recently called. Mr. Chairman, you took 25 seconds from me. (President: I'll give you your time back, you must appeal to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Cvetkovic, since you said earlier that you were taking care of the amendments proposed by the MPs, that you were seriously working on it, I would ask you to present for the next session how many amendments to the opposition were made in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2002, and how serious you did it, how many amendments you accepted. As for your theory of the legalism of the DSS, the head of the DSS Parliament Club Milos Aligrudic, visiting an RTS show, as the previous government, made one statement that should be entered into the Ginis Book of Records. That's one absurd. He says, "This government has worked so hard, we've passed a lot of reform laws." And the manager says, "I'm sorry, what are you going to do? '". Next year we'll apply those laws. That's one unintelligence. The law has been in force since the day of publication. That's how you behave today. Today you are transferring us to prevent you from working, that opposition MPs are making obstructions, but since the formation of the government of the new-old DOS, the laws that you had to propose under the Constitutional Law and that today you are calling for elections to be called, there is no law so far in the assembly procedure, only empty promises remain for MPs and citizens. As for the DSS, which in the previous meeting had the Minister for Local Self-Government, at the request of the SRS parliamentary group, we have submitted a request for a decision on constitutionality to call elections in the local communities of Starar. We have received a decision from the Constitutional Court, but the president of the Municipality of Zvezda Milan Popovic has not called elections for local self-government until today. That shows how you respect the court's decisions, how you respect the laws. In all these municipalities where you've imposed temporary measures, where it's past the law, where a certain deadline has passed, you also show that you respect the laws. It's also a fresh example in the city of Belgrade. In the end, I have to tell you, because six or seven years you've been talking all the time calling for October 5th. Gentlemen, the October revolution in Russia has not brought any good, and especially you have done no good to this people on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9463	The Messenger of the people is Djordje Mamula, and then the messenger of the people is Petar Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9464	I'm suggesting a breach of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, under which the MP is required to speak on the agenda point, and we are discussing amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments Act and the Supplements to the Insurance Act. Leave that pitch for the games. So, I'm going to talk about an amendment to Article 13 that was filed by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. This amendment has been deemed unacceptable, especially when it comes to the position of the 2nd member. It is clear that it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to join the WTO anyway. If this amendment were to be respected, it would therefore be called into question and the law and decision to join the WTO, which a large part of the civilised world has joined, so that there is no reason to delete the position of the 2nd member and to question the commitment to join this organisation. In addition, it is very important to pay attention to the fact that the sale of insurance services can no longer be done through different contractual relations through a multilevel system. Therefore, it is clear from the content of Articles 1 and 2 of the Law that it is in accordance with the Constitution, so that this amendment should be rejected. I don't think the DSS-NS parliamentary group will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9465	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, Jorgenka Tabakovic, Sulejman Spaho. Here you go, Mr. Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9466	Brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are two reasons why the course of this assembly goes like this. The first reason was said by Mr. Todorovic, to explain to us as soon as possible when you will call the elections. As it began in the Rules of Procedure, that is, the situation that has been happening and which is still happening in Ruma, the entry of the police. One of our MPs, I think it's Mr. Markovic, asked the president of the assembly to bring out MPs as soon as possible what was going on. If you'd done that, this congregation would most likely go as it should go. As for Loznica and that unpleasant event -- throwing a bomb under the car or at home of one of the council members of the Loznica municipality, Mr. Andric, I know him personally, and I'm sorry that this is happening right in my town, which I love most in the world, but we have to ask ourselves why. One reason is that there has been bribery in Loznica for a long time, corruption, and the reason is that out of the 10-15 thousand workers who worked at Viskoza, no one works anymore. Mr. Batic said Mr. Andric was in opposition. The real opposition in Loznica is the SRS. All the time since 2000, so far, we've been talking about crime, corruption, bribery, especially my smallness, as an MP, because I have opportunities through the media, which are written, which publicly, to call out, and I've called here several times the Loznica tycoons, who are committing crime, corruption or bribery in Loznica. Believe me, I can tell you that I've never had a problem, nobody threatened me, nobody threatened me or my family in any way, but there's got to be a question for the police in Loznica, and most of them are in the face of crime. And that's what we've been proving, and we've proven on several occasions that police officers were involved in the crime in Loznica, so I'm asking the police, not the password, but the republican SUP, to come and find out the perpetrator of this event that took place in Loznica. I'm glad Mrs. Kolundji came. I was talking about Mr. Andric, and you know him well, you were in the party together while you were in Mr. Covic's party. He sent me two days ago on his cell phone and said...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9467	Mr. Spaho, don't read the messages. Thank you. The People's Messenger Micha Dimitrijevic has the word, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9468	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one amendment to the chairman, concerning my name, I am Milan Dimitrijevic, and the nickname is as Mr. Vice President has said, so I consider it to be one of the failures I am reporting under Article 103 of Article 1 and Article 104. From Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says MPs should talk about the agenda, comes up with another thing, and the thing is that there are a lot of MPs in the Hall of Permanent Work in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, someone who sticks to the agenda – you hold on, Mr. Krasic, but you stray a little bit, you know – and receives money that even in the media is being discussed, you have to wonder what it's doing, and whether that money that's been raised from the register and that payout is due in this way. So that's one thing. The second thing is Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which says MPs should treat each other with respect. There's been a lot of talk here about various mafias, tobacco, travel, customs, this, that one, but I think of one fact and one condition from nine years ago. It was the time of Podkin's villages and high-speed railroads. Let me explain what this is about. It was a time when one composition of a couple of wagons walked 300 meters in the direction of Loznica and 300 meters in the direction of Valev, and it was like a fast track. It is interesting that the then minister of traffic, visiting on one television, which no longer exists, has answered the question of how far with the realization of the ideas of the high-speed railways has answered in the following way - what will make us fast tracks, the passenger sits in Subotica, the opposition to Dimitrovgrad in five minutes and there is no time for coffee to drink.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9469	Thank you. The People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9470	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to ask you to call in professional services to regulate this state of non-existent MPs in these ranks and by condition on this board.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9471	Mrs Radeta, I will give you your time, there are no nonexistent MPs, you see the MPs present, and as far as the quorum is concerned, it is determined at the beginning of the working day, at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Please continue your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9472	Mr. Albianic, there's something wrong with your hearing today. I wasn't talking about the quorum at all, but I was talking about the fact that the MP can't and can't leave a card in his identification unit if he gets out of the O.R. I have asked for this state to be corrected, because such a situation exists, unsuitable in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9473	Mrs. Radeta, let's get this straight one more time, I'll give you your time. Cards are important for quorum and voting, not important during the daily session. You know it's been changed by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Proceed to the Rules of Procedure, as you have answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9474	Mr. Albianic, that hasn't been changed in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure now states that when the MP comes out, he must carry a card with him. I don't know what Rules of Procedure you've read, but that's your problem. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today have been violated here since 10.00 hours by Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic and by the chairmans who replaced him as vice presidents today. It is amazing how you have different arches to the MPs of the SRS and to the MPs of the other parliamentary groups, and you, Mr Albianic, and the others who were in your position. You might think that we were talking today about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we were waiting for the time to end the television broadcast and that we would stop pointing you to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, that's not gonna happen. I remind you that we spent more nights in this House when only 23 to five hours in the morning spoke to us, at a time, of course, when there was no television transmissions. It's true that we are speaking to the public, but there are also stenograms and we want to be very serious, as we do this morning at 10.00 hours, and today, both tonight and as long as this takes, to work, unlike you gentlemen who have shown that you only have important performances in this place when we have television broadcasts. First, it's amazing what happened by the president of the DS Parliament Group, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Mrs. Kolundjia, at least I was shocked, that you were such an unserious woman I didn't expect. To get out here and say - DS MPs will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure. Five minutes after that, angry, angry like she didn't say anything, they can pick up again. We don't mind, let them answer now, but I see they don't have that interest anymore. As I am very surprised by the DSS MPs, it is fine, your intention to participate in this House's work is something that is very positive. But there's one problem, you've been trying to talk here all day about amendments advertising article 101. Rules of Procedure, which you of course know has nothing to do with each other, and I'm particularly concerned about your indiscipline. Well, you've always stood up for it if you talk about amendments that have to sit here as a minister. As you have now allowed yourself to talk about amendments, abuse of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Albianic, and to talk about amendments in the absence of a minister. I'm not finished, so please write to me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9475	You have to leave to come back. Thank you. I didn't think of your intentions as the chairman at all. I have the same relationship with all the MPs and you know it well. I especially warn MPs who do not use appropriate words for the congregation speaker. It's my duty under the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9476	Article 226: "The MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP". Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, give me back my time, I quoted the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic. (President: Only you continue your presentation. Here you go. ) Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in order to perform the function of the MP, I need the following notices and explanations: who has and on whose behalf sent a squad of hundreds of police officers to the Assembly of Ruma, the City House, as is otherwise called, to kidnap the seal, to remove the president of Mr Srdjan Nikolic's municipality, who is otherwise elected in the direct elections and has nothing to do with the Assembly of the Municipality? The President of the Assembly shall be elected from the ranks of the Board. He was elected in the direct election. The police wouldn't let him enter the City Hall, even when he was supposed to go where the Emperor went on foot. I'm asking the officials who sent this team, who sent that individual, who she represents, what she does at the Ministry, if she works at all at the Ministry, since the cops didn't have identification plates on the laps, so they couldn't read who they were, the name and their last name couldn't be read, they got the impression that the road robbers' system was running into the municipal assembly. We don't know who the woman who led the cops was, we don't know who the cops were because they don't have ID plates with names, we don't know on what document; because, you'll let what Minister Milan Markovic signed -- and please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you talk about Minister Markovic, say - Milan Markovic, I don't want to make sure that on the last name of Markovic that he's lying, stick to it – which is literally nothing. Not even an opinion, not even an attitude (the diagnosis you need), and this is a document that does not represent a document, it is a paper that does not mean anything, as it says above the Assembly of the Municipality of Ruma remains nothing, in the signature of Minister Milan Markovic. The minister says: "It is indisputable that at the 28th session of the Assembly of the Municipality of Ruma, held on 12 September 2007, after opening the session, Parliament Speaker Dr Ljubisa Jezimirovic found that the representatives of Ružica Divinic, Snezana Brkic and Ozren Bojic had resigned from the post of committee and that, according to Article 45(2). Law on local elections, suspended the term of office of the Assembly of Ruma. ''The minutes from the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Assembly of the Municipality of Ruma, held before that, have established the suspension of the mandate of the Parliament of Ruma. The head of the Assembly of the Municipality of Rum, following the opening of the session, found the end of the term of office. In this letter, a love letter, because it represents nothing else, Minister against local self-government Milan Markovic says -- namely, there is no term of impeachment. Delete this impeachment, but the resignations were on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, she found resignations, the president of the municipal assembly, after opening the session, found that he had suspended the mandate for the council. Erem, people have found a way to get some citizens into the boards. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking those who sent this squad of police to private buses, probably in private direction, because I see that there are a lot of cops who keep private businessmen, so it's probably in the private direction of this one that you've been running for the president of the municipal assembly that ordered a hundred cops, two buses and this individual, to take over power in a hiducous way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9477	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9478	We really agreed, I asked if he could, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr. Milickovic, you're the reason I'm calling. If in any way I personally hurt you by holding a session, I apologize to you, it was not my intention, but I am principled to all the MPs. If you use terms that are not customized by speakers I warn you. If in any way I hurt you personally, it wasn't my intention, really. That's why I called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9479	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9480	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are today discussing who knows which hour without television cameras. Then it can allow for a more relaxed discussion and discussion. I'll tell you what member I'm contesting right now, 225th and 226th, and I might as well be able to look back on it. It's clear what's going on today. We went out here looking for information complete: why did the militia have to intervene in Ruma, illegal and past the law? Which is why we're persistent, we've explained so much to you, precisely because the measure has already been translated. Several dozen Serbian cities have chaos in local self-government, have imposed, artificial, unwilled citizens elected management. Belgrade was one of the peaks, and Ruma is something that is the introduction of tyranny, which wants the end of our voters' will to be confirmed. That's the reason. If the speaker of the assembly had sought an answer or shown the will to answer, the debate would have probably run differently. We now have an interesting situation, as the position behaves. We've seen DS, come out and say -- you'll advertise the Rules of Procedure, and so will we. Then we say, well, we'll see our fellow MPs now, we'll hear them, some for the first time. And that was interesting for us, to hear many here for the first time, and what they know, and what they can do. They were also heard by Serbian citizens until 1800 hours. Then suddenly Mrs. Kolundji comes out and says, "No, we won't anymore." What's that? That's inconsistencies. That's the same thing that was on the trail of what you did the other day when you escaped from the assembly. The position leaves the Assembly. It's invisible and it's cowardice. DSS colleagues, what are they doing? Legals come out and say, "Article 103." Rules of Procedure, you have to speak, and you don't follow the Rules of Procedure. They start talking nonsense, no attendance, and article 87 says it takes someone from the government to be there, and then they don't need to talk, and then they don't get a word about the amendment, because the amendment is being discussed for 15 minutes and they're having three minutes of discussion. So let go of those stories. I'm signing up for the next discussion right now, so please don't let these manipulations that we've been exposed to all the time. Please respect the order. He can't leave anyone three times in five minutes, and we who signed up three hours ago wait two and a half hours. Please, respect the Rules of Procedure, as anyone logs in so has a word, and what you've introduced in an ana partes, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9481	The word by Business has Milos Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9482	Article 103(1) It says that MPs must adhere to agenda topics, and I would agree that it is difficult, when it responds to the Rules of Procedure, to talk about the subject of the agenda. The agenda is what's past the Rules of Procedure and on that side you're absolutely right. However, at the very beginning, I stressed this afternoon, after 15.00 hours when I announced that DSS MPs would participate in one specific way in this session, that we as well as others would use the wording of the Rules of Procedure to say something that is very unusual. However, this abuse was created to try to distract us from what is on the agenda, which is why we waste time all day. So they used DSS MPs an opportunity, calling for Article 103, using all three minutes at their disposal, to say something about the law itself, to comment on the amendments. The truth is that there is no real minister, the truth is that it is really not in that sense the right debate on amendments and the law, I accept it all, these kinds of objections I accept all, I respect and I think you're right, but for us there was no, because of the way the discussion has been going in this assembly all day, the other political choice, except that in this way we draw attention to what we think. Therefore, as I respect the right of others to say what they think, using the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure, so that is so much more than that than I ask you to respect our right to draw attention to what we think is important to us. Of course the minister isn't here. The moment this problem, which is referred to in the Rules of Procedure, when we enter into the debate on the law in particular, according to the amendments, at that moment we will have the opportunity to address the Minister, so that today we can take advantage of our right to say something about the law and the amendments that were on the agenda. It probably won't be to the extent that it's done today, but where it's needed, we'll have, of course, our own reaction and we'll talk. Whether there's a TV broadcast or there's no TV transmission, it doesn't matter at all, they're right MPs who said that, whether there's a TV transmission, what's being said here stays in the record, we just wanted today in the record to stay that we talked or tried to talk, in one maybe unusual way, about what was meant to be on the agenda. It was our way of expressing ourselves. Who has something against it, any honor to him, but right now I'm just saying, no matter what we've done so far, we've exhausted almost all the amendments to the members of the law that have been of direct interest to say something, at this point there's no reason for us to continue to participate in this way, and I'm ending this. As for further reports on the Rules of Procedure, the right to tell you, we don't have any ambition to do so right now. It was important for us to finish what we intended for the record and for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9483	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9484	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS certainly don't mind that other MPs present their political programme and manner of exposure in the way they think is most useful to them. In the past, we have largely had examples of representatives of ruling parties in the media dealing with the MPs of the SRS precisely by calling our discussions an obstruction of work. It was hard for them to remember. We are now discussing here one day and many are already expressing regret that it has been going on for too long, how it costs, how it is, how it is, how it is. However, when you remember the 1990s when DS MPs, using their democratic right, submitted 2,000 amendments to one law, then amendments could be spoken of much longer than the current 15 minutes, unlimited. If we applied only the measures much more rigorously, today, to those 2,000 amendments, and those 2,000 amendments were spoken of for 15 minutes, if we counted that the working day would last 12 hours, refused Saturdays and weeks, we would come to a figure to discuss these 2,000 amendments for 58 working days. Of course, then, that wasn't the problem. The problem is when we use our democratic right to show that the laws you propose are harmful to the citizens of Serbia, even in this Insurance Act. The amendments we have made we want to show you that, regardless of what you say, it has to be due to a consensus with the World Trade Organisation, etc., the laws do harm the interests of Serbian citizens. If we were a serious country, a serious assembly, we would put Serbia's citizens' interests first and make sure that they are ultimately damaged, no matter what we agree or disagree with. This is what a serious country, the large countries that are members of that organisation, does. You have cases, here we voted here and convinced you, begged you not to sign, not to ratify the CEFTI Agreement, because it does in many areas damage to the Republic. You adopted this agreement here, and after that, the government immediately decided to keep the monopoly in the field of oil derivatives, which we were saying would be a very big shame if it were liberalized, our refineries are not currently ready. Then why have we ratified the Agreement, if you still hold those monopolies we talked about before. We're showing all the senselessness. It's about travel, passports, young people. We do everything we do in fact to liberalise the visa regime for the holders of diplomatic passports. Young people who need to travel, first of all, don't travel because they don't have money. Try to understand that we are telling you this because we are just fighting in the way we think it is most useful for the citizens of Serbia and that in this way we will continue to provide them with a better life, not to fight for the carriers, the owners of diplomatic passports, and, when this law comes into force since January, and members of their family, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9485	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9486	I'd just like to rely on my exposure just now as it was, since Mrs. Kolundjia is not here, Mr. Ristic, please pass on to her what I'm about to say. Since Mrs. Kolundzija was once a party colleague with Mr. Andric, who was assassinated, and were in a party with Mr. Covic, he sent me a message on 25.10, at 1200 hours, and he says - I should give you a CD about Kolundzhija to see who she is, it's just me. Write down the number, 065-5999999. Ask Mr. Andric what and what kind of CD he has, most likely whether today, tonight or tomorrow morning, we'll get that CD, so we'll let you see what it's all about. They used to be colleagues in Mr. Covic's party together. It's about the man being assassinated, and he's got Mrs. Kolundji's CD. How do we know why and why the assassination was committed? That's what this is about. You're a lawyer, you should know so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9487	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9488	Mr. Judjevich, today's debate is going extremely well. I'm referring to Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, it's a provision that says a government official has to normally write an explanation of the bill. I claim that there is something wrong with the interpretation of the bill and with certain provisions of the bill. I don't mind what all the best in those provisions have seen these Kostunicas, but they have seen something that doesn't exist. They see everything. A representative of the government is not here and for the sake of the public, if the public ever sees this video, I must say, this time the radicals did not want to leave the National Assembly session, although there is no transmission. Why? Because they would quickly manipulate these 17 amendments and would pass them such a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act that would legalise crime. So, count, today we're going to talk about the Rules of Procedure for a number of reasons, until you leave this room and make it so impossible for you to interrupt the session, to start a session at a normal time and inform the public about all the details, what lies behind this prank called the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Of course, your scenario was for nervous radicals to make some alleged incident, and then for them to start spinning for the next 750 days. Your script's gone bad. Forget him. Let's go get the Rules of Procedure, I guess the public will have a chance to see this video. In the following reports, and we're all going to report to the Rules of Procedure, use the right that you use, I'm glad that you're using your right, I don't mind that breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, because that's the only way you can open up and get the truth out. I have to tell you, from the SRS' point of view, we're extremely pleased when we're being attacked by the former presidents of individual municipalities in Vojvodina, you know what an SRS commercial is. Comes out Srdjan Milivojevic, we get two percent right on the commercial. So you don't blink and we get two percent. Why? He's disgusted with people, turning off the TVs. You know the screens lately are extremely clean, when they see you some time out, they spit on the screen, so they have to delete it and it's always a clean screen. So, in the next report, we will be even more specific and we will talk about concrete crimes, individual MPs, individual ministers. How long? As long as you don't realize you've made a very bad script today. I have to distract you. This will come back to you. Why? What you're teaching us by virtue, you're also letting us know that they're legal. When we're in power, we just need to apply your standards. We'll never be? Come out manly, and explain to the pay phone that we'll never be, convince your home first that we'll never be, and I doubt if you can convince your home. Can't get past nature, remember. So, Mr. Djudjevic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, no matter what you sign me in here, Colic is applying for a man, 16 times raises his hand, and you're not going to sign him up on purpose, not you, but that Micko before you. Put me through the Rules of Procedure, and then we'll do it by law, by amendment, and we'll remember that we've long finished importing the labour force, as your beloved president said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9489	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Colic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that I have waited a long time, I have finally welcomed it, but we Serbian radicals are used to all the different political struggles, all the blows and the wrongs of the regime, it's not our first time. What I'm trying to say is that I'm truly sorry that Mr. Dulic isn't here, I'd have a few questions, but he'll remain recorded and recorded somewhere, although there's no TV transmission. The president's office, the Serbian Parliament's president, is extremely comfortable, with many privileges, and with the driver, bodyguard, and I don't know what everything, and a great role, deserves nothing in Serbia's public political life. Mr. Dulic, if he were a man of honor, should speak his mind, raise his voice against all irregularities, against all violations of the law in the country of Serbia. I would like to hear his position on the state of local self-government in the municipality of Ruma, where 100 special forces are coming, is it democracy, is it the law on choice, about local elections, whether it's the Law on local self-government. Today, under the circumstances, with my colleagues, I witnessed the terrible scenes on block 38 in New Belgrade, with Mr. Sekulic, with Despotovic, and I saw, there were 100 special forces in Ruma, and there were fewer, around 50. You know what the problem was? It's about a meter [5 m] of kiosk, and it's supposed to be done by a Belgrade power man from a yellow thief's company, so it's about a meter [5 m] on a Serbian orphanage, and then 50 specialists. It's a feature and a mark of your rule. Now let's see, you're talking about Smeder, I'm an MP from Smederov. Who's on hair in the Smederevo municipality? It's been a year since it was temporarily bigger. You know how, Mr. Shormaz calls Mr. Lonchar, then the minister against the state administration and the local self-government was Mr. Lonchar, and then Shormaz calls him and there's the Temporal Council. Do you know who's on the hair? Two yellows, two from the DSS and there's the G17. The G17 power in Smederev, but the G17 did not pass the censorship in the election, and it is the power. You're marathons, you're yellow, you're running the last lap. Who knew you, children, and hell will not fall on him. The people invented a song - what is yellow in the green mountain, or what is bad smell or is a Democrats, there can be nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9491	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are no longer capable of being able to manipulate and ideological indoctrination to preserve the domination and hegemony of today in the state. That's why you're trying with various means to show your democracy, but you yourself know that democracy is the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you once more for this pay phone, if you look, and I'll start slowly, because there's still time to read all about candidates who are for the government, and that's Master Bozidar Djelic. Look where he worked. He worked as a adviser to the government of the Russian Federation in the area of privatisation and reform of the banking system, as a adviser to the Romanian prime minister in the area of microeconomic reform, worked as a adviser to the Government of Poland in the area of privatisation and microeconomic reform. He came here, gentlemen, you know, became the knight of Meridian Bank, where he robbed, and you know where, how and how. As for Mirko Cvetkovic, look only, he was the director, at the end of his post, of the Privatisation Agency. Along with Mr. Vlahovic, he robbed Serbia. I have to tell you, he also robbed the economy of the Sabacan municipality because he privatised criminally, every company was criminalized along with local tycoons, and most of the time with the president of the municipality, Dusan Petrovic. If you look at young and promising Minister Milan Markovic, who was the chairman of the PKB Management Board in 2001 to 2006, then the Vice-President of the Management Board of the First Five-years from 2002 to 2003, and we remember very well how you were all those who were either members of the Management Board or chairman of the Management Board after the five-October revolution. Look at all these companies where they are today, headed by your people, who you've been setting up as ministers today. Not to mention one famous minister, which is Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister for Agriculture. He was the minister of trade, and became president of the Chamber of Commerce afterwards. He replaced the famous President of the Chamber of Commerce, Radoslav Veselinovic, also from Sapac, the owner of Galeb, who kidnapped the firm "Mepritlastika". Okay, I'll move on to where I left off in the next call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9493	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet, the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9494	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Judjevich, I really don't know how you're making this order. Obviously, we've been having a problem with this all afternoon. It really needs to be kept in mind that the MPs here speak in order to register. There is no one who has responded to the replica that has priority over the MPs who have called to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. I guess that should be clear to everyone. I just intervened and now I repeat that it is necessary to call for services to regulate this issue of non-existent MPs in this room. Apparently no one has any intention of doing this seriously. All right, we're still gonna draw your attention to that. We have today tried to draw your attention to a part of the abuse of official positions and the role of representatives of the ruling coalition, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, of the ministers' obligations towards MPs. Of course, you obviously take that as an unfortunate story. I will now remind you and continue in my next report, I will only speak of it, at the obligation of Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Against Local Self-Government, on his obligation to address the Committee on Local Self-Government of the Republic of Serbia and to tell us whether, in accordance with Article 111, he has taken the appropriate measures to put aside the power or repeal illegal decisions taken in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, in which I remind you, the transge-fange combination between DS and DSS, where Zoran Alimpic was elected president of the Belgrade Assembly. Now I'm going to read you only two dialogues that took place that day, October 8th, at the City Hall session. Mr Dragan Todorovic asked the chairman, Branislav Belic, at the moment when the former president of the assembly, i.e. still, in my opinion, said he resigned: "It is not the next session. Is it clear to you that you have scheduled 20. What's this - 20? It's only 21 next. Do you understand that? The chairman says, "No, it's not." ''Then, in a further discussion, Mr. Todorovic draws his attention that he had to schedule a new session and repeats, 'What is the next session, tell me? '"He says, 'will you be kind enough to, I guess, break up. Dragan Todorovic says, "But tell me, what is the next session? President Branislav Belic says, "This session is next. '"There, it's only part of this story. I'll continue, of course, and write to me in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9495	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is the word Bosko Ristic. He's not here. Srdjan Milivojevic -- not there, Petar Jojic -- is not there. Paja Boys, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9496	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are continuing our debate. I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and I have previously been 225 and 226 in connection with the unauthorised manner in which this session is conducted and the Rules of Procedure is being violated. Please, the ana partes can't be released and the pay phone can be used. The Rules of Procedure and registration must be respected. Serbian radicals applied first, right, to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and then suddenly the president brought a Solomonian solution -- everyone will report. You see the combination of an ana partes to do. You could also see that Mr. Peter appeared three times in 15 minutes, and those of us who applied three hours ago for a word couldn't make it from his turn to show up next time. He's three times, he can't do that. That you're playing democracy and assembly now as you like, you can do it. Someone here said, ladies and gentlemen, that yellow paint bothers us, that yellow is the sun, right? And if so, we don't mind. You must know that the sun is the star of the main series of G2. She, if we're to be honest, falls into the middle-sized stars of that line. It's not some big star. It doesn't take too much to brag about. When all I'm saying is that the duration of that star is 10 billion years, and if five billion has already passed, you think since you're half, and that's 50 percent, and it's simple mathematics, that Albianic is there, he would explain it to you, right, 50 percent since you've been founded, so you see what you admire so much. There's another thing to say. When some of you come out here, then we suspect that yellow has an epithet of the sun. It doesn't look like anything. Pre-provoking some other associations mentioned behind this pay phone. I wouldn't go into that kind of debate and that level, which your parliamentary group's sanitary platoon sometimes demonstrates here. My profession obliges me not to talk about certain bizarre performances of people who come out here, and then play high learning, that grotesquely looks, high learning, to talk about dirt and dirty things. Of course, that doesn't bother you. I'm saying my profession doesn't allow me to go into deeper analysis, but if necessary, we'll be able to get into all that. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9497	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9498	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, regardless of the lengthy debate, have shown that it has an effect and that the time has slowly come for some things to become clearer to you and that you realize that something is going to have to change. I am personally certain that there are a small number of MPs here or perhaps there is no MP who would agree to any violation of the law by any side. In this situation, the worst thing for you is that you don't even participate in this. You're simply coming into a situation where some of the clumsy, not to call another name, you have to defend your actions here, which is completely impossible. You realize for yourself that the arguments are such that you simply are unable to deal with the facts that make you aware of the MPs of the SRS. Because I'm sure there's not a single MP here who, if in any place, would have ordered that, that's a private order, a hundred special forces be directed to some municipality to take it, to prevent the entry of the president of the municipality, who was elected in direct elections, to prevent the entry of the commissioner, etc. We were trying to make it clear to you immediately, however, you were hard-core to defend it. In this debate, we came up with one thing that completely showed that we were right. And you started talking to the Rules of Procedure, even Mr. Aligrudić said it nicely, we were provoked, which is totally fine. We're human beings alive, flesh and blood, and it's normal for certain things to provoke us, to put us in a position to react. But you realize that we're provoked, not by your behavior, but by the behavior of the government, and that we're trying to make these things, as a Parliament, kind of stamp so that they don't happen again. I know and I don't believe that any of the MPs would agree that the government in any municipality won by the police, and when we brought it to you, you had a very simple way out, so that we wouldn't lie, that we wouldn't lie to the citizens of Serbia. So we claimed what we were saying, you could say it wasn't true, you could interrupt the session, in the meantime you could ask one, the other, the third ministry, the papers and see if we were telling the truth or not. So if you go out for a pay phone and say, you deceive Serbian citizens, deceive the Serbian Parliament, here's an order from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, there's someone's command, by that and by that member, and that, and that, and that, and the thing would be over. What are you trying to do? You're trying to eliminate our arguments completely by talking about the obstruction of the Assembly. It can't go through anymore. We warned you about Belgrade. You mean, it's been a while, it's been a month, it's been a month, it's been a month. It happened now in the Ruma municipality, and tomorrow it's going to be in another municipality. We just won't tolerate it anymore. As for today's work, we'll stop reporting to the Rules of Procedure. We think things have been led to such a point that further reporting today according to the Rules of Procedure is unnecessary. We think we should end this, and in accordance with the following points, or the way you function, we will normally act in accordance with some of our political interests that are completely legitimate. You make sure you get ready to provide us with the answers to the questions we asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-29-0.u9499	Thank you. Thank you for giving up reporting to the Rules of Procedure. We should continue to work on the amendments now, but I don't want you, who wrote the amendments and in this way wanted to fix this law, to discuss your amendments without TV transmission. Also, I don't think it would be right to discuss amendments without the minister's presence. That's why we're going to interrupt this session now and continue tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you.
