ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13986	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. On the basis of the official record, 107 MPs attend the session. To determine the quorum, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, which is more than one third and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic, Alexander Marton and Nenad Canak. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. YEAR (with accompanying documents) We continue our work with a principled search and I give my word to the MP Radoslav Jevremović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, and this proposal is nothing more than trade between parties of the ruling coalition, or their ministers in the direction of who will receive more money from Serbian citizens, and as it is known to no one to account for it. It can be said that this budget, i.e. the draft budget, has managed to meet all interests and needs of the ruling coalition's parties because it has been changed several times, so that it will eventually be the bond that binds and unconnects. If that relationship will survive, we'll see. What is important at the outset is certainly the adoption of the 2008 budget, which is planned in the amount of 639,600,289,635 dinars and expenditures of 654,429,163,862 dinars, which leads to a simple conclusion that you will spend what is not there, amounting to as much as 14,828,874.227 dinars, i.e. the economic deficit of this budget proposal is almost 15 billion dinars. How you will reach 15 billion dinars to fill the budget is clear -- through debt, by raising credit under very unfavourable conditions, and on the burden of Serbian citizens. When you look at this detailed analysis, or the schedule per user, no matter how much you try to hide it, some things always come up. On page 12, section 2, function 110, economic classification 422, relating to the President of the Republic, the planned travel costs are 43 million dinars, which is simply an amazing figure when the effect of these trips is known, and it is flat zero. On page 13, section 3, Chapter 3.2, Function 111, which concerns the Deputy Prime Minister, allocates funds of nearly 92 million dinars, which is more than 32 million dinars over the funds allocated to the cabinet of the Prime Minister. The question is, what does that mean? Does this mean that in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, they are doing nothing, so they need a smaller amount of funds, or might the Deputy Prime Minister be more important and important than the Prime Minister, so he gets a larger amount of funds? It is a very interesting explanation of the spending on individual users, which concerns the cabinet of vice-presidents of the government, which reads: "In the context of the defined funds, the largest participation in expenditures has the cost of travel related to the achievement of the priorities and the long-term strategic objective of the Republic of Serbia with regard to EU accession, particularly regarding negotiations on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and wider support towards faster integration of the Republic into European flows. "For these travel expenses, you will have no need because anyone who has any morals and humanity can't be friends with someone who takes away a piece of his territory. On page 14, we have a press co-operation office, which stands out 76 million 152 thousand dinars, which is a large amount, especially if it is known that the job should be done by the general secretariat of the government of the Republic of Serbia, rather than by the office as a special authority. The reason why this is done by a special organ is to create an opportunity to employ a certain number of your personnel. On the same side 14, in Section 3, Chapter 3.5, Function 110, is the EU Association Office, which sets out 78,947,000 dinars completely unnecessary, as it is clear to all that there is nothing since joining the EU, at least in due course, and especially after the stance of some EU member states on the future resolution of the status of the province of Kosovo and Metohija. As I said, joining the EU is an impossible mission and there is no need in this way to increase the costs of such poor citizens of the Serbian state. On page 16, there is also the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991, with a sum of 53,404,000 dinars, and nowhere in this distribution there is an office for the defence of a person who corresponds to The Hague tribunal. This money is only spent to meet the demands of Carla del Ponte. On page 20, Section 5, Chapter 5.8, Function 330, was also taken up by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, with an amount of over 67,000,000 dinars, and here's another division for Carla del Ponte, because this prosecution is prosecuted solely by Carla del Ponte, and no one is trying to bring to justice the Cypriot terrorists who have committed numerous crimes. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is like the previous period in the last place, and it is concluded by the amount allocated to agriculture. You do not consider that farmers need larger funds for short- and long-term loans, for the creation of new production and purchase of machinery. You farmers only remember before the elections, when you give certain people a little credit, and then you go to those same people and take pictures in an election campaign. You don't really know the situation in agriculture, because you've never been among the right farmers, and as you do, I don't know if you should go. Through this draft budget, there is a large number of agencies for all and all things, translated - for the adoption of your personnel, and it is also evident that none of these agencies gave the necessary results, so it is really unnecessary to allocate huge resources for the work of these agencies, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. It should also not be missed to mention the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations, which did not start working, and it needlessly allocates funds from the budget. All in all, the budget was very badly done, but we didn't expect any better from such experts in the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13988	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first and foremost, what can be said about this bill on the budget is that it is pre-election, that it is inflatable, that it does not regulate many things that should be regulated, that it is consumer. Let's go from point to point. Budget expenditure set out in the following amounts, according to point 1.5, grants to international organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what are the international organisations that the state of Serbia will have to touch? Could these be funds returning to NGOs through Soroshe's foundation and other foundations in this country? They pay mostly those who work on the head of Serbia and the Serbian people. The NIP projects account for 4.150,000 euros, and the NIP is mainly used in the election campaign. The NIP funds are primarily placed in municipalities in which the "yellow-yellow" coalitions are in power. Flight control; we recently contracted a loan that took control of the flight we had here in front of the MPs. I remind you that flight control is the biggest spender in this country and that it literally wastes funds by selling flyovers over our skies. Nikola Stankov, director, who is reported to have about 1.6 million receipts a month. Flight control is the only institution left, so to speak, a link between Serbia and Montenegro. Not because the sky is above Montenegro so much that we can extract funds because of the overflight of Montenegro's territory, but only because it will be easy for the interstate company to cover many of the costs of flying control. We are the only country that has given, not to tell a private company, because flight control is a company where the state of Serbia has about five percent. There are over 800 flights per day, and it's worth $1,200 and up. Of these funds, the state of Serbia sees nothing. Whose sky does it sell flight control? Whose sky are those planes flying? In addition to the remarks I made here when the military minister was here, we can't, or that flight control doesn't control military planes flying over our territory, so we literally don't know who's flying over our heads. Serbia's roads; Novi Sad-Belgrade highway, Horgos-Pozega, is also part of the funds. The General Secretariat of the Government - 161 million and the salaries at the General Secretariat of the Government are 161,331,000 dinars. When you look at the salaries, you can see how busy the Bulldozer of the Revolution is in these state institutions, how much red tape has grown. Bureaucracies are divided by the amoeba system, of one two, of two four, so you formed jobs to house all those who carry your party books, even if they didn't do anything for your party. Human and minority rights service - 37 million. How many employees have the service of Serbia's Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, which is the qualification structure, and who are these staff who are employed here? I remind you that this body was run by a certain Nebojsa Covic, who is now no longer in political life, but in the meantime has been well undermined and secured, to remind you that in some ancient times, in the first beginnings of privatisation, this man bought an FMP -- as well as how much money Serbian citizens do not know. There is another issue that is eye-wrestling - the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for the serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since I am a member of the team that helps prepare for the defence of Doctor Vojislav Seselj's professors, who brilliantly "wipes the pathos" with the first expert witness last night, last night the citizens of Serbia had the opportunity to see that he defends not only the accused, but how he defends Serbia. The National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, I personally carried requests for certain data several times, some documentation, which the state of Serbia had previously delivered to The Hague tribunal, related to the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj. To this day, many of these papers have not come to a team that helps prepare the defense of Doctor Vojislav Seselj. At the same time, these funds pay all those spies who are chasing these people who are being charged before the International Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what this National Council Office, what this National Council is doing in the state of Serbia, and for that it is being paid hugely, is a classic form of usurpation and the last dinar to be separated for this. Because literally in favour of the Serbian state, the defence of the Serbian state is doing nothing. Of course, the team that helps prepare the defense of Dr Vojislav Seselj has in other ways managed to obtain a large number of documents and the results of the collection of this material you could see last night, you will be able to see tonight, you will be able to see both in January and in the next days of the trial. The youth talent fund is also questionable. Just a few more things, considering I'm running out of time. He says so - the Ministry of Finance, then says - executive and legislative bodies, financial and fiscal affairs and foreign affairs. When you look at how much money is allocated for this, you see that it's one of the most expensive, to say it, the office -- that the state of Serbia costs the most. All in all, it has been seen that this budget will be about in the prime zone of the presidential elections and that is why this blatant spending of money, which you are taking from Serbia's citizens, every dinar, every euro in this budget, is, in the end, off the back of Serbia's citizens. There's something else you can see. You can see that after these presidential elections, because I expect you to win, you'll regret it angryly, and what you promised the pensioners, the rest of the pensioners know, you haven't cheated on them for the first time, you promised them in the last election, and you always go ahead of the elections -- we'll give the pensioners three thousand, we'll give the pensioners five thousand, but you don't give the pensioners anything -- these are pensioners who took off their 40-year work, that's what they've earned. What you're insinuating and what you're selling and what you're black under your fingernails someone's been making through the sweat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote for this draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13990	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for Mr. Albianic, to return 24 hours before and yesterday's session. I volunteered under Article 226, to explain to me, as an expert in the field of mathematics, something that I would ask him, and on the other hand to confirm that yesterday I was right under Article 31, when I said that for no reason interrupts me in my announcement, yesterday at this time, that a certain unfortunate Antonio Obershal would pass through as barefoot. It is the first witness that the anti-Serbian Hague tribunal has brought to The Hague to testify against our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and since I know that Mr Albianic is an expert in the field of mathematics, he himself last night on one case of expertise from our president in his field, when it comes to the definition of an imaginary number, confirmed that he is an uncut leader of the Serbian people, that a man who, by his own knowledge, with his own skills, and above all by the power of his arguments, as well as knowledge from the fields of mathematics, physics, political sciences, legal sciences, history, will defeat The Hague tribunal. To finish, as I did yesterday when you interrupted me, Mr. Albianic, for no reason, because you saw that the definition is absolutely true, which is the true, or false physicist Antonio Obershal does not know, when it comes to an imaginary number, and especially when it comes to all historical facts and arguments which will be made by the president of our party to defend Serbia and the Serbian people. I want to tell you that this is enough evidence for you, that we are not joking with anything and you know very well that only in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of the world public, as Professor Vojislav Seselj did yesterday, we are going out with the power of the arguments. In the same way today, Mr Tomislav Nikolic will come out in front of Serbian voters with the power of arguments. We are confident in victory and long before prosecutors in The Hague tribunal expect it, the victory of our party's president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and his recent return to the country, and certainly the convincing victory of Mr Tomislav Nikolic in the January 20th elections. This synchronised performance of the two Seselj-Nikolic certainly cannot leave anyone indifferent. The president of our party's work there for Serbia's future, and Mr Nikolic's work here, is a guarantee that we will surely go as a people and as a state to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13992	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I can confirm that Mr. Seselj knew the math better than his interviewer, but lawyers with mathematics are less likely to stand otherwise. The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13993	Art. 27, 104 and 226. Yesterday, the president of the National Assembly, whom I do not see here, although I received information from the Vice-President of the Radet Obradovic National Assembly that he was scheduled to chair at 10.00 in the morning, probably has no intention of coming down, we will see in the course of the day how it would look, so yesterday he called elections for the President of the Republic, which was published in Official Messenger number 117. The Constitutional Law, Article 3, states: "The elections for the President of the Republic will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last of the laws governing the positions and elections for the President of the Republic, the defence and the Serbian Army, foreign affairs and security services." The accent is in effect on these laws. As for the law on the President of the Republic and the election of the President of the Republic, these laws came into force yesterday. In the case of those other laws which are explicitly referred to in Article 2(3), The constitutional law, when it comes to the law on defence, makes it very clear that it has been vacuuming legislation for eight days since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's in article 127. Defense law. We're moving on, the Army Act, it's probably missed someone, if we tell someone, it's missed everyone in this National Assembly, but it's missed each and every one of us. That doesn't justify power or opposition. The date of entry into force is 1 January 2008. The Law on Foreign Affairs, Article 67 of the Law, enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". A law on the foundations of the security service - eight days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, it is clear that the president of the National Assembly, who is not present here now, did not comply with the Constitutional Law when he called elections for the President of the Republic. The DSS issued its position yesterday when it comes to violating a coalition agreement that is undoubtedly, but that is, of course, the ruling coalition's parties. I'm sorry to bother the opposition parties with this, but we also said that our reaction to this would be certain after 19 December, when the debate on Kosovo and Metohija at the Security Council of the United Nations was scheduled. Of course, the debate at the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija was scheduled afterwards. It's sacred things for us. Before that, we will give no response to DS and we will work perfectly normal in this House. We will in no way endanger Parliament's work until that moment, nor will the government of the Republic of Serbia be in any way threatened. As for these remarks that I've made here, they're being dealt with very simply. The President of the Assembly should withdraw his decision and make it in accordance with Article 3. Constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13994	MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am confident that I share the opinion of all opposition MPs that you do not bother us at all when you talk about your relations in the ruling coalition and I suggest you talk about it a little bit more. Otherwise, this confirms all the indifference of the ruling coalition, because what you're doing with this country and with this people can be in the Ginis Book of Records. Those of you who work together in this government, as you behave, turn out to have some government or no government. Please give one answer to each other. If you can cooperate, cooperate, and if you cannot call parliamentary elections so that Serbia can win the government, in which those in the government will at least speak to each other, not resolve their issues through the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which you also chose in the way you chose within the ruling coalition. I have repeatedly pointed out here, the issue of elections, and when elections will be called, is not a question that you decide within the ruling coalition, it is a matter of respect for the constitutional law and agreement with political parties located in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You not only did you not talk within the ruling coalition, but you did not consult with other political parties. Of course, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is important and of course it is very important that we know how Serbia will behave. But as you think the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, such as the state negotiating team, will take place here, sitting next to each other, Republika Srpska President Vojislav Kostunica, Minister Samardzic. What do you think they're gonna say about that session, and they don't? Otherwise, he'll only cooperate for that session, and he won't cooperate. I think it should stop with this farce. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority in Serbia no longer exist. Tell it to the citizens of Serbia. Call parliamentary elections when you have already called the president, call the provinces and locals, at least if it goes into change, it should change from the beginning to the very top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13996	The People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people is Milet Pocuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this debate on the budget, which is the most important legal act a parliament can bring, runs in shadow of two far more interesting political events. The first event is a couple of excellencies, and this is the brilliant defence of Mr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, where those who followed the trial could see that Seselj led to the indictment of The Hague tribunal. On the other hand, it was seen that the so-called prosecutor of the prosecution was brought to his right, and his true measure is a white-world charlatan. You've seen that sometimes it's tragic to observe the person who pleads to himself that he's a scientific worker. Let's go back to our budget and, of course, it's clear that I'm going to talk about the health part of this aspect. I am very sorry that Mr. Cvetkovic, most likely, will not be able to answer my questions, since I am sure that he did not even create this section of health care. If we were to go about our people's health, we would have to say that first. Perhaps a previous same note must be given, unfortunately, this government, and Mr. Cvetkovic follows the government's intensity, does not realise that investment in health care is a real investment, but considers investment in health spending. The developed countries of the world today have realized that investment in health is not consumption but investment, as you like to say, in sustainable development. Furthermore, our people highly appreciate health and feel that this is one of the top values that we should have in this life. What about that health thing today? Unfortunately, the biological existence of the Serb people has been compromised. How is she threatened? White plague, and what is far more important, by dying of chronic non-infectious diseases, which are preventable. The two epidemics are harassing Serbia, an epidemic of cardiovascular diseases and malignancies, as one of the predecessors for this speaker has already pointed out. Of course, there are also 19 of the world's most developed countries, which have dropped 20,000 tons of explosives with thousands of planes, and the poored uranium, the cluster bombs, on the population and on the ground of our country. Surely the result of this condition is caused by it. What is devastating, today in Serbia more dies than before 2000 and the people are sicker than before 2000. What we must say, who has been responsible for since 2000, is precisely the policy led by the DOS government, which is personified in the image and work of Mr Milosavljevic, who is still the current health minister. Let's leave the corruption of the system, which is generated by the laws, and let's just move on to what you've suggested here. First, I need to intervene, and I need to intervene as hard as possible, because of what you wrote to us in the Memorandum that follows this budget that you proposed. On page 532, I don't know how you came to this, but you were free to write this and quote, please don't let this get in at the time: "The financing of the health function from public sources in the period from 2002 to 2006 was on average 6% of GDP, and in 2007, it increased to 6.4 GDP, which is high compared to international standards. To create a fiscally sustainable system of health care and a slight reduction in the share of expenditure for these purposes in the gross social product from 6.4 in 2007 to 5.9 in 2010. Please, how dare you write something like this, Mr. Cvetkovic, and stand behind it. It wasn't hard for me, and I'm gonna use a lot of time to see what it looks like in the world. I took data from the 2007 World Health Organization to see how much the world stands out from gross national income for health care. Now I'm going to read you a whole group of countries and then you tell me where you see what you said, that you need to reduce and get to a crime level of 5.9%. The World Health Organization says the minimum is 5%, and that is what the poorest stand out. Here is how: Albania stands out 6.7; Argentina 9.6; Australia 9.6; Austria 10.3; Belgium 9.7; Bosnia and Herzegovina 8.3; Brazil 8.8; Bulgaria 8, Canada 9.8; Greece 7.9; Germany 10.6; France 10.5; you want America to hear, 16% separates from gross national income. Where you found a foothold for such a criminal claim that we stand out a lot and that we must lower. Now, from this point on, I'm accusing you of deliberately and planically working on the back-up of what I have suggested to be the main problem, which is the biological threat of this nation. You, with these views, dictated by your international mentors sitting in your offices, are further jeopardizing the health and health of the Serbian population. That's your budget. That's your picture. What a man could now say about these items themselves, in principle I don't have much time, there's been a brief discussion about this item on the agenda, we're passing all the laws quickly, but I'm going to go through some items for the Ministry of Health. It's easy to see, in short, that the Ministry of Health has about 11 billion dinars from the health policy budget they're going to run. There is a regular activity, where we have an arrangement and supervision, represented by 741 million dinars, for preventive health care is set aside 2.4 billion, for improving treatment conditions 3.4 billion and for healthcare under Article 22. Four billion dinar insurance laws. If you look at this first item, editing and supervision, it means what is involved in regular work, if you look at the goals that are given and if you look at the description, you will see that it is extremely lay and unprofessionally written. Here's what's being said in the goals, I'm just going to quote: "The goal of this programme is to ensure the regulation, development and supervision of health policy implementation." Now, we can't put regulation, development and health policy in the department's jurisdiction. It's basic ignorance, it's the jurisdiction of the legislative authority, completely mixed pots. Again, it's interesting, he says, that the objectives here are the mandatory health insurance system, and then when you see the instruments he's calling for, there's no health insurance law listed anywhere. Look what's written there. Those 700 and some million dinars, which will be singled out, will use 106 employees to obtain three bills and two strategies as the final results. It wouldn't be too bad, but what's wrong is behind it. In the same item you suddenly see services by contract and then you see that professional services require an additional 45 million dinars. Please, 106 employees for this area, which has 700 and a few million, and as a result will make three legislative proposals and two strategies, has to pay more experts. Aren't these 106 professional? So it's in all the items and it's your face, it's a disaster. You spend and waste the money of the people that you've collected with dragon taxes on something that's not right and that doesn't contribute to the better health of our population. I won't go through all the items, I don't have much time, but I have to go through two. Improving the health of the population for diseases of particular social and medical importance. Unresponsible means of making available. Why? You here have a series of projects that are listed, which will spend quite a lot of money, and they are all monoprojects, all about one disease. Projects to prevent mono-disease have been abandoned in the 1980s. Today, integrated projects are being done and we before the sanctions were involved in the CINDI programme until 1993, and then, due to sanctions, we were excluded from the programme. Why aren't we back in the CINDI program after 2000? CINDI program is something we need to adopt and what we need to work on. What's also very funny, in the funding item, we have a programme to prevent tobacco-induced diseases. Not to say that it's basically defined and everything that's written here is spent 1.2 billion dinars, but what comes down here means the disease prevention program caused by tobacco consumption, here you have one project that says, improving health care by providing medical equipment for tobacco consumption. It says this: operating halls will be equipped with adequate equipment, monitoring apparatus, anesthesia apparatus and the purchase of magnetic resonance. Then it states that magnetic resonance will also be obtained for the children's university clinic. The item - preventing tobacco-induced diseases buys the magnetic resonance of the University Clinic in Belgrade. Are you out of your mind? Do kids smoke? It's treatment, it's not prevention. A series of such examples, unfortunately, I don't have time and this is scandalous what you're doing. You, Mr. Minister, I know you're not to blame for that, but they set it up for you. It's Mr. Vojislav Kostunica's fault that he lets a certain layman, there's a harder word to use, they live through such important documents. Another item I can't skip, which is very serious in the whole thing. Suddenly something appears called participation in financing the construction and equipment of health institutions, again 1.2 billion. Watch out for one item - capital donations to compulsory social insurance organisations, construction, investment of current health institutions. Please, Minister, you could see that, you're a financier. Under the law, no donation can be made to receive a fund, to give for investment investments, to expand and equip health institutions. The one who founded them is in charge. Do you know that, Mr. Cvetkovic? If you know, it's terrible that you let this happen, if you don't know, there are actions in this and your responsibilities. When a man gets a little persuasion, he realizes what it's all about. In secret, a new building of the Health Insurance Office is being built by the public. Today, when we do not have enough resources to treat our citizens, there is a new magnificent administration building at the salary of Dragisa Misovic Hospital. That fund is a matter of corruption and crime. This is the fund that had 60 employees in 2000 and functioned normally, and today there are 200 employees and the proposal has indicated that 300 more executives will be admitted in this year. That's terrible. Citizens don't have to be treated, citizens are deprived of their rights, and it's being scattered into a massive and inefficient, I can say freely, a corrupt institution. You're behind this, Mr. Minister, and it's not an honor. We know why 300 new ones. You make laws, this applies to MPs on the left, who are impossible to enforce. By 2006, when the Health Protection Act was adopted, the health book certification was to be carried out by the fund, it does not. The government has found a Solomonian solution, and by January 1st this year there are no conditions to verify the fund's health book, but rather to conduct organisations where people work. It passed January 1st, nothing happened yet. Here's how you guys work. What stands here is absolutely against the health of the people of Serbia. You and your foreign mentors, who have brought this people into such a difficult health situation, continue to destroy the biological integrity of this people, and therefore the SRS cannot vote, and we tell you openly to your face – may you be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13998	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u13999	To start around a story that was somewhere in June, over two million employees in Serbia must maintain, and in doing so helps them with this budget, some over a million employees, millions and 300,000 people, persons, pre-school children, high school, college students, who need to settle down from this means of education, treatment and 300,000 people who need some kind of social giving. So this budget, when taking that basic fact, with 46% of its volume, withdrew income from VAT, in which, of course, diapers, children's clothes, taxed everything taxed in a civilized country, and in a country of low birth should not be. If only a third of that income on the profits of businesses and profits made by citizens by savings, by their assets and capital, it is seen that this tax policy, fiscal policy, which is otherwise a single institution and way of creating budgets, is neither fair nor is it possible, is seemingly uniform and seemingly equal. But, of course, it can't be that way, because only rare items don't tax at a familiar rate of 18%, how much you tax things that in Serbia shouldn't be taxed, not entering into what you're told from the highest spiritual place and suggested that such things be abolished. It's not in this budget either, so the budget has remained deficited. I also believe that the Baron of Tilton couldn't, if he were to be a vampire, come and help, find the right measure of monetary and financial policy to preserve the stability of the budget. The fact that this budget represents 27% of gross national income is not a matter of neglect. The fact that 7% of that income actually goes to the administration spending, which is four times larger than when DOS coalition is in any variant of power, is not to be ignored. The fact that a quarter, 27%, goes to administration services is a very large item that affects this budget. We talked about taking measures from citizens, fiscal policy, not being the best solution. We hear that the governor of the NBS often says that his monetary procedures, his moves, cannot preserve monetary stability without concrete help from the government. Some discrepancies and agreement between you do not exist, so monetary stability obviously does not exist in the country, it was visible to the recent crisis of the euro, which is this time, not in order to bring down Tomislav Nikolic's position as it belongs to him, but from some very real and clear intentions of pulling foreign capital and conversion into the euro, in fact, was the reason for instability. What you're saying and not so convincingly helped to get out of the planned inflation framework and to get close to 9.5-10%. When, as the budget is constructed, we look at the items, we rarely find out that something was done so that his objections are gone. At least most often I place objections on those most difficult to trace, they are specialized services, contract services and other styles of elegantly washed pairs that cannot be traced. When it comes to the Ministry of Science, it remains on assets that are almost in the same hair, even slightly lower than they were. In that distribution of services by contract and specialised services are almost double the amount, but they were fair and counted on what would be paid out of it. I expect the board to consider some more of our vague things - why scholarships go out of social protection fees and why only a million dinars were given for scholarships, and high school students, and good students and those who won some prizes in the competitions. I've opened several times, I haven't seen three more zeros, so it's a billion, and seven billion are specialized services, and that's where institutes, projects, etc. are being held. Now that that's the case, let's see why health and health care institutes have such a high level of specialized services, not getting into what they're doing is important to the state and that what they do to other doctors, they work for equally bad or a little better pay. The fact is that 737 million were divided into several, at least, strange projects. I don't know how much you could have without the Minister of Health to answer these questions, but because of the public I'm going to run, even because of the part of the doctors involved in the clinical form of work, which is very important, especially since the law has been in place and has introduced the right to biological experiment in Serbian clinical centres, in clinic centres, in major hospitals there is a legal clause in the government to examine medicines for patients. Many consider it not only as proof of some professional competence to participate, but also as a possibility for some decent additions to poor wages. When you look at it, did the intention of preventing institutes from being prevented through special services allow them to do exactly what they do in the job description. The main objective is to ensure timely response to the prevention of mass epidemics, infectious diseases, including mandatory immunisation. Goal realisation: monitoring data analysis based on statistical, vital and routine data from health institutions. So someone's going to go to 116 million dinars, sitting in an office, not doing surgery, not giving anesthesia, not going to intervention radiology, not going to dialysis, etc. Sit down and process the statistics that came to him. They're receiving information to themselves. Is it a project when someone measured the pressure and wrote a prescription? It's defined work. Avoid these terms. We're very sensitive to it because there's a lot behind it. The development of the information system, watch what they do, project 53 million, same institutes and public health institutions, update data on the number of institutions, personnel; update. Any systematization of the medical facility they can get, which someone steals from them, the cleaning lady will see how many x-rays, how many staffs, how many nurses, how many ultrasound machines. What for 53 million? Is that a computer? How much computers are worth, and these facilities are 24, along with Batut. It's not just a computer. The same service, in the new project, gives an opinion on the needs of specialists and subspecies. Social medicine always gave it away, you haven't changed it since Tito. It is an opinion that Kragujevac needs to be given an expert in cardiology, to give that opinion, as much as specialization, hundreds, believe it or not, close to 13 million in Serbia. One piece of paper, believe it or not, is approved with insight into the condition of the personnel, etc.: 53 this, 13 this. Just let the citizens of Serbia hear what these projects are carrying. Where were those people who normally follow it on official duty? What does social medicine do about it? Where they were when the year and more specialization in Serbia, except before the elections, were almost suspended. Who took these 1,000? I bet 2/3 of G 17, 300 doctors, 700 nurses, that's all you talked about. The specials went to the spoon. There's more and more senior doctors. They have introduced 24-hour duty in emergency centres, which are not well defined in many places. People fall on their noses. After that, no one can go home at 8:00, as the legislator predicted, goes to one. They work one and a half hours, a lot of people don't get paid, a lot of them have a lot of them getting ready in smaller centers. No one ever paid them. For us, for them, projects. Someone who has to say that-- listen to the ministers, these can't work, so many doctors, with so few sisters, just to write it somewhere and notify 60 million for that opinion. Health promotion should be, but when you read what their plan is and the program goes to kindergartens in kindergartens and health homes and we talk, we probably valorize health -- wash your hands, don't go into premature sexual relations, don't get high, don't do this, don't do that. What denivalises the level of preschools of secondary and primary schools? At a school where my kids, in high school, never came from the level of the institute and the health care institute to talk about prevention but to oblige the student to prepare a lecture on it, so the student talks. Someone's gonna take 108 million dinars for that. Maybe he's writing a flyer, who knows when it's printed, maybe it's old. What about tuberculosis? A new flyer? You don't have to. For HIV? You don't have to. Imagine now - a national health account. You've lifted the SDK. That's what Batut needs to do. The national health account is six million, it's probably a little something for everyone else, but there's got to be a record of everything that goes into the health fund and what the users spend, some scale. What's the way in and out of the money to follow Batut? Since when is this a financial institution? Finally, the government remains calm, a strange project, a primary health policy in the Balkans, which gives the government the capacity to run a rational development policy. Invisible sentences, just to cover some money, $25 million, 27.5 million. Drive. Now some body at the institute is making a concept that the prime minister and ministers will perform, but it doesn't write the Balkans region, it doesn't write anything. It would look like a man watching this, if these institutions were financed from projects. They're not scientific institutes, they're health institutions, they have something to pay for. It's a nice way of elegant money laundering and division, a little bit to you, a little bit to me, to get the hairs to see it, no one will see it, while clinicians die there and work, often enter risky clinical biological opiates on patients, you're probably helping others to wash up and things work out. It's like giving money, like giving it to a postman who's been handing it off to the Fahrenheits, envelopes, letters and shipments, and then driving it around the city, and then paying it to him while he's putting it in the faucet and classifying it in size, weight and in the streets, plus paying it when he's wearing it. It's just one of the items of specialized institutions. When you look at a man's education there are huge items. With this budget, she got a lot more education than she had. Probably should and there's no dilemma. No one's against it, but why less than half the people, children get the right to school at the expense of the budget. Why don't you know a lot of colleges? It's getting into the master's level of study. How many are there going to be? The kids break their legs on the deans. No one to tell them-- excuse me, we're getting ready to raise the average, cancel the exam. Which will be a criterion for entering master studies after the third year. You won't find that kind of information. They just walk them from auntie to auntie, from prodecani to prodecena. There you have not helped them, this year even less than ever, and in this proportion Belgrade has gained more than any right to school from the budget. You forgot the time when you could be educated on the cost of the state. In that time he spits, which was the time that enabled many to finish colleges. What we want to question now. For what? That huge money, that's 3 billion, the system of institutions for student standards and two for high school, that's 5.5 billion dinars going to improve standards. Now it would be a catch if you said – see, radicals against. No, we're in, but someone's gonna follow this where the money goes. Great, let's see how many new homes can be, and how many seemingly reparated and how many built in, how many of those doing reparations will buy apartments in Belgrade. That's what we're interested in, to get that report here sometime, how this amount of money has been spent. Let them be twice as big and let them go to the students, but also to the standard, for scholarships and other reasons that can be considered justified in order to improve fate, not to tell them about the white Schengen, and that's the end of the story. They're not meant to be white Schengen, to go easier, and with what, how? It's not our goal to get them out of school, it's to get them out of school and stay here and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14000	The People's Messenger Vladimir Batić, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14001	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am advocating a violation of the provisions of Articles 27 and 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I think a session of the National Assembly should be interrupted, because it is absolutely pointless for us to talk about anything in light of the presidential elections that have been called. That looks like some kind of virtual story. I know that the ruling coalition has been operating like Alice in Wonderland for a long time, but this seems to be the end of that fairy tale and the end of that fake idyll. So, I suggest that at least a break be made, that the heads of Parliament's clubs meet, to see if you can get out of this impasse, at least after some shortened budget procedure, because how do you think you're discussing legal proposals if you have three presidential candidates in this room, if all these people are going to go on the campaign the day after tomorrow. If this is a central topic in Serbia today, who else will deal with the laws? Here we heard, on the one hand, that calling elections is a unilateral act, on the other hand, that it is part of an agreement, on the one hand, that it is in line with the coalition agreement, on the other hand, that a coalition agreement has been broken. We've heard that this is respect for the Constitution and constitutional law, we've heard that it's a violation of the Constitution and constitutional law. One part of the ruling coalition, two parties in a wedge, two parties in a record. The debate on Kosovo is announced after the Security Council session. Gentlemen patriots, you who promise that Kosovo will forever be ours, 'Last Marco in Kosovo'. What debate after the Security Council session? So, sit down, if you can agree, but since the EU's position is certain, then it's only a completely normal solution, because we don't know if there will be presidential elections or whether it will be cancelled, whether Mr. Dulic will be Parliament's president or will be removed, whether the government will fall or be reconstructed, means 1,000 strangers. We'll, like, calmly discuss the laws! So, on behalf of the DHSS, on behalf of the LDP MPs' club, we believe that the only normal solution is to call elections at all levels, because if Kosovo goes, and everyone says it will leave, then there is a new state-level situation, a new constitutional and legal situation, and then elections at all levels. Well, then, gentlemen, again, the areas together in the Cossack Coke, and the Minhauzenes and the Rose thorns, and the Hellens and the Collars, and the drones and the Workers, but you won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14002	Mr Batic, as for your request for a session and a reflection of the meeting of the heads of parliament, I will inform you that this morning, a meeting of the heads of parliament had been held before the beginning of the session, and it was attended by LDP deputy president Mr Milic, who, along with others, agreed that the session had a normal course. People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14003	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would first like to say that I have come forward about article 27. Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to correct you, Mr. Albianic. I would pray if you were already saying that he was the deputy head of the LDP parliamentary group at a meeting of the heads of parliament, which you do not say whose representatives were not at that meeting. I think it's correct to say who wasn't at that meeting, so the public would be fully aware of what's going on in this assembly. I called about article 27. Rules of Procedure, if closely bound, or inspired by Article 104(2). The Constitution - what are the obligations of the President of the Assembly. As far as I know, the President of the Parliament, while he was on a long journey, never came to this room. But I know he's out of the way, I know he's in this building, but he's not here today either. The president of the assembly is scheduled to chair the sessions. The president of the assembly should give us answers to some questions, not to hide and not to be in this room, to push you or Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Esad, etc. So the MPs expect the president of the assembly to sit down and do his job. Mr. Minister, we are truly sorry, but you have seen that LDP MPs have really prepared themselves when it comes to the budget law, which we consider to be the most significant law that the Assembly can pass. We really wanted to participate constructively in this debate. We have a lot of objections, but we expected to get some answers from you, too, etc. However, all this is now losing its meaning. Mr. Dulic didn't give me his word the other day while Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic was there, to ask him some questions and he made a firm promise, and the vice president of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly witnessed that the Deputy Prime Minister will be here for the next days as the budget is debated. Of course, there's no vice president of the government either. He has time to go to the television show, but he doesn't have time to come to the congregation hall and answer some questions. If this budget is developmental for him, then how are there 36 people in his cabinet, what are they doing? Not to say the other things and other promises he made, and to mention Kosovo more than Prime Minister Kostunica. That's not why he was elected vice president. Mr. Albianic, I expect you to pledge your authority and invite the President of the Assembly to come to this hall to talk, to keep his promise and bring in Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. If we're discussing the most important law, then it's logical to be also the people representing these institutions at the highest level. I ask you to do something about it, or I demand of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14004	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Just to let you know that I am not "poturen", but the elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that I am chairing the National Assembly in accordance with the authority of the National Assembly President. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the people of Kosovo and Metohija and displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, I think it's clear now. By calling elections, Kosovo and Metohija and the fate of that people has been pushed into another plan. By who knows which way for this democratic time in the democratic coalition, Kosovo is used exclusively for political purposes. This budget and these elections are on the orders of the international community. We, as a delegation of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, have a conversation with the president of the state at 15.00 hours and that is for pre-election purposes, to ask the president, what it means to call elections and what it means to "get a democratic president". By order of Javier Solana and other mentors, you Serbs should choose the "democratic president", and then you will be given the award as an independent Kosovo. Is that the script? I think the people will ignore it and that this time the people will see it and vote for the SP candidate Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic. Sir, come out here and tell the people. For you, Kosovo and Metohija are ballast, in territorial, physical, you would prefer to give it up. Here's the evidence. Mr. Minister, yesterday I asked a question, not some MP, but MP Zvonimir Stevic from Kosovo and Metohija. Here is your answer, the next question was about the water supply of Kosovo Mitrovica and some other cities, which are very problematic and has come to Serbia's government to solve themselves as a problem. The government has reached some conclusion. Not much of a conclusion, gentlemen. What are you doing? Here it is, the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in Belgrade on 30 August 2007, is signed by the vice president, Mr Bozidar Djelic. He says, "1. Information is being adopted on the implementation of a project to build a water supply system for Kosovo Mitrovica - north, Zvečana and Zubi Potok, and the need to provide a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia that is an integral part of this conclusion. 2. It is up to the finance minister to propose for the next cabinet session an appropriate guarantee act within a certain budgetary limit. 3. This conclusion is to deliver to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the Ministry of Infrastructure." The minister says -- it's actually the government's conclusion to the finance ministry, that according to the law, it solves the problem. We couldn't find a legitimate and quick solution for the simple reason that the whole thing consists of local communities with one foreign company signing a contract on the implementation of the project, and then the company won't enter into the contract, but rather requires the government to guarantee that the contract will be executed or charged unless the contract is executed. (President: Thank you. ) The answer to this is that the state has no intention of investing in the opening and construction of factories. So, gentlemen, in Kosovo and Metohija, life should stop to define the status, and then we'll see what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14006	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this 2008 budget is the same as the previous DOS budget. Why is it the same? Everything you promise is already seen. The state is in charge of who knows what banks and who knows what conditions. The important thing is that you're in power, and who's going to get it back, so what do you care about? How much does Serbia owe today? Analyzing the items of the budget, you can see exactly who's going in which direction. Each minister has a desire to make more of that cake for his ministry, and this is evident in this budget. The finance minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, in his own way presented this budget in hopes that he has a perspective. What perspective when inflation is higher by 50 per cent than projected, employment in this budget is not seen, just being mentioned as in the fog, and we know what employment is in Serbia, we know what social problems are in Serbia and everything that is related to work. Investments have an item of 2 to 2.5 billion euros. Who are these investors, when we know that those who enter Serbia and want to invest cannot be charged by a hack, a racket to your people who are in those places to allow them and give them all the papers so that they can close that investment plan. Everybody wants to fit in. Well, that can't hold any investors. They're already ordering only that radicals come to power, there's no such thing. How is this budget planned with a 14 billion deficit and the previous one with a 40 billion surplus? These are strange oscillations in the strange affairs of the budget. It doesn't really depend on the ministers. What message sends the budget to the citizens? That pensions, salaries, will be bigger, but how long? Someone said this was an election budget. Vote for us and don't worry. But in life it's not like that. Since I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, we have discussed this part of the budget called the division of the 14th - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management 26. 11. In 2007. And after the debate on the Committee, the ruling majority left the Committee, so the Committee had no quorum to make any decision or conclusion. I realized that by that date, the conglomerates of the authorities were not in agreement with the proposed budget, with this section of 14, and this was seen later since there were three variants of the proposal. Only when it came out, then the last version of the 2008 budget was released, reduced by 80 million, and I mean division 14. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, in her professorial presentation, gave you a full picture of this budget, where she says among other things: "The budget is a picture and an opportunity to strain the ruling coalition, it is a picture of the conflicting interests of the ruling coalition. "This is an unserious budget, no final accounts, no audit committee. Mrs. Jorgenka has also made it clear to you about consolidated accounts, how they function and for what purpose they serve you. It's all a hoax. What about the agencies? We have always shown you that they are the dung authorities, and when they are taken away from power, they are difficult to the people. Credits are taken by a method of failure. As far as section 14 of this budget is concerned, I will refer only to the principles set out in this section. You used to say that agriculture belonged to 10 percent of the projected budget. This means that 65 billion dinars should be planned for our agriculture. What's going on? With this budget, you planned 27 billion. It's a percentage less than in the last few years. We heard the minister asked for 36 billion in hopes of getting 32 billion, but there's nothing. There's one or five billion dinars missing. The message is that with this kind of agricultural policy, it should be destroyed and put on a beggar stick, so that various white-world lobbyists can place and trade agricultural products on our market. What's going on in agriculture? Less wheat was sown this fall for 50 percent of the planned area, and it is planned to sow 650 thousand hectares. It's sown about 300 grand. This set tells Serbian citizens -- keep bread and bread grain, we have so much that you have to take care of every piece of bread. And we used to be exporters of wheat and quality wheat. The subsidies in agriculture are planned with a figure of 15.3 billion dinars. And that's a little bit if we know the structure of the agriculture organization. For the three billion mechanism, these are reportedly increases compared to previous years. And we know what our machinery is like in Serbia. These are all designed machines and this mechanism must be restored urgently if we want to line up with the advanced countries of Europe. As far as these subsidies are concerned, they're small. We know what the drought did to us and what the floods did to us, so this area should be treated in quality with projected financial resources. I will give you just one example that is simple, and these are the bay systems in Serbia that are at the lowest level in this area. We currently have three percent surface area under the gulf systems, and it would be good if that percentage were 10. Then we could avoid all the troubles of dry years, and the damage from droughts and floods, this year was over 40 billion dinars. We know that global warming is on the horizon and that droughts will be frequented year by year and that bay systems need to be given more attention. There are channels and complete infrastructure in Serbia, there are rivers, lakes, everything is already there, only with little effort can the area rise to an envious level. In this area, the ministry planned $50m for three years, and this is under question if someone does not rebalance the budget and channeled the funds towards ski paths. We talk about rural development everywhere, and this year we cut that figure by 300 to 400 million dinars in our budget. It's a disaster. Who will remain in our country in the future? Which generations to stay in the country when we know what kind of situation the village is in today: in bad shape on all matters. The budget plans a timid 100 euros per hectare. That's a little bit. They know my friends who gun and sow our land. We want to bring livestock to the baby buffet. And how come when we don't invest in that product? Those 8,800 tons, that's already a known figure, and we need to get past it, and raise cattle to a higher level. As for pig farming, it experiences such oscillating movements every year that on today we have come to a state that the price of living cattle is low, and the price of corn is high and there is a sudden deterioration of this production. The peasants are now thinking more about other breeds, and the pigs are slowly shrinking in their stables. This policy must also change and that farmers of pigs know at least the orientation of the price and how much they can produce during that tour. We produce about two million passengers, and with a little effort from the state, we can produce eight million passengers. Fruit and vineyarding this budget is short for 220 million dinars, and we know that plums and vineyards were our brand. This year, the Russians bought everything from the raw plum program. So the state needs to return the plum to World War II level. At that time, we had 40 million plum trees in Serbia and we were famous for it. You want to raise the vineyards, but you don't work well here. Just one note, in Italy, the winemakers should be struggling with the administration for the time being, and that's not the case with us. Why don't you use it as a state of that advantage? So all the vineyards should be planted urgently with young and new varieties of vines. So, out of the projected 65 billion, there's nothing. It's probably your strategy for next year. You won't be expecting it, because radicals will radically help the agriculture sector when they take over in the summer. You found credit as a better way, it's subsidies. We think credits should really be given to those who stay on that black or yellow country and they feel the benefits of credit, where interest should be symbolic, one to three percent, not 10 and 20 percent. There's something in this department I haven't mentioned yet, and it's forestry. For this area, more should have been set aside in the sense that these damages that occurred through the fires that were going on in 2007. 33,229 hectares of forest and forest land, owned by 11.778 hectares and in private 21,411 hectares, were burned. The damage is about 40m euros. In order to resuscitate those fires, the ministry must also take on additional financial resources in order to resolve it. And in order to increase Serbia's noise per capita, it is necessary to add, make a plan, or plan only exists to move in that direction. How much money is needed for that, I don't want to comment on this, you know. Just to remind you, we need to produce as much as possible and plant the seedling on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14008	The word is from the peoples of the Parliament of Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14009	Usually, the budget behind a large amount of numbers hides something or shows something. When someone who proposes a budget has an ideological setting, then it can be understood and some logic can be found between numbers. But since the DOS came to power from time to time it's changing and it's getting some other forms. To better understand what I'm going to say, to remind you that, usually when it comes to elections, it invents some kind of steam, some kind of high-spirited steam, some kind of science-based steam. So suddenly when calling on citizens to vote for them, the elections are the moment when the social contract between citizens and those who should be the government is concluded. I'll explain later that this theory was abandoned in 1805, but it's not a problem for Micunovic to philosophy in that way. There was another parole recently, only one life, only once lived. It is essentially Protestant-materialistic, selfish, incompatible with our space, but it has also produced some results. Now I'm going to show you that both of these passwords are in these numbers right here. They're very expressive. So if this budget is a social contract offered by the DS, then nine million citizens of the Republic of Serbia should conclude by adopting this bill with the government that comes on behalf, I will now very precisely say, somewhere around 300,000 employees in the state administration, if another 105,000 employees in health care are added, so Serbian citizens, so nine million, conclude a contract with about 310,000 to 320,000 citizens, who are directly users of this budget. What kind of contract is that? That contract directed by the DS is, you being citizens have to pay taxes, taxes, fees, so that those in the administration get paid. What's their salary? Dragan Todorovic talks here for a few days about what these salaries are like. Can Serbian citizens pay for that? They calculated that they could get to some amount, but they need more, almost 15 billion. You see how expensive they are in that social contract. If they had offered it during the election and said they were going to do this, I'm sure people wouldn't vote for them, but they say, after you voted, you gave us the right to run the country. You must know, dear citizens, what's in there. So, 32,000 is a soldier, it's going to be fired. By the way, Mr. Cvetkovic, this one that is supposed to be the Secretary of Defense, he used to work at the Ministry, so he was an overwork force, so he took 40 salaries to free up a place to never get a job in the state service again. Now he's back in the state service. You're causing damage directly by being in a working relationship with the Ministry of Defense. He took the severance so he wouldn't be in the state service anymore, and you brought him back again. What do you do with workers who lose their jobs? They're not coming back. You said, the red-and-black coalition has over 100,000 police officers, so when you came to power, you said 20 and some thousands, but that's small. Now you've raised all that to 43,000, probably a little. When you arrived, you had an army of 60 or 70, and now you've brought it down to 32,000. Why am I saying all this? For this government, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is a cost, and they believe in their business that costs should be reduced. How do you cut costs? Since they came to power, every year 30,000 people die more than they are born. Don't be surprised, if they're still in power, that in a few years' time, pensions are lifted, no more pensions. Why? And the pension is the cost. How do they look at expenses? They can't get as much money as they need, so let's sell everything and sell everything with the moss. Why -- to fill up, coma, these 305,000 employees. Two million people work and provide their work with wages and existence, and status, please status, more importantly, for the people of this profession, who are in power, and they have all the leverage to force those 1.7 million people to pay everything to take these. It's that social contract DS-- drop the system, drop where you get it. What do we have as a result? We have mob-green banks, yes, mob-green banks, and that's the policy. Let's talk a little bit. For several years now, a system has been promoted to match the NBS for dinar stability and stability. The National Bank of Serbia keeps telling us that inflation should be lower in this country, and the government is constantly informing us that inflation should be greater. The NBS guy says inflation needs to be smaller, so we're interested in foreign investors and those who invest funds in Serbia so they can get profit-bankers out of here. But these don't fit. They need inflation. We have this conflict between the People's Bank and the Government and that conflict won't be resolved. What is the responsibility of one responsible for price stability? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Right? Do these potentiate the question of responsibility - no. They don't care about that. Because the government is so divided, sanctioned to stages - one, the other, the third. Is there any vision of what this government is planning? We had a chance here to listen to Mladjan Dinkic, chase Irish setters around Ireland and bring out their Irish miracle. The Irish miracle lasts for 30 years, for 15 years it was unsuccessful, it became successful, as the Irish say, when they solved three things. The first thing they solved was education. The other thing they solved was social consensus, social agreement. Do we have a social agreement in our country between all stakeholders - we don't. We have it from time to time, when the government organizes a strike, a strike to raise wages, to raise something, so that they allegedly calm something down and finish what they're planning. The third thing is investment. Where are our investments? What are these investments that come into Serbia looking at? Who got hired by these investments? We just know, according to the news, that Mladjan Dinkic has so much and so much approved this company and that company, who said they would do something on some ledge and something, and that something would hire so many new workers. So we need investors from abroad who could use budget funds. It's all cataractly set up. There's no vision here, there's no clear program. There's this concept of a social contract -- one is life, one is the life of this government, one is the social contract by the drop system, so let's finance this whole thing. Where's the stability? Did you ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we should only have 30,000 soldiers? Did you ask Serbian citizens how long it took us to have employees in the National Office? How long should we have employees in the ministry who have six state secretaries at Mladjan Dinkic's? You haven't asked the citizens, you've cut off, you're the government. How many thousands of new ones have you hired from 2001 to today and what new ones - your new ideological followers, whom you promised, your first fighters. That's why you invented agencies, that's why you invented jobs. You invent passenger cars, you invent everything, and what's an attribute of the state you're destroying and you've destroyed it all. Now you're trying and you're saying that the state can't have any economic functions, it can't be asked about anything. What if when you sell it, hold the water until the masters leave. What's gonna stay after you? Who's gonna raise the ground later? What's to raise the ground with? What are your results? What are your goals - macroeconomic stability, economic development, a set of fine stories. We have submitted a large number of amendments, so we will make a concrete point of view and concrete criticism regarding each item. Let me get back to the beginning. When something suggests DS, you know it's a liquid from 1848. That was the law on working relationships, that's the social contract's parole. So give yourself a little modern, look at some modern understanding of some - objective and subjective rights of individuals, the place and the role of individuals in one society. Adjust something at least to what Serbian citizens will benefit from, rather than how much you agreed, how many screws there will be, how much this ministry will have, how much this party will have, how many parties it will have. It's so obvious. In all your arguments, this is still a budget that concerns only choices and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14010	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. The word has been given by the MP Slavisa Topalovic. Let the MP Nikola Savic be prepared. There's no glory. National Messenger Nikola Savic, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic be prepared. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today when we adopt the 2008 draft budget in this House, education, judiciary, military reservers strike in Serbia. Strikes in education, state administration, and many other branches are announced. It is the best evidence that this budget is not designed for Serbian citizens, but for some other needs. Of course, if you look a little deeper into this budget, then you can see who this budget was designed for. This budget was designed according to the needs of NGOs and according to the needs of Natasa Kandic herself. Of course, I'm not saying this by heart, so I'm going to prove this all when I explain the budget items in more detail. It seems to me that Natasa Kandic too had a dominant impact on this budget. We don't appreciate the fact that soon we won't be looking at Carla del Ponte, when we have another woman, a domestic Carla del Ponte, who's no different from the real one. As I said in the introduction, my exposure will be the most applied to the item -- grants to NGOs -- economic classification 481. Of course, I don't want to say that we don't need NGOs and apriors I'm not against them, because there are those NGOs that are needed, but we certainly don't need those NGOs that are controlled by Natasa Kandic and similar. Here, I'll only get through the ministries as far as it goes for the NGO in which the ministry. Here, for example, in the Department of Human and Minority Rights, for NGOs 188 million, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 17 million, in the Ministry of Defence 4.2 million, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy 85, and 17 and 48, and 48, and 480, Ministry of Environment 12 million, Ministry of Culture 180 etc. So, not to put it all together, one huge sum of money is set aside for NGOs. Most importantly, this isn't the budget that NGOs are talking about. Only a few taxing NGOs, such as the Ministry of Defence, are listed for the Union of Reserve Military Elders, then for the work of political parties, to finance the reconstruction of Hilandar etc. As for transfers to other levels of government, for the Presevo Co-ordination Body, Bujanovac, the Bear stands out 310 million. I don't understand how the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja is the Authority, and I think that these funds are too large, especially if it is known that the Pcinian District, to which Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja belong, has a budget of nine million, and only for this coordination body is allocated 310 million. Is it possible that some new Nebojsa Covic put his paw on this money and how it will dispose of it? In the culture ministry, the 110m item stands out for the reconstruction of Hilandar, but it is directed again through NGOs. Why is this money for the restoration of Hilandar directed through NGOs, when we know that there is a Ministry of Faith and there is a Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments? At the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, under the subsidisation of public non-financial enterprises and organisations, 31,800,000 dinars are defined by the cluster development programme. That's what the budget says. Listen now, please. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, who gave you this term "claster"? Do you even know what a cluster is? In a literal translation, the word "claster" means a cluster bomb, and in a broader sense it can be translated as something terrible, which is somehow compatible again with the name of a cluster bomb. Indeed, again that old practice of yours that when you want something to hide is called a term that no one understands, it may sound nice, but here it doesn't sound nice, it may sound nice for those who don't understand, but since I come from Nis, you must know that this is how you hurt all Nis citizens, who in several locations during NATO aggression suffered from these clusters, or cluster bombs. Among them were a 25-year-old young woman, a fifth-year medical student in the seventh month of pregnancy, who suffered from these clusters within five metres of the Niski University building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14012	I thank the People's MP, Nikola Savic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and let the MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a second copy of the same budget ahead of us. I wouldn't know why that original budget was withdrawn from the agenda, and I can say that such a proposal as it is is nothing special and I didn't expect anything new from the Democratic Party when it comes to the budget. All items foreseen here in the budget mostly want to hide the fact that a country's enormous debt is planned in 2008. The state's debt is through a guarantee that the Republic of Serbia will issue to various public enterprises, institutions, funds, loans the state itself will take and issue through the most likely National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. I could understand the proposal's wish if those assets were actually investment funds. However, the entire budget, even this over-indebted budget, exclusively goes to public spending, to support the state apparatus. We have had the opportunity to hear Mr. Todorovic, who has read what the salaries are in certain state bodies, and it is not enough for you that one part of your party friends and officials have extremely high incomes, but you continue with the opening of agencies. Here, even in the division of the Ministry of Equal Regional Development, the new agency, the initial funds for the establishment of the agency, etc. is already mentioned. Usually the managers of these agencies are you or party colleagues, or friends, or relatives, and the salaries they receive in such para-state bodies, because I can't call the agency otherwise, are the amounts someone receives in two or three years as they receive in one month, and I say not lower profits in the Republic of Serbia but average. So, one multiplication of the state apparatus is constantly there, and all under the pretext that it's something modern, that it's the European Union's position, that we actually agree on our state leadership, or state apparatus with the apparatus of the countries of the European Union. Perhaps in something you're trying to imitate them, but in this very unsuccessfully, I can say that, because if there are a large number of agencies in a country, then the number of state administrations in the ministries is extremely small, i.e. the minister who only co-ordinates one small team and technical services, and the work of the agencies for which he is responsible, or who corresponds to him for his work. That's not the case here. So, the number of workers in the ministry is constantly increasing, the state administration is constantly increasing, the number of agencies is constantly increasing, the number of agency employees is also probably due to the continued pressure of the SRS in order not to set up more agencies, you have passed the Law establishing agencies. That's where you show what kind of state policy you're running. You've provided funds even through a loan to support a huge state-owned apparatus that doesn't serve anything, I can tell you, most of the state-owned apparatus does nothing. On the other hand, the government shows little concern for the economy and agriculture, and we can say that agriculture is our strategic branch and that we can't even have an industry without agriculture. Which way does your farm care go? So here, in the following: the state will take loans, give loans, and the same, farmers, instead of doing it from real sources. But how? I would understand that there are certain subsidies in agriculture, in the sense that for a finished agricultural product there is a specific subsidy. But there's no such thing here, subsidizing the real one doesn't mean that the subsidy gets what it's worth, how much it's made, how much it's made. It's not going to pay, but it wants to raise loans, of course, on the pretext that it works for agriculture, it places it on alleged farmers, and most often it's people who are very close to the parties who have these assets. Just to give an example of abuse, Mr. Minister, and that of your party colleague, then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, has raised an incentive credit for the development of agriculture, and opened a nightclub. That's the whole truth, she even admitted, even Zoran Zivkovic asked her to resign because of it. That's how you DS have people's money. While he was the minister of agriculture from G17 plus, they even established a network of agricultural producers who had to be members of G17 and from there placed funds for loans. Only members of the G17 could get a loan from the agricultural funds. Again, there was no control and most of these loans were misused. There are even letters, it is not disputed to prove that it is so that then-minister Dulicka sends municipal committees Circular letters how they should act, how to find citizens who will receive loans from her ministry. When it comes to industry, when it comes to stimulating exports, it does not exist, there are alleged funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to provide export arrangements. But people, leave the economy, that they manage themselves, best they know how to care, but reward them when they place something out of the country, provided it's not raw material or semi-product and that the majority owner of the capital is a citizen of the Republic. So he's the founder of this territory, not who knows where he came from. However, there is no such thing, even though such funds will again be determined by Dinkic, since it is now the money that goes from the budget to him, these funds will be defined. That it is true that this budget is both wasteful, and that it will employ even more citizens of Serbia, is in favour of how you showed the revenue side, or the cost side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So they only tried to show it with those amounts and budget incomes that are obvious that they are budgetary and cannot be shown differently, because the layman also knows that this must be budget revenue. However, budget revenues are also privatisation revenues, which is not here. And the loans you were planning to raise, you showed it in a very cunning way by also raising your credit, and putting the return of old loans through one position, in one table of the Republic of Serbia's budget. But that would be too big and too big, so you put in a completely different place one to pay off the principals, and another to the interest. It is, therefore, an obvious desire for the government of the Republic of Serbia, or DS, to hide how much it plans to assign the state during 2008. How serious it is to point out from only one example that nearly two billion dinars are planned for the accompanying costs of borrowing. Have him take some digitron and figure out how many loans can be raised with two billion dinars, if the cost of borrowing is on average one to three percent. That's the amount I don't believe we'll be able to pay soon, if you continue at this rate. Mr. Minister, you owe the citizens of Serbia another explanation, which is to go out for this pay phone and say that the paper show is of the same value as printing money, that the state in this way printing money, often offends the dinar, that the National Bank of Serbia is also broadcasting securities of value and playing with the course of the dinar. Whoever has a little sense of business, we have some free money, only new exchange rates could fertilize money twice or three times on speculation about the course itself, and nobody can convince me that Governor Jelasic is behind it, Minister Dinkic is not standing, and I doubt, Mr. Minister, I doubt that you have a role in that part too when it comes to securities of value. Go out and say that during 2006, the National Bank of Serbia broadcast securities worth 30 billion dinars, that it lost 30 billion dinars and that the loss had to be paid by Serbian citizens from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's about speculation. I can say one more thing, Mr. Minister, that in one part you've even been very rude to the MPs, I think it's Article 22, which is about some extra funds paid to political parties, you wrote as if the parties had stolen that money. I don't mind, if by mistake there have been higher or higher donations, that the money should be returned to the budget or to the citizens of Serbia, but don't blame the political parties. For the disagreement of the Law on the financing of political parties and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is the legislator of the law. And why more money has been paid to political parties, it is the minister's fault as the executioner of the budget and it is the trustee's fault, who cares about the compliance of the budget law with other laws. So don't accuse them with the text of a political party that they've spent, not rather than which, by mistake, the Ministry and the Treasury have been paid more. That would be a more acceptable term. Take responsibility for yourself when it comes to it. You still owe the Finance Committee and this assembly an explanation of what the budget is and why are we building a consolidated vault account? It will be discussed in the budget system, why if we try to reduce the budget all the time, whether its income, whether its expenditure side. Show once nice: the budget is as clear as it can be, that layman can read. Tax revenues are so much, tax revenues, so the judicial, so the administrative, so which court charges, the municipal, the county are so much, we're going to write the budget so much, we're going to broadcast records of value so much, not that there's always something hidden, and if we're going to find out something, we need to look very well for those smallest words that you can put in anyway tiny, let's say, material that's extremely large but physically small, to find items about how you think you're going to make a budget and how we're going to spend it. In any case, Mr. Minister, to finish this, the SRS has submitted over 70 amendments. I am pleased in part that this budget and the budget debate coincided with the upcoming presidential elections. I think the draft budget is extremely bad for DS President Boris Tadic. This will be a real treat for the SRS MPs to show how Boris Tadic and DS think in 2008 they spend folk money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14014	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic. Let the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14015	My fellow Members, first of all, I have to put out one personal opinion and persuasion and one disappointment which, when it comes to such a serious law, about the vote of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so few people participate in the debate in principle and so few people from the ruling coalition truly think about the real standard of our people and what is written about how all these funds that have been bought for a year will be spent. What I wanted to say was, in the middle of this most serious debate, yesterday at a secret meeting, the president of the assembly called the elections. That's more than devastating to the people, and what I heard in the hallway in the meantime, that's that he told his DS colleague -- you have to sit in the first bench and nod, because someone has to stay in the O.R. and nod. Dear citizens, the fact that they stayed in the hall in the first bench and nod to us absolutely means nothing to us, especially not to the SRS and especially not to the citizens of Serbia. One more thing I noticed yesterday, which is that an MP from the DS, who was very happy with the election call, specifically about Srdjan Milivojevic, came and then gave his hand first to Mr. Minister and then, in turn, from MPs to MPs, from bench to bench congratulated the election campaign. This was joined by MP Jovan Nesovic, MP G17 plus from the Kings. They were happy yesterday, I don't know what, I think it's too early and I think there's going to be a time when they're really going to be disappointed and very soon. I think the election call has a lot to do with the budget, and what I'm saying right now is not just a political speech, but I'll explain later that it has a lot to do with the agenda. What these two men were looking forward to yesterday and what they were looking forward to was precisely because they believe that their policy and their election results have a great foothold in this political project, which is all but an economic document, or not an economic project. Here is how these two parties are installed in this budget and how I will explain Mr Cvetkovic's words, the finance minister, when he says that his budget, or the ruling coalition's budget, or the finance ministry, is not electoral. It is electoral and I will explain it to you. I can't call this a book, I think this is just a set of statistics, Mr. Minister. The day before yesterday, when you gave some of your budget exposures, you had a great deal of trouble reading, your reading lasted about an hour, and you sweated when you read this, not this, but certain segments. Imagine how one ordinary Serbian citizen sweated, how all Serbian citizens sweated until they came to this figure you called the Republic of Serbia's budget here. This budget of the Republic of Serbia is not yours to earn. This budget of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, correct me if I'm wrong, in 93% of the income is citizen tax revenue. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with whom the SRS is identified, did not expect your expert government and you as experts not to fulfill what you promised the people in 2000 and thus committed a coup because you promised the people a better life. Then there were still our factories, Mr. Minister and gentlemen from the ruling coalition. Back then, Serbia still had capital, but the factories didn't work. You took advantage of the middle class, the middle layer of our people, which is gone now, by means of it, you made a coup on October 5th, because you promised, in fact, you literally said, not specifically you, but the people of the DS, specifically, I will not speak now who, because this man is no longer there, that there are huge funds waiting for us at the border to raise the flag in Kragujevac, which will raise up the Car Factory in the Kingdom, which will raise Magnochrom in the Kingdom, which will open up all closed companies and will return the river of people who have lost their jobs to their factories. You did what you did on October 5, 2000, through this political and social manipulation. Otherwise, if the people knew what was waiting for him and that the transition would take eight years and it's still not certain when it would end, you know when you'd do October 5th and if there was a change that occurred. You actually cheated on the people then. It's not a demagogue story or a political SRS. It's one true story, it's the facts of life. I'm almost in the ranks of MPs and I'm wearing the freshest impressions from the people, I come from the middle class and I know perfectly what hurts this people. What I wanted to tell you is why your budget is pre-election. Because you installed two people in the budget you couldn't avoid, one is called Mladjan Dinkic, and the other is called Dragan Djilas. The first to be called Mladjan Dinkic has jurisdiction over regional development, tourism, ski resorts, private entrepreneurship, privatisation and all that is vital and essential for the survival of this society. What he's doing with his minor party, which has barely passed the censorship, he's actually made you a government. The way he did it to you, that's how you broke it. Maybe it's a little rough for me, but it's the right expression for you. Your government doesn't exist. You had to call the election because you had to choose less between two evils. You couldn't take any more of the suspense offered by a certain political situation, and you had to break up somewhere. As you and what you will see, and you will see how far you will reach. You've done the worst, not only for the people, but you've done the worst for your party. A very illogical move on me. I'm sorry, but I'm not sorry because right now it's the turn of the SRS, and it's finally time for this people to get one real government and one real president, who will truly think of the people and who will truly bring this people out of this darkness, out of this silent suicide that you've brought into. One is, I said, Mladjan Dinkic. You gave him all the resources he could. Whether you had to or wanted to, you know it best, and the best people feel what it means. Secondly, what you've done, please, Mr. Cvetkovic, what else you've done, it's the National Investment Plan. You've put huge funds into the hands of a man named Dragan Gilas. What's he doing with those funds? Here's what he's doing. According to some requirements of local self-government, that is exactly what it does, it prepares for presidential and local elections, and then Mladjan Dinkic and Dragan Djilas work together. And then he will come to the King, these gentlemen, he will open his offices, as they open. Independent of the people, we don't know what these offices are doing. They simply ask all the people to politicize, whether they want it or not, to ask the citizens of their parties to be members of their parties so they can take credit, so they can introduce electricity, so they can make a few times, and I don't know what they're promising. It's small promises. I appeal to our people that such small promises no longer fall. Such small promises have led to a collapse from 2000 to 2008. Guys, we're dying slowly, there's nothing to treat. I told you about Mladjan Dinkic. I told you about Dragan Gilas. Let me ask you something else. Last year, or this current one, the oatmist gentlemen had about the same resources. Let's ask the citizens of the Kings - what they felt as a improvement, specifically in the King, by the Minister for Regional Development, the even regional development, which is 1:15, which is not normal in any country. What did this National Investment Plan for the King do? Do you know we have water full of phenols that we drink? Do you know that when Ibar pours out, the wells pour out? Do you know that Ibar is leaving Kosovo? Do you know that no one is informing us what will happen when Kosovo is declared independent? Do you know that someone can poison us overnight? Did you know that no one ever thought of that? Do you know how many refugees we have in the King? Where's your budget item for that sort of thing? For work and social policy, Ljajic, who says the day before yesterday at B92 - is, you are right, we are not able to do our job, we cannot arrest Mladic, we can't do it, we don't know it, we don't know it, we don't know it. One more thing. Where are your items for these missed privatisations? What are you going to do with the Magnochrom people? The Magnochrom people were talking to all the state institutions that people thought existed, and the state institutions didn't exist. I can't explain to people that state institutions don't exist and what exists isn't in coordination with each other. You've shared such a ministry that you have no idea what the ministry is doing. You as finance minister don't know where the government reserves stand. You say I don't know, I'll ask. As finance minister, you don't know that diapers are three times more expensive with us than in Germany. You as finance minister, probably don't have little babies, you may have grandchildren, but you're probably buying those 50-piece jumbo diapers. Someone buys one or two, just for the night. During the day, he washes, risks the child getting cold. You, our great experts, the experts who came to power in 2000 to get the economy back on its feet, you found that you were earning fiscal policy. You found that you're making money on baby prey. You're saying you can't give up that kind of income in the budget because you think a general rate has to be increased if you give up diapers. What are you guys doing? Don't you know better than to make money on babies? Don't you know better than to take from a mother who goes to a store in the morning, there's no other store than Maxie's discount, Temp and other wholesales, retail. One more thing to say, it's not Miskovic's fault, it's not any tycoon in this country, it's the government, it's you gentlemen. Since 2000, we have been expecting all citizens of Serbia, middle class. I think you've got a lot to say after this, especially your expert government that makes money on diapers and fiscal politics. You've filled the budget 93% of the citizens of fiscal policy. I don't think this budget of yours deserves any attention. Just because you come here and nod your head in the front row for two or three days doesn't mean anything. We'll see how many amendments of the SRS you'll adopt. I think you'll only adopt those formal natures, that it's heard that you've adopted something, and maybe we shouldn't write any more such amendments, where your point is, that we're grammatically correcting you, that we're giving you that opportunity to publicly tell you that you're cooperating, too. I'm very sorry to have a little time for all this, but what I can say is that last night, who was watching and looking at more than half of Serbia, that Mr. Mass Communications Expert Mr. Obershal testified last night for the benefit of the SRS, or for the benefit of the Serbian people. I can thank him on behalf of the Serbian people, how he has defended us beautifully with his ignorance and how he has allowed our greatest Serbian patriot – the greatest Serbian hero, one of the greatest, perhaps biggest, history will show – to show all knowledge, all the art, all the intelligence and all the morals that a man carries, because he says - I only have the starry sky above me and personal morality in me, only it binds me and nothing more. People, the SRS will surely win this time and take this people on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14016	I thank the MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Zoran Shami; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Sasa Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14017	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have the government of Serbia's 2008 budget ahead of us and I must say immediately that the DSS will support this budget. I'm obliged to make one personal point of view, which is that this is a well-designed budget. I'll explain how well it is. So we have a budget with revenue that is lower by 14.8 billion from expenditure, and the expenditure is 645 billion. Speaking of income, let me say immediately that the budget has been made very careful. The increase in tax revenue was overlooked by only 16%. When I say - only 16%, it should be kept in mind that inflation in 2007 is close to 10%. Therefore, the real increase in tax revenues is about 5.5 per cent. I'm even convinced that it could have been very easy to plan a slightly higher tax revenues than planned. But, well, it'll show up in the realisation of the budget. I believe that when we realize the 2008 budget, the deficit, in fact, won't be. On the other hand, non-tax revenues have been increased only by an inflation rate. They have not been increased at all, and I believe there will be some increase, given the general developments in society, in the economic sphere. There have been remarks here that the budget is wasteful, for the Lord pays a lot of money. Look, you can check for yourself, somewhere near 177 billion or about 28 percent is going to be left out for all wages. If you take into account that only 92 billion go to education, military 22, then all this rest, including health care and all that the state finances, so the salaries only account for 28 percent. Speaking of wages right away, they've been formally raised from 153 billion to 177 billion, so 24 billion, but it should be kept in mind that for years, not to say for decades some sectors in society have been severely impoverished: education, health care, the military. In the first half of 2007, we put out the fire in education, when their salaries were raised. Of course, when it's shown in mass, it's a proper increase that looks a lot, but it's not really much. By the way, this has nothing to do with this 2008 budget, but I am convinced that the Serbian Government, in this case Mr. Finance, in co-operation with its fellow competent ministers, must find in the future some other mechanisms of financing education and health in particular, because the current way, practically, comes down to the following: every teacher, every teacher, every doctor, every nurse, has, to say, a personal relationship with the Serbian government, a personal contract. Of course, when this is presented, there are very often some dead souls, on the one hand, being funded. On the other hand, both education and health have no impression that they themselves need to have some resources, but only address this and all future governments by making appropriate accounts. I think the model of funding and education and health care needs to be changed in the future, that, on the one hand, we get satisfaction from the performers of these services, so professors, doctors, nurses, etc., and that, on the other hand, the state does not cost enormously much and that it can also finance in these areas of some other stuff. Look at the budget for education - 106 billion, of which 92 billion for wages, and everything else is just 14 billion. Then we get into a position, I talked about when the previous budget was adopted, if, for example, the resources for talented students and students were negligiblely small, I should even say inadmissiblely small. So it is obvious that over the coming years we are stabilising budgets for consumers, such as education and health care. I told consumers, even though it's something this country has to invest in. Investment in education doesn't give, however, results immediately, but we have to invest in it, so that we don't keep the 'great' 41st place of 57 countries in a test that has recently been carried out. I'm sure there are educators who deserve twice as much pay as they have, but I'm afraid there are also those who don't deserve the pay they now have. Finally, there's something else to say. Our budget, unlike the budgets of some others, I say, has more fortunate countries, has some difficult factors that were still in place a few years ago, and I'm afraid it will apply over the next few years. I'll count them as soon as I can. First, in the early 1970s, we destroyed a pension fund. No one in their right mind can support pensions from current consumption, and that's what we have to do, because that's not the fund. Second of all, it was robbed of an old foreign currency savings. We have to get her back, we've taken over the natural obligation that citizens must be compensated for what the state took from them 10-15 years ago. Thirdly, the entire segments, I have already said, societies are terribly impoverished: education, health care, military etc. It's started to repair the position of these structures, but it takes time, of course, and money. Otherwise, every well-intentioned, here were the remarks that the state was very in charge, it's not true at all, we don't have time for some big analysis right now, but it's really not true. We don't belong to many of the countries in charge. That's what a superficial analysis says. So once again, the DSS will be happy to vote for the adoption of this budget, and I am personally confident that it will prove that budget revenues will be greater than planned and that, in fact, in 2008, we will end up with, let me say, a positive zero, as is the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14018	The People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have said a lot so far about the projection of this budget itself, but there is nothing more to be added, given that the SRS has very seriously analysed the projection of this year's budget. As you have heard, we have invested more than 70 amendments, which we will say a lot more about the individual positions of the budget. Overall, this budget is identical to the 2007 retail budget. The difference is that this budget is passed within the legal period, i.e. it is discussed and adoption is done as prescribed by the law. We know we made the last budget in June. I don't think any country in the world has made a budget for that calendar year since it's been over a year. As for this 2008 budget, it was projected at 639 billion, and budget expenditures are 654 billion, so a 14 billion dinar deficit is expected. When we talk about achieving a projection of macroeconomic indicators in 2008, you have here listed what all of this government will do next year to implement macroeconomic policy and projection of this budget: strengthening the private sector that will create new investments, exports and new jobs. As far as new investments are concerned, they are the least in this budget. This budget is anti-developmental, anti-reformal, this budget is just one projection of the political party's strength in this parliament. Since the division of the ministry was carried out last year when the government was formed, it is also seen according to the funds allocated in the budget, how much is the political power of which is so much money. Since it has long been announced that there will be elections, it is seen that this has been prepared, because it was first budgeted, so it has been withdrawn from the agenda, so there have been some changes, the election budget. As far as export performance is concerned, it is known that in Serbia from 2000 to today, the economy is in total collapse, that we only import, that we export very little of our goods. This is evident from the projection of the budget where very little is set aside for agriculture. Your promises to farmers of 100 euros, that it would increase agricultural production or increase agrarian, did not bear fruit, although you went from county to county and sent your district chiefs to tell them a nice fairy tale. However, our citizens are not naive enough to believe that story, because they know how much it costs to get a finished product on the market. As for other ministries, it is mentioned here that the macroeconomic policy for next year will be based on the creation of new jobs. I just don't know where you're going to open these jobs, since every day there's privatisation and one factory closes, all that's privatized is closed, the workers are fired, and now here you're saying that you're going to open new jobs. From 2000 to 2007, over a million citizens were out of work. With this national employment program, a very small number of people could have been employed by these existing companies, and these are still these public enterprises. However, they are also filled and there is no more space, the minors are sitting down to several colleagues in offices and have no room at all to work, let alone to open new jobs. It is another one in a series of election frauds by the DS and ruling parties that make up this coalition. Yesterday when a colleague spoke from G17, just within the budget and these projections planned for 2008, he seemed to be not living in Serbia or simply got a speech that he had to give here at the pay phone, to justify all this work that this government is doing and for all these results it achieves, or that it does not achieve. The results of this government are daily strikes, starting with health care, the judiciary and all other privatized companies, because every day when we come to the Assembly meeting, we can see our citizens who have lost their jobs, who come and strike and ask us to receive them and talk to us, and can we somehow help them get out of this situation that you've brought them to from 2000 to today. When we had the Finance Committee and Mr. Minister, together with his associates, tried to justify the draft of this 2008 budget, following a series of remarks made by the chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, as well as us MPs of the SRS, we had a meeting with the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. We waited two years for the state audit institution to form. When it was to be formed, we said it was important for the state, because the state audit institution is just controlling how money is spent by citizens of Serbia. At the meeting, however, the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic, pointed to a number of failures and to a number of problems they have as the State Auditing Institution. It was projected here that their budget was 296,000. But you denied them that, so you cut their budget. They have no room to work, nor where they can function normally and perform what this National Assembly has chosen them for. In addition to appeals to the top institutions of the state and the president of the Assembly, the government and Serbia, however, they have not received adequate working conditions, so that this year they will not be able to perform an audit, but will have to engage a certain agency that will do so instead of an audit institution. And we know that in Serbia, mahogany audits are done by agencies, where usually owners are members of the DS. That's what the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you. So, in the next period, we will have an audit institution that we will pay, and we will not have a report from them, but we will have certain agencies that will certainly win the tender, from the ranks of the ruling coalition, which has its own members who own these agencies. The full report is likely to be positive and that everything is done in accordance with the law. Yesterday, Mr. Todorovic also spoke about the budget and about the salaries of individual directors of public enterprises and proved why this is not a development budget, but a consumer budget, as the salaries of individual directors range even within 500, 600 and more thousands of dinars. The chairman of the board of directors or directors of the NIS have a million dinars a month and costs Serbian citizens. It shows that when this government was formed and the portfolio was divided, there was an enormous increase in these management salaries. Those fixed salaries are within some limits of the law. However, they receive a managerial supplement that no one controls and is nowhere shown in the business of certain companies. As for other public enterprises, and there are enormously large salaries, it is the same with power plants and spears, where over half a million dinars are moving. Then various agencies, for example, when the SRS, when the past budget was opposed to opening so many agencies next to existing ministries and not increasing so much state apparatus, you said it was a need so that it could function normally and that you could achieve certain results. One year after that, there are no results, but only an increase, more and more assistants and more directors of these agencies, so there is a division of the party quotas you have, so you just hire certain members of political parties. As a colleague said before, you condition certain quality people who, in order to prove themselves in their work, must be members of especially G17 and DS. The SRS will not vote in favour of this budget, because we believe that this budget has nothing developmental or reformal, but this is one election budget that you have prepared, to continue to promise citizens in the coming period, as they have promised all these seven, and it is already the eighth year, but very soon there will be a change at the head of the state itself, and we hope for all other institutions. Then you will see when the SRS and Mr Tomislav Nikolic as president of Serbia, in which direction Serbia will go, that they will have a brighter and better future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14020	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and let the MP Marko Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14021	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the MPs of the Single Serbia, who are at the DSS-NS, I will make certain remarks and suggestions on the proposed revenue and expenditure plan of the Government of Serbia for 2008, but immediately say that the Members of the Single Serbia will vote in favour of this budget, not for reasons they consider it ideal, but for one principle reason, because we supported this government, we will also support this budget. At the same time, we believe that Serbia must get the budget at this time, so that we do not go into a crisis of government at times when the country is in great danger of losing 15% of its territory where many of the world's hohstuplers and powerful men have provided their hands. In this draft budget law, what surprised us a little bit at first, when we look at the first side of this budget, is that the budget deficit for the 14 billion circus is immediately forecasted. However, the reasons show how the 14 billion deficits will be replaced. One way is the privatisation money that will take place in 2008. We believe that it might have been better not to enter the deficit budget plan and not to plan to focus on money from privatisation, possible privatisation, on covering the deficit, but on focusing where it is needed, on opening new jobs, and on providing opportunities to hire young and educated people. The facts show, and the practice so far, that mostly privatisations were immediately brought by a number of people who were out of work, regardless of how many social programs these workers received a certain amount of money. However, when they returned all the debts and obligations they had and had until then, they remained without money and without a job. I will mainly focus my exposure on two ministries, which is the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We see that the budget for 2008 for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry has increased slightly compared to earlier funds and that certain economic classifications generally provide for amounts for certain subsidies, allowances, aid to agricultural producers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the Government would have to know, I'm sorry that there is no agriculture, water and forestry minister, that this country is as poor as it is, must in the coming years base its survival and its development on agriculture, water and forestry, because we believe that there are huge reserves to be used here, and we just need to give financial injections to agriculture and agricultural producers and to all those who are either directly related to agriculture, water and forestry. In the pre-election campaign, we heard promises that each agricultural producer will be paid 100 euros each for each hectare of surface area, that 80 euros will be paid for each drowned June, etc. We hope that the government will honor this promise and that since January these agricultural producers will begin to receive these funding, that we do not wait for May and June, when the cycle of that spring seed is over and when those funds do not have the effect that they should have. I would particularly draw attention and ask the finance minister, since this is not his area, to pass on to Mr Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, to pay particular attention in 2008 to the allocation of much larger funds to protect agricultural crops from the city and from floods. Every year we treat farmers who suffer damage from the city and from floods, and very little we invest preventively to protect agriculture and agricultural producers from these damages resulting from these natural phenomena. When I say this, I mean that today we protect our crops from the city the way they were protected 50 years ago and over. The question is also to compare statistics on how much the farmers suffer from damage from the city in the Netherlands, France or another country, and how the construction clouds develop there, both in Serbia. We're still protecting ourselves to use that term, the blanks, that is, we have primitive anti-urban protection, because we have people who are paid by local self-government to watch over construction cannons and protect agricultural crops. So that local self-government that doesn't have enough resources to pay those shooters, they're not very often in position, so there's damage, and I think that the Ministry of Agriculture has to find a way to solve this issue in a comprehensive way in the Republic of Serbia. When I said we should protect ourselves from floods, I think a lot of resources need to be directed more towards the Republic Water Directorate. Today, we have a huge problem in Serbia that many rivers, many streams and all those streams, which come from these rivers and streams, are the reason why they are abandoned, clouded, nothing has been cleaned for years, and when it comes to great rains, normally these amounts of water cannot be placed in the predicted water streams and there are unwanted consequences, and the consequences are catastrophic. We have a final example of a swallow and I don't know which other cities. So, as doctors would say, we better act preventively, not then pay for the damage to these people, these producers and residents, citizens who have suffered the damage. The second question and the second ministry to which I will point is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, primarily in the youngest category, those funds that are designed to help families who are having children, whether first, second or third, and we in Serbia must finally face one great truth, which is that Serbia is growing by population year by year. According to some of the statistics that I have come up with, Serbia is reducing by one city of 30 to 40,000 people each year. In Serbia, at this moment 200 settlements are disappearing, biologically disappearing, and there is no one left to live in those parts. That's why we have to fight a decisive battle against the white plague, and the question is how. Small funds are those provided for in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this area. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the citizens of Serbia, I'm just going to say that we in the Jagodina municipality are fighting against the white plague. By decision of the Jagodin municipality of 1 January 2008, each fourth, fifth, sixth or any subsequent child will receive 200 euros per month from the municipality of Jagodin until the age of 1st. So this year and earlier, every newborn child, no matter what material position the family is in, gets 200 euros or 16,000 dinars right after birth. We help preschool and school kids, champions when they go to first grade, regardless of their parents' material status, they get 5,000 dinars. Such and similar moves must also be predicted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that it plans resources in a much larger scale and helps Serbia overcome the white plague, to hear newborns cry as much as possible and in as many families in Serbia as possible. I can't leave this booth without you, Mr. Minister, not making one remark about how you did it, but how governments used to do it when it comes to local self-government. They can't put all local self-governments in the same basket, and those who save and give their citizens funds from the budget, and those which are mainly dedicated to buying expensive cars, for various managers, advisers, major urbanists, etc. There are no counselors in Jagodin municipality, no manager, no major urbanist, because there's a service that does it. All the money that would go to these salaries goes to the citizens of the Jagodin municipality for all kinds of help, social and other. That's why we're being punished in some way. I'm going to tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, in its decision, freed some of the companies that are in the so-called so-called "Serbs". restructuring from the obligation to pay the property tax, and it is known that the property tax is 100 per cent - income from local self-government. I'm ordering every government, even this one, if you want to be Santa Claus and give someone something to, give yours, not someone else's. Therefore, what is the original income of local self-government must belong to local self-government or be replaced in some other way. That's a recommendation to this government for the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this was on my side and on the part of the Unique Serbia was not a criticism of the budget. This is my modest contribution and contribution to turning to ourselves, to direct the budget towards all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to all local self-government in an equal manner. I repeat, regardless of the remarks made, we Members of the Single Serbia who are at the DSS Parliament Club and the NS will support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14022	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has a minister of finance from the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic. The minister asked for a word just before the debate ended. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to close, but not at the very end, I say a few sentences. Unfortunately, I have to go to the government, and what's left behind, we'll have opportunities, we'll hang out, we've got a table and some amendments, so we'll be able to talk. Now I would give a few observations about what was said at the outset, with really grateful for the criticism, ideas and even the approach that went to the greatest extent constructive. On the one hand, certain objections were made to the height of each division. This mentions agriculture as something that should be bigger in some future budget. Then, health care also lacks resources and is also a small means of social protection. At the same time, the level of funds predetermined for the NIP and the amount of predetermined funds was criticised, it was told of Mladjan Dinkic, and it was not said for which ministry. Of course, I can say that it is the right for everyone to assess, but that these remarks that have been made will be taken into account when considering further policy, of course not for 2008. One of the MPs again updated yesterday's water-related story in northern Kosovo, and finally did not quote my words correctly, so I would like to say that at first he said everything exactly, but said that I allegedly said that there was nothing of it. No, I said the finance ministry, under the existing law, can't handle it. That is why he will go on a proposal to make a specific law on the problem, because without it he cannot be solved. The question of the cluster translation, because probably underneath it could be a tape bomb. Otherwise, the official translation is that "class" means clusters or groups, or individual elements that are packed into one cluster. But if it's a criticism about using foreign words, I can accept it and, in that sense, take a little more account. Data is also a finding that securities emissions are worth printing money and thus dangerous for inflation. I mean, that's not true. Actually, the opposite. Securities emissions, if they include government securities of value, which emits either a budget of a very small size or a National Bank in a significantly larger amount, so the emissions of these papers are tasked with withdrawing liquidity. They say that - to sterilize. Basically, that's how you withdraw money. It's this money that's invested in buying these papers and this operation has the opposite of a money printing operation, where you're essentially pumping up an extra amount of money in the economy. This is where you draw the money. Secondly, it was about the consolidated account of the Treasury as something that constitutes an element of non-transparency in spending funds. I just want to let you know that the consolidated account of the vault is one term used to collect all the account vaults. So it's not one account in the sense that it's one so that everyone fits into it, but there's a whole series of accounts of various budget users and when you say "consolidated vault account" it just means one mathematical operation -- that you take off the balance from all these accounts and express it within one digit, or long and demand side. Someone also said the state uses this budget to take 93% of its citizens. In fact, I'd say it's a little imprecise here. It's not 93%, it's 100%, and it's not from the citizens, but from the economy and from the citizens of this country. So that's what citizens and businesses create, regardless of what it's called tax or non-tax revenue, so 100 percent of the budget is taken from that cake that we make together here and, of course, that 100 percent is spent. There have been objections to the State Auditing Institution and to the amount of 296 000 dinars allocated to them, which is insufficient. I do not understand the meaning of the remarks, let me be more precise, given that the budget for the State Auditing Institution provides 500 times more funds than those 296, so 150 million dinars are foreseen, close to two million euros. These are the funds that will be available to her in the following year, so that there is no way of talking about putting that institution in a bad situation. Of course, all the beginnings are difficult. I believe she's having problems now that she's just founded - no rooms, no nothing. That's logical, but let's not forget that it was founded a month or two ago, and we're talking about something that's going to happen in 2008. As far as the white plague and these proposals are concerned, I think the proposals are very interesting and I am personally advocating national strategy and population policy, which would solve even this VAT problem, i.e. solve the problem at all - what we want and how we want to act stimulatingly, so that we have good examples from the locals. Let's see what the effects are, but as a suggestion, it's very good. Here, I'd like to complete this brief exposure. I want us to continue as constructively as possible to hang around the amendments and, of course, I recommend that you finally give your positive vote for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14024	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14025	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that the minister is leaving because I have one question about the way in which the budget is spent, quite motherly, and it is a sum of 40 million dinars, which Mladjan Dinkic practically donated to the Trepca Kombita. The combination that hasn't worked practically for seven years, no production starts, all sales are being sold out, everything is being destroyed, everything is falling apart, but the other day, the Trepca Combinate held some kind of celebration, I don't know on behalf of what and why. The highest recognition was given to Prime Minister Kostunica. Here's an illustrative example of how that money is spent. Trepca's combination owned a business space in Knez Mihail Street of 229 square meters, so Belgrade's most exclusive place. The president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija of the National Assembly is otherwise a member of the Management Board of the Trepca Kombinata Management Board, so the director of Trepce, without a decision of the Management Board, without the advertising or bid procedure being carried out, concludes a contract with the buyer, which sells this exclusive space at the price of 2,200 euros per square, which is two to three times cheaper than the real price of business space in Knez Mihail Street. And which is additionally interesting, so as if his property, no tender or bidding, no board decision, a man sells as if his private property, at a price that is two to three times lower than real, and then in that contract a purchase price should be paid in a jury account of the unique organization of the Trepce Union. Watch out, that phenomenon. What difference does it make, how do you spend money like alaibe's straw? Then 70,000 euros is the first war, and says the rest of the purchase price will be paid in eight equal wars, and there is no when they start or when they end, but has the customer's authority to register immediately. It's a story of budget spending, it's a story of the state being sold out for good, it's a concern for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, not to talk about crime related to the sale of the Trepce lead concentrate. There are people here who are members of the board of directors, president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, member of the Management Board of Trepce, so it would be our turn to illustratively explain how the budget is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14026	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The People's MP Marko Milenkovic has the word, and then the MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in which we are today when we need to adopt the budget at the last minute, imposes a fundamental question on us - who is to blame? Whether it was MPs of the opposition or representatives of DS, DSS and G17, who had previously tortured citizens of Serbia for months, brought scandalous provisional financing regulations, and when they finally settled the government, their goal was not to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, their goal was not to economic development and a better standard of all citizens, their goal was not to establish a rule of law guaranteeing the security and equality of citizens, but rather to share cakes and spend the budget of the Republic of Serbia or to spend people's money. The budget of one country is the most true indicator of whether the state is well arranged or not. When you came to power in 2000, you promised citizens all life benefits and a rational and efficient state. And where are we today and how do we live? From November 8th to November 30th, three budget variants arrived. Compared to the first variant, the last variant of the budget increases costs by 100 million dinars, mostly for Dinkic, for lending to tourism through various agencies, without criteria, by law, by some regulations. Through today's budget projection, Vladanam again sends a bad message because the state is actually redistributing 639,600,300,000 dinars, of which only 596 billion were collected by taxes, 15 billion taxes, eight billion fines, three billion from gambling, and only 18 billion from other non-tax revenues, we wonder which? In an unconvincing minister's statement, as if he did not believe what he read, Minister Cvetkovic is in one right: the government of the Republic of Serbia is a record man in the 2008 budget deficit. Furthermore, you say that for the budget deficit and the expenditure based on the payment of debt and the purchase of financial assets, amounting to 89 billion dinar, you will provide funds from privatisation incomes, loans, donations and financial assets of the budget. Here you connect incompatiblely, you list inaccurately, in one place all possible sources of income and you think you have explained Article 2. Draft budget law for 2008. In Article 3, you courageously acknowledge that the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia at the end of September of this year amounted to 9,044.13.797 euros, and by the 2008 budget, by providing guarantees and new loan and loan, you owe us with 1,341,550,000 euros, without interest, creating new debt obligations for the citizens of Serbia. You are offering a draft budget law for 2008 which is neither developmental nor social, but a non-real consumer, with an unseen solution to the problem of educational workers, civil servants and workers in local self-government, agricultural producers, students, pensioners and the most socially endangered layers of the population. You do not offer equal regional development, especially the development of poor municipalities, you do not look at workers who have lost their jobs in a chaotic, robbery privatisation since 5 October 2000 until today, you do not provide enough resources for favourable loans to agricultural producers, you do not subsidize and regress war and livestock production that is in an ever worse situation, but that is why you satisfy the interests of the ruling coalition, because the money of the budget that citizens collect is the fusion element of the old-new co-habitation government of Vojislav Kostunica, and that national money irons all disagreements between members of the government - the life and money master in Serbia. You're constantly unnecessarily setting up a large number of agencies and you're giving them huge budgets, and then you're doing the same soloing later, giving them monopoly jobs. The definition of the budget is clear. With this budget, the government is selling out our inheritance by privatizing and taking new loans to finance its needs, and the result is the same: destroying the future of our citizens. In addition, you show less money than taxis in 2006 or in 2008 the same gambling money as three years ago. Who's going to believe that? In the hierarchy of legal acts, only the Constitution is above the budget. However, because of the presidential elections, you hurried with the adoption of legislation on the military, on defence, on security services, on the president, on foreign affairs, while pushing the budget aside, although these topics are closely linked, because only the new Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS guarantee real budget financing, its development component and a better standard for all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14028	Thank you, Mr. Milenkovic. The People's Messenger Radovan Radovanovic has the word, and then the Messenger of Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14029	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, today my colleague Pastor asked me who you're going to congratulate today. Well, I wish I hadn't heard that someone from this pay phone did it, on behalf of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and on behalf of most MPs of this National Assembly, I congratulate Professor Rajko Kuzmanovic in his election as President of Republika Srpska. Congratulations to the party he belongs to, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats. Why am I doing this? Because it is still a people to whom I belong and where I came from, and I am glad that they resolve what is set before them. When I spoke to my friends and relatives from Republika Srpska and asked why the SRS score was so weak, they told me in a joke that most of their radicals were sent to us. I believe that's not the case, but it reflects the quality of the program and the man who was the candidate of the party. I would also like to congratulate the president of this National Assembly, Mr. Dulic, because at least for me, he has shown that he has a spine and wants to solve problems, not build them up. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the law that we adopted not so long ago in this people's home, came to this house on November 30th this year, meaning with a great delay and a great deal of pressure, especially from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt it by December 15th, as long as the law says it is necessary. I think it'll be a little inconclusive, no matter what the president's intention is to force it all. Will you ever talk and watch who's to blame for such bill coming in with such a delay? I hope so. Everyone talks about what hurts the most, and I have to remind this home of Article 184(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which literally states: the budget of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the budget of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina being used to finance capital expenditures. The Ministry and those who proposed this law tried to in Article 4. The draft budget law gets a little complicated and makes this law some original part of it by trying to show what it is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will belong to the AP Vojvodina budget, which, in my opinion and most of us, is very unwisely done and unnecessarily done in this way. What was I going to suggest? At least it's math, it's chairing the best of all of us right now, it's an exact science, it can't be like this. The proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget, rounding the figures, is approximately 655 billion dinars for 2008. If you take at least 7%, then that Article 4 of this proposed law could simply write that the AP Vojvodina budget will be equal to 45 billion dinars, and not in this way 18% of this, 42% of that, of which it can never be measured because there are no mechanisms for anyone to control it. As it was last year, I will try to illustrate the case of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. The fund was formed on December 12th 2006, as it celebrated yesterday the anniversary of its formation, and the founding role of the fund was 800m dinars, which were secured from the AP Vojvodina budget. By September 30th, around four billion 474m dinars were spent from the fund, and according to the AP Vojvodina budget from the Republic of Serbia's budget, this fund was planned to merge 20,529,729,181,83 dinars. By September 30th, the current year of this money was transferred to this fund only two billion. We heard here assurances from the Deputy Prime Minister and the minister that by the end of the year these other 18.5 billion will be transferred. It sounds amazing to me, and I'm more likely to believe what most people say this fund is going to do in 2007 with only 40% of the projected funds. The representatives of this fund talk about Vojvodina, print brochures that through the fund will be placed into investments in Vojvodina 22 billion this year, and that in 2008, there will be 29 billion. I believe that this is simply impossible, and I believe that the citizens of the AP Vojvodina are this way to be deceived, because, at best, maybe something over 40% of this money will arrive. We have a position in the budget called the National Investment Plan, and that position envisions 18.8 billion in 2008 to be spent. One big hoax in me is written inside, and it is directed to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and to the citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia, and it reads this way -- of these 9.8 billion of these funds belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SamAP Vojvodina, and the AP Vojvodina belongs to 9 billion of these funds. When the citizens look at it at first glance, then they will have a lot of right to say, so what do these duchess rebel when they belong to 50% of all the funds provided for by the National Investment Plan? The dukes do not need such positions, we are asking for nothing more than to honor the above mentioned member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which accurately predicted what and how much the least belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget of the Republic of Serbia. There are serious indications that in Vojvodina, preparations are under way for the award to be given to one who solves how you do the 7% according to the AP Vojvodina budget. I want to draw particular attention, I think it concerns all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the attitude of the bill to local self-government. I will round the figures, according to the finance ministry's position that about 36.1 billion dinars will be transferred in 2008 to local self-government. First, this reflects how far the Republic of Serbia has come with decentralisation. Secondly, the practice so far has shown, and I believe that this ministry will behave as well, that these funds have been shared without any criteria, i.e. the Ministry of Finance has managed so far. I'll show you on the Duke's case. The smallest municipality in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are the Sremski Karlovci, slightly larger Irig. The Karlovci have about 9,000 citizens, Irig has nearly 11,000 citizens and Baki Petrovac is slightly larger. In 2005 and 2006, these three local self-governments received more transferred funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget than, for example, in 2005 and 2006. The municipality of Backo Topola, which has almost 40,000 inhabitants and 23 settlements. I want to point out the positions of pensioners that they can easily recognise in this proposed law, and look at them in the following: from 2001 to 2003, the Republic of Serbia increased its pensions four times; from 2004 to 2007, to today, these pensions have increased only twice. We heard from the minister that a third of all needs of this pension fund will be transferred directly to the PIO from the budget. If I remember correctly, it's about 177 billion dinars. I think it would be much better if the government of the Republic of Serbia were to deal with the fact that the minimum base of pay in the Republic of Serbia is often and most often the amount that employers pay through a jury account or as it is said today through legal flows. Salaries are much higher and more frequent in the larger amount than they are paid through the giro-accounts are paid in envelopes, i.e. on black, which all seems to be the average salary in the Republic of Serbia certainly greater than what is shown when only what has been passed over the giro-account, i.e. that our pensioners are cut off fat, because on the basis of the average salary, pensioners count well, the basis for paying out pensions is calculated. The government of the Republic of Serbia must find mechanisms and find ways to get in the way, it can probably never completely stand in the way of all of this, this way of acting much of our entrepreneurs, but at least somewhat to eradicate it because it will certainly make our pensioners live better, i.e. to transfer less money directly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the PIO, or the Pension Fund. At the very end, let me mention something that is much to my eyes, which is the treatment of the State Auditing Institution, both in this draft budget and in total by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I was able to find out, it is predicted that only 67 people in 2008 do this job in our Republic, which is unimaginable for me that 67 people, who do not have a roof over their heads, who are provided for a lot of small salaries, are underly motivated, will manage to control all of this and keep an eye on how money is spent from this budget and from all other budgets in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. From counterpart Nenada Canka, you heard that because of this, the Vojvodjanski MPs would not support this year's draft budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14030	National MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been another budget similar to that of the previous years since Serbia's DOS rule. The budget is a picture and opportunity of the situation in the government of the Republic of Serbia and relations between coalition partners. For all those imaginary agencies, the budget items of many directorates, the ruling coalitions are literally disseminating state funds by identifying them as much as possible towards ministries, directorates, administrations and agencies where their party colleagues are sitting. They simply don't care about the general misery of the population in Serbia, they don't care what they want to take from us Kosovo and Metohija, they don't care that the security of citizens in the Republic of Serbia is zero. Serbia's army is destroyed, unprepared to protect Kosovo and Metohija. The border of the Republic of Serbia is not guarded, literally hollow as Swiss cheese, and in the whole situation, the minister makes the army listen to his father-in-law sing in the hall on December 10th, on the day Serbia splits between survival and disappearance. I get the impression that some ministers don't think well of the state of Serbia. That's what we had the opportunity to hear from them personally and remember only Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and his declaration of NATO love alliances. I'm saying this for the reason that I've been looking at the division of the Ministry of Defence and I've gotten the impression that nothing literally happens in Serbia and around Serbia. The situation is regular, there are no major military expenditures, as if Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were not threatened by an exodus as of 17 March. The army, I mean the ones that aren't in maternity care and nursing homes, like they've become a communal enterprise. Unseriousness with regard to strengthening technical equipment, the training of members of the Serbian Army is well seen by these defined means, as if the government and its minister were afraid to buy one more can for a military meal, as if the government and its minister were afraid to buy one more bullet to defend the sovereignty of the Serbian state, as if an armed force should not be created worthy of famous ancestors and glorious history. In this section, paragraph 485 provides for compensation for damages caused by public authorities in the amount of 704 million dinars. Now I'm asking, for who knows which time, will the money finally be allocated from these funds to compensate the citizens of Paracino and Mupri, and because of the situation surrounding the explosion of the military warehouse? Just to remind you, the remaining debt is about 270 million dinars for natural persons and owners of businesses. The day before yesterday, I did not understand the reaction of the ruling coalition MPs, more specifically the Democratic Party MPs, when the Deputy Prime Minister, known as "the Duke of Meridian Bank", could hear the disfavors of the SRS MPs, which is because of those 11m euros, though, in actions that have been sold in the meantime. Why is that? If we are to judge by the defined budgets for the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, then I understand what the DS MPs have done. They literally welcomed the Prime Minister. On page 13. The draft budget is clearly seen, something amazing, this is probably only possible in the country of Serbia, perhaps in an African country. What's this about? The determined funds for the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia amount to 59m449 000 dinars. The specified funds for the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister "the Duke of Meridian Bank" amount to 91 million 739 thousand. If you want to do math, then Boza Djelic, "the Duke of Meridian Bank" has more than 21 million defined funds from the Prime Minister. Now a simple question - does Kostunica work less or does Bozidar Djelic have greater powers? As far as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is concerned, I would like to mention -- the defined funds of the Forest Administration. We know that last year the fire took tens of thousands of acres of forest. Behind those fires remained a wasteland in Serbia's forests. Economic balance has been marred, land is exposed to erosion, and settlements have experienced terrible floods after heavy rains, especially in the south of Serbia, where the most fires were seen. For a reminder, said counterpart Plužarevic, the fire affected about 33,000 hectares of forests, which died, of which 12,000 state and 21,000 private-owned forests. The total cost of extinguishing the fire alone amounted to about 35 million dinars, while the damage is estimated at 150 million dinars. Looking at the defined funds of the Forest Administration, I get the impression that there are no dedicated means to resuscitate the firehouse. And speaking of fires, I would ask MPs, and the public, how many more planes did the European Union send to put out fires in Serbia? Or how many planes did NATO send a pact to put out fires in Serbia? Even so, they send planes when there's supposed to be fires, fires, bombings. The only help our brothers from Russia gave us. If the Russians hadn't come, Serbia would have literally burned to Avala. It's just that without the Russians, you can't, like it or not. As for subsidies in agriculture, it's an old-fashioned method, and it's defined for a subsidy of about 15 billion and 300 million dinars, except this time it's not a line from G 17 plus but from the Democratic Party. The process is the same, they're well organized, let's say by quotes - the democratic farmers, it's a bit weird this combination, the invention projects and the money are there. What kind of farms, plantations, vineyards, pastures? That's not gonna happen. There's gonna be disco clubs, cafes, casinos, whatever the recipe is. Yes, Mrs. Kolundzija, according to your party colleague's prescription, former ministerial traffic from the Democratic Party, Maria Rasete-Vukosavljevic, you know why. In the principle debate of MPs from the ruling coalition, or DOS parties, someone said literally: we sold one year one year, the second year, we sold cements, sugars, tobacco industry, and Serbia knows how it was sold. I'm saying you didn't sell it. You already gave it away for free. When you were so smart, why didn't you arrest Kolesar for cement in Popovac and Sartide? So the existing group of the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such a budget proposal, for the citizens of Serbs nothing good, only greater misery, uncertainty and apathy. Finally, since I am the last speaker of this budget debate, I would tell Serbian citizens that on January 20th, Serbia, by defeating Tomislav Nikolic, will enter a period of prosperity, strengthening and stability and that with the help of our sincere and brotherly ally, the great and powerful Russia, will preserve comprehensive Serbia. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14032	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Since we have exhausted a list of MPs' speakers, are representatives of the parliamentary groups reporting for a word, or is it someone who has not used his right under Article 93? Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you very much. I am concluding a principled search into the 2008 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia. Single Search on Proposals for Decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2008: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance; (b) the National Employment Service and (v) the Republic Health Insurance Office. We move on to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on privatisation and the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Now we're not opening a principle search. I am taking this opportunity, there was congratulation, to congratulate His Royal Highness, Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic, Princess Katarina, sons, family of Karadjordjevic, congratulating the glory of the Holy apostle Andrej the First Named. I'm setting a break. We'll continue our work at 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 2-3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Privatization and Proposal for Law on the Law on Free Action and Monetary Compensation which CITIZES IN THE PRIVATION PROCEDURE (together in principle) Consensual Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on the Law on Free Action and Money Refunds made by citizens in the privatisation process, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you to comply with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The forms have arrived. Please take them. I am informing the National Assembly that the mandated representative of the SPS MP on this agenda is MP Milisav Petronijevic, that representatives of the SRS parliamentary club are MPs Zdravko Topalović and Veroljub Arsic, and that the mandated representative of the DS MP Dragan Vujadinovic. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and the Proposal for a law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Let me now, at the beginning of the debate, give my word to myself to answer some questions that were raised during the morning and related to calling presidential elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you've been informed, yesterday I sent a notice to the heads of Parliament and to the vice presidents of the National Assembly, asking that the MPs be informed that during yesterday's presidential election will be called. It was my constitutional obligation, and it is an obligation arising from the Constitutional Law, which we are all trying to stick to the extent possible, given the real political opportunities we have. As you know, from the very beginning of this House, we have been having a problem in fulfilling the constitutional law obligations, because it has been a very long time, so that all those obligations that the Constitutional Law has provided for, and as far as legislative activities are concerned, this Parliament will meet in time. Thanks, first of all, to all of you, all the parliamentary groups and all the political parties, the correct and constructive work, we have managed to pass all the laws necessary to call presidential elections in a relatively short time, in very long parliamentary debates. It is six laws -- a law that defines the election of the President of the Republic, a law that defines the position of the President of the Republic and four laws that define the military, defence, security services and foreign affairs. I also hope that also by constructive work in the next period we will vote the laws that are necessary for local elections to be discussed. I call on you now to allow this Parliament to pass these necessary laws in the next week or in the next two weeks, by the end of the year, constructive work. The decision taken is fully in accordance with the Constitutional Law and the Constitution. The constitution wanted the presidential elections to take place this year. The constitution wanted the laws necessary for calling presidential elections to be passed maybe even at the beginning of the year. When a constitutionalist has defined the obligations under the Constitutional Law, in particular obligations relating to terms and deadlines, it is then provided that the deadline for calling the presidential election is 31 December 2007, and if those laws are passed earlier, that the term for calling the presidential elections is not later than 60 days from the entry into force of the last law defined by the Constitutional Law. We all know that very well. In the last few months, we've had intense debates on the subject when the presidential election should be called. There were many different legal interpretations, but we were all aware that these laws needed to be passed and they were finally passed. As for challenging the president's election terms, that's a matter to discuss. The intensive consultations are ongoing on the date of the presidential election in the last few months. I have always been correct, in conversations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, trying to keep them informed of the intensity of these consultations, regarding the date when the presidential elections will be called. There were several dates that were in the option. We are all witnessing that these dates were also in the media, there were many media speculations, on January 20th was one of the dates on which media speculation existed. There have been a lot of talks about the term of the election and the date when the elections will be held, but in the end there was no agreement, and I guess that's why there were reactions from one of the MPs' clubs that I respect here. Any challenge to the constitutionality of the decision should be given to its epilogue at the Constitutional Court. During yesterday, 10 judges of the Constitutional Court took an oath before me, as president of the Assembly. In fact, the Constitutional Court is beginning to function today and I ask anyone who intends to challenge that decision to address the Constitutional Court. It would not be good if the presidential election process at such a difficult time that the country is in place, when there is a need to fully legitimise and strengthen our country's institutions, is delegitizing something at the very beginning which, in my opinion, represents a cholastic legal debate, and as regards the date when the laws enter into force. Some laws come into force these days. The law under which the presidential elections will be held, therefore, the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic came into force yesterday, and then, in my deep confidence, the conditions for the elections to be discussed under the law. By the time the President of the Republic is elected, all necessary laws defining his competences in all these areas that have been defined by these laws will enter into force. Again, I don't want to argue about it. Let's get your court to the Constitutional Court. What I would like to do is to invite you to a proper dialogue, to a correct debate on topics that are on the agenda today, not to go into the assembly speaker now in any debate that you might be able to burden the further legislative process in this assembly, which, I repeat again, must be intense. What I want to look back on today is in deep agreement with one job I've been trying to do here for the past seven months, regarding the relationship between parliament, as legislative authorities, as the country's highest democratic body, and the executive authority. Now I want to ask a parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia – who gives the right to the professional services of the Government of Serbia to comment in any way on the decisions made by this home? Where does the right of any government authority to interfere in Parliament's affairs and challenge Parliament's decisions? Under what law, on the basis of which constitutional norms are the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia dare to do anything related to the work of this Parliament? The government of Serbia's professional services should, for example, comment on amendments submitted by MPs to the budget, professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should do their job. Tomorrow, whether I am President of Parliament or any of you, we must never again allow the government to interfere in the work of Parliament in such a flexible way. This is my belief that I want to share with you. It's inadmissible and it can't happen anymore. Political parties have the right to express their views, but no one has the right to use such an important institution, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to state a position that is obviously a political organisation's position. To the very end, I would honestly ask you, since the question of my responsibility is mentioned here, if the Constitutional Court finds that my decision was against the constitution, it will, of course, be withdrawn and then, of course, I will not be president of this house. If 126 MPs demand my shift with their signatures, it will be the shortest debate in this House's history, but be sure, and if that happens, I will go with full confidence that the decision I made was in full compliance with the Constitution and the law and that we have allowed our citizens to choose such an important man as the President of our country as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14035	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14036	Article 27, Article 104 and Article 226. So I feel that, in some ways, this was the answer to what I said this morning when I argued, I will remind you, that the decision to call presidential elections has been made despite the fact that a number of laws, which is numbered in Article 3. The constitutional law has not entered into force, although it is simple and simple to read the provision of Article 3. The constitutional law can see that these really are the preconditions for taking this kind of action. I didn't say it was anything particularly terrible, except that a coalition agreement was broken in one part, because it was done without the consent of the partners. On the other hand, it is terrible if one valid provision and the Constitutional Law are violated. I said that there is a cure and, of course, to correct one such decision or correction, to return to the old and make a re-determination in accordance with the Constitutional Law, the problem can be solved. Of course, I haven't talked for a moment about the election date. That wasn't a topic for a moment. It's not something that recaptures our thoughts. We talked about other things, about Kosovo and Metohija, about a Security Council session to be held on December 19th. That's what recaptures our thoughts. Speaking of dates, we said the deadline was December 31st, but yesterday was not December 31st, nor today is December 31st. So by December 31st, we have about 17 days. I don't see what was such a problem in those 17 days to make a decision that would be undeniable, but indisputable among all, whoever interpreted Article 3(2) of this Law, was made to be fully in accordance with the Constitutional Law. So I don't see what the problem was. That's what I'm saying. Next thing you know, when it comes to responsibility, we from the DSS have said very clearly our position. The question and disrespect of the agreement, and responsibilities, etc, may be raised, but we will not ask it. I explained why: no, for now. Because of the December 19th Security Council session on Kosovo and Metohija, and because it is likely that after that Security Council session, the need will follow, as announced, that this assembly also pleads on this very important issue and that some of the answers that the public expects from us. It's an absolute priority for us. Nothing else can be beyond that. As for determining responsibility in some other bodies or bodies, I simply cannot accept it because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Constitution and under the Constitutional Court Act, decides on the constitutionality and legality of general acts. The election act is an individual act. Therefore, this topic will never be found in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14037	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14038	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, you've performed today, about as much as the day you were elected president. Then, I remind you and the public, of course, against the Rules of Procedure, you have kept a monologue, and promised that the Assembly will work day and night, how we will respect the Constitution, how we will respect the obligations of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. That's when we drew your attention that you couldn't perform like that. Now I also draw attention to you for not being able to announce yourself. You had a vice president next to you. Mr. Judjevic should have sat down where you are and announced you as a MP, because you can, of course, discuss as all the MPs. Your explanations that you need to give about calling elections as president of parliament, that's what you should have done at a press conference. I have to tell you, none of what you said, unfortunately, is true. First of all, we did not pass the laws that we were bound by the Constitutional Law, within the deadlines provided for by the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. The elections you have called are not in accordance with the Constitution, because it is true that only one law has entered into force, and that is the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. The other three laws have not yet entered into force; two will enter into force on 19 December, as they were published on 11 December in the Official Messenger, and the Law on the Army enters into force only on 1 January 2008. Mr. Dulic, your legal advisors have not advised you well, obviously. Article 3 The Law implementing the Constitution, in its second position, provides that elections for the President of the Republic are to be called by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last law governing the position and election for the President of the Republic, defence and the Serbian Army, foreign affairs and security services. So these are cumulative conditions, very clearly and precisely defined by this law, and you didn't have constitutional conditions to call the elections. This address of yours just looked like a farewell speech to me. I expected you to say you'd resign by now. You have, however, promised to do so if the Constitutional Court finds that the unconstitutional decision you made. What are your motives and why are you rushing to Boris Tadic and DS, that's your thing, but you had to make sure that the laws were passed in accordance with and within the deadlines for the revised Constitution, that all four laws came into force, and then you just had the conditions to call the elections. Of course, as far as the SRS and our relationship to the election is concerned, tomorrow our Central Country Authority will make a decision. I am convinced that the candidate will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I am even more convinced that Mr Tomislav Nikolic will also be the president of the Republic after these elections. I'd rather have you wait for these deadlines and call the elections in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14039	I thank Mrs. Radetti. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. I'm sorry that, at first, I took the floor, but there was a need to explain the things that were figured out here this morning, as far as the presidential election is concerned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14040	Dear Mr President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, today, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will explain two draft laws and it is very important laws, which, on the one hand, will show continuity since 2001 in one key transition process, which is the process of property transformation, and on the other hand, will allow half of our citizens to participate in the process. It is about the law on amendments to the Law on privatisation and the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Why are these laws important? They're important because we have a privatisation process that, of course, like all processes of this type, cannot meet all needs. At the same time, we want to establish an efficient economy, to make this process fair, but still continuity during the four cabinets of the proposed concept of privatisation in 2001, for which I remind the radicals, when proposed in 2001, said they were in principle good. Of course, they didn't vote for him, but I think it was clear that the proposed privatisation model in our circumstances, respecting the experience of all other countries in transition, was optimal. As a predominant method of privatisation, open competition for a particular economic operator, as regards auctions, for one who proposes the best financial conditions, and as regards larger enterprises through the process so-called. a tender. At the price, there are conditions for investment and social programme. That experience has proved to be a very good model. Of course, he's not perfect either. We have 15%, that's the Agency's estimate of privatisation contracts that have to be broken, because a number of new owners have failed to meet their own obligations. The act of breakup itself has shown that this model yields results, because in fact it is also a confirmation that it is not giving up on the original goals that were proposed at the moment of privatisation itself. Today, and I will begin first with amendments to the Privatisation Act, the proposed rounding of the first process is given a new real deadline by the end of next year, to round up the privatisation of so-called. the social work of our property. Another law allows all those who have not yet participated in the privatisation process to have a chance to participate in it. I know that today's exposure will be of paramount importance to all those citizens who have not yet participated in this process, that it is about pensioners, students, peasants, officials, housewives, soldiers, members of our armed forces, members of our public services, education, health care, justice, the word of all those who have been in previous years, and some of them for decades, made a major contribution to the construction of our country and its economy. Now they have the opportunity to participate in this process. Allow me, Mr. President, the honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the law on amendments to the Privatisation Act. We have nine key proposed changes, because it's about amendments to the law that already exists. The first proposed amendment is that the deadline for the completion of the privatisation process for social enterprises is set, i.e. The announcement calls for a tender to be precise technical, i.e. auction by 31 December of next year. There was a previous deadline, and that was December 31st this year. I don't think those extra 12 months are too late for the process. On the contrary, if we compare Serbia's performance with other transition countries, we will see that this process has been very effectively brought to an end and what's left will be completely certainly completed in the next 12 months. Under two, conditions for participation in privatisation are tightened. Privatisation for convicted persons and persons subject to criminal proceedings for certain serious crimes is prohibited. In this way, we do not introduce legal uncertainty, but only explicitly make it clear that it will not tolerate the entry of dirty capital and that only those who have not sinned about the law will be able to participate in this process. Third change, speeding up the process. Experience has shown that simplification of procedures is necessary, especially in the preparation of privatisation companies through faster preparation of the necessary documentation. In Serbian, the remaining privatisation companies are, as a rule, the ones where there are the biggest burdens, the biggest problems, and it is only fair to propose faster and simpler procedures, so that they are privatised, too, to get a chance for a new start. In that sense, simplifying this procedure will give them that chance. Fourthly, the participation of employees in the distribution of surplus revenues from restructuring. These amendments and additions to the Law provide for the possibility that part of the excess revenue from the sale of the company's assets in restructuring, of course, after the initial settlement of the creditors, and thus does not derivate what is our legal order, where obligations must be respected, the possibility to distribute this surplus partially and to employees, according to the criteria and amounts to be established by the Government's regulation. This is something that is particularly interesting at this point, employees of RTB Bor, Genex and other enterprises in the restructuring process, that employees of these companies are not responsible for the difficulties in which these companies have found themselves. It is fair that if the money remains after the sale of the assets of these companies, when they are properly settled and on equal terms, all the credentials, that part of these revenues be allocated to employees in those companies. The government has already indicated the amounts involved, which is a minimum of 250 euros per year of work experience and a little more than certain opportunities. Either way, in this way and those employees in these companies, we show that this state, this government, has the capacity to provide them with certain benefits from the process they are going through, and it's often a painful process, and in this way we think it will make it possible for a better future and for those who are employed there. Fifth, it's about protecting employees after privatisation. Here we have the fruits of experience in Serbia. The obligation of the buyer to pay minimum earnings to employees, as well as the corresponding taxes, and to contribute for at least nine months during one year, is established, or if the payment falls within three months of one year, the contract is terminated. In this way, we allow employees after privatization to have their rights, mostly those concerning pensions, health insurance, insurance against unemployment, settle. Unless those obligations are fulfilled, the contract is terminated. Sixth, we have during the sale of enterprises, we have established a number of very complicated legal situations, especially in the domain of assets of former SFRY entities. The sale of the assets of these entities, as well as the deposit of the price reached, is possible. In other words, in no way will our country derivate negotiations concerning succession, they have so far been done in one correct way, so we expect them to be and rounded up in the years to come. On the other hand, we can't wait for it to be over to complete the privatisation of a number of subjects. The solution is also here, before you, honourable MPs, which is to be sold, and to settle any claims from the republic of the former SFRY, so that the money is not spent, but deposited in a special account with the National Bank of Serbia. The seventh change, it's protection from the trustees. One of the very important provisions that have so far been at the level of the sublegal act, and thus this law proposes that this successful provision be raised to place and to the level of the law, it is that in the course of privatisation of all enterprises, with an existing ban on those companies that are in the restructuring process, there is a ban on forced enforcement by all state creditors, to avoid dispersion, if you allow me such an expression, those assets, right at the very moment when there can be a new owner and a better future. And in this way protection from these creditors is specific, it will in no way derivate our established system, but is here to allow the remaining companies to privatise, to come to a moment of privatisation with total business, and in a way that will not be blocked by the account, disbursed property, a series of court proceedings, and in this way, as has unfortunately happened in several cases, there is nothing that would be a better future for employees in these companies. The eighth change, this is the continuation of the tender after the end of the contract before the price payment, it foresees the possibility of calling for a second-placed negotiation to avoid problems, one of these problems we have seen about the RTB Bor issue. You saw that within a few months we had two conflicting legal opinions. There's no reason for that to happen. It was a lack of clarity in the law, we're changing the law, and it's all clear this time, that we can carry out effective negotiations and call in the right way for the negotiations second-placed, unless the first-placer meets the conditions in which he is committed during the privatisation process. The last and most important proposed changes and additions, it is a better protection of state interests in the event of termination of the contract. And here we have the fruits of experience. So, first of all, this law prevents the customer from providing, through investments and capitalisation during the duration of the contract, control of the privatised company, even after the termination of the contract. Of course, like I said, there's a small number of such transactions, but there were still a few. This amendment of the law allows for better protection of the interests of the state, so that all acquired shares of the customer become their own business actions and return to the customer after all obligations have been carried out, i.e. the sale and the proceeds are given to the buyer in the event of the termination of the contract. In this way, a very clear solution is foreseen that if a contract is terminated, the customer who has failed to fulfil his own obligations cannot through certain legal actions that he would do after privatisation to sort of cement his own position and try to prevent a valid termination of this contract. The second element in terms of the protection of State interest after privatisation and in case of termination of the contract concerns more precise regulation of the takeover by the Action Fund after the termination of the contract and the ban on making key decisions by the management set up by the buyer during that period. We cannot allow a customer who has failed to fulfil his obligations in any way to prevent state authorities from taking control of that person. There were several cases like that. In this way and if this House votes these amendments and supplements, we will have every legal opportunity to prevent it. To round up my presentation of this first law, it's about changes that are of paramount importance, which is why they are in front of this esteemed home by emergency procedure, so we could give the right time and round up a process, which can in itself always be the subject of discussion, nowhere has this process been easy, nor is it easy in countries with a full market economy. Experience has shown in Serbia that the proposed model has shown very good results, observed shortcomings in these changes and additions are being removed and we expect that in this way, thinking mostly of employees in those enterprises that have not yet been privatised in our economy, and that is in some sense evidence in real life of superiority, in almost all cases, private property over any other form of property, and not that there should be any ideology. The state property has its place, the cooperative has its place, and there will be certain laws in front of this esteemed home that will allow for both joint investment and the functioning of the state and the private sector, but essentially where there is no natural monopoly or any other matter, and private property has been shown in the same sectors, as a rule, companies privatised have shown better results both in business and for their employees than those who have not yet gone through the process. This is a chance for these employees, for these companies, for these local environments and these branches to come up with more investment from owners who will be able to invest and improve the performance of these companies. Dear MPs, I would now like to explain a law that will allow four million of our citizens, according to the government's assessment, to come up with valuable assets, according to our estimate of no less than 1,000 euros per capita who will participate in this process. Of course, when I say these figures, in no way, because that's part of the market economy, we don't give a guarantee, but Serbia is proposing, on the one hand, that, like all countries in transition, open a privatisation process for those who don't work in businesses or who don't have the money to participate in the stock market and in some other ways in the capitalisation and work of businesses. Serbia, unlike almost all other countries in transition, offers citizens four million, people working in the state administration, professors, doctors, nurses, soldiers, police officers, housewives, pensioners, all those who have not participated in the privatisation process so far, offer six, to begin with, the most qualitative enterprises our country has. In this way, it will provide one real right over the values of actions that will enable three key processes to be launched. Now I would like to tell you that this law, first of all, allows half of our population to participate, more than half, in the privatisation process. It is in itself an extremely important act that allows this transition to be fair, that this market economy is rightly approaching all of our citizens, and that will be a moment when all our citizens, almost four million of them, will be able to get very valuable actions, which will be the fruit of their efforts in the years and decades that have preceded, but it will also open another process that is very important, which is a process that our country has not yet completed, it is a process of restructuring and improving the business of our public enterprises. In this way, our country will increase the performance of a key part of our economy from 2008 to 2010. Public enterprises aren't just any company. Effective public enterprises are a guarantee of the efficiency of the entire economic system. Competitive public companies that provide good services, affordable, provide competitiveness and efficiency for all other companies in our country, and give real services and opportunities to all citizens of our country. By the way, one of them, and it is "Telecom" Serbia, has already managed to perform on two markets in our neighbourhood, and this is about BiH and Montenegro, and in this way, I am confident, we will allow the formation of regional leaders, where there is a great chance for our country. It is certain, and I am convinced, that it will be the case in telecommunications, and in the case of electricity production, but I think this process will allow us to think a little bit more widely. The third process that opens here is the process of developing the capital market in one orderly way, in a transparent way. Our stock market is already one of the largest in the region, but still a stunt for some of the stock markets in transition countries. The emergence of these shares will be an opportunity for institutional investors, and there have been stories at the previous point of this agenda around the budget, will open up the possibility for investment, and not only for our citizens, but also for banks, insurance companies, pension funds, investment funds. In this way, Serbia will affirm itself as the financial and economic leader and centre of our region, not because we want it, but because it will be in reality and founded in these procedures. Allow me, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, to now specify a few provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14041	Mr. Djelic, I'm sorry, just a second. Since we have our Rules of Procedure, which obliges me to inform the MPs that, in accordance with Article 85(2), the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, or until the end of this period, not later than 20 hours. I'm sorry, I had to do that by 4:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14042	Thank you. We'll be together by 8:00. As far as the first aspect is concerned, which is the possibility that nearly four million citizens, our assessment at this point is that they are ril0.000 citizens, they are exercising the right, if they want to, to 15 percent of the company's market value, and those companies that are among the most famous and most valuable in our country. It's about, of course, EPS, NIS, JAT, Nikola Tesla Airport, Galenika and Telekom. That's not all. The law on privatisation since 2001 has provided for one such possibility and we already have shares of 68 companies, according to an estimate, worth 200m to 250m euros, which will be divided at the same time. Therefore, when we talk about the distribution of free shares, we are also talking about the division of cash compensation, because it would not be effective for nearly four million citizens to share shares at such small amounts. That wouldn't be effective and it wouldn't be worth it to the citizens at all. We will allow citizens, where the amount of the sale of these shares and the value of these shares is relatively low, to receive a cash compensation. Who has the right, according to this proposed law, to free stock and cash compensation? The rights are opened to all the full-time citizens of our country under the following conditions: that they are full-time on 31 December 2007 and that they are on the day of their registration, because since January of next year, and in a proposed period that will not be less than six months, all citizens will be able to register, so we expect all of them to be included in the list next year. This is how we showed that participation in democratic life, participation in something that is active as a citizen is a prerequisite for achieving certain rights in the domain of privatisation. This is the right way to complete democracy and the market economy. Secondly, they are required to be citizens on June 30th 2007. One of the good aspects of this law, which we are proud of, is that the Serbian passport is worth it. So that no abuses would occur if someone subsequently sought citizenship just for this, we know about this story, and there were stories in this house a few weeks ago, a few months ago, about the amendments and the addition of the Law on Citizenship. Of course, only those who want to get our citizenship if they meet the conditions are welcome, but if they do and do not have our citizenship on June 30, 2007, a few months ago, they will not be able to achieve these rights. In this way we avoid the possibility of any abuse. At the same time, we ask that they have residence on the territory of Serbia on 30 June 2007, i.e. have the status of a temporarily displaced person from Kosovo and Metohija. Fourth, that they did not exercise the right to free action under the previous regulations. In this way we make it clear that this law is open to those who have not yet participated in the privatisation programme and have finally entered into the register of rightholders in accordance with this law. It is clear that the entry of nearly four million citizens within six months, which would be the shortest deadline, is in itself a logistics venture. Therefore, the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, will propose a mechanism, but it is certain that we will do so through mail, because they have the largest network in our territory, we will establish a system of recording that will not be too complicated or too hard. There will be, of course, specific conditions for those who are not mobile. Of course, if someone is sick, if someone is not there at a given time in that period, for objective reasons, and meets the conditions to sign in, of course, our government will provide the conditions that they too can exercise their own rights. That's, like, four million citizens. Of course, in this law we also have specific provisions concerning employees and former employees of companies subject to this law and who, of course, meet the above mentioned conditions. Our assessment is that in this way around 150,000 employees and former employees in public enterprises will exercise significant rights. Our assessment is, and that is what is proposed in this law, that our citizens on average achieve a minimum value of a thousand euros, and that employees and former employees of public enterprises achieve one significant value, which is estimated here at around four thousand euros per person. That seems to be the right measure of justice. We've heard all sorts of suggestions from different unions. We think it is fair for employees and former employees to exercise a greater right, but we think and hope that we will get your support in this domain, that it is not fair, that it was also said during the previous budget debate, that those who have already significantly better salaries, more stable jobs, and at the same time when it was most difficult in this country, at the same time to win through this process that would be 20, 40 and 50 times the size of our country's citizens. That is why this proposal has led to a heated but sincere social dialogue. I must tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today, with further consultations with the social partners, adopted at a session that ended around 15 hours of the government's amendment to this law. Since it's a newspaper, I'd like to explain it here a little more precisely. In a proposal submitted to the National Assembly, employees and former employees were scheduled to decide by 30 June of next year whether they wanted, individually in each company, through a referendum, a majority one, to exercise the right to action, 200 euros per year of employment at the estimated market value of the company prior to privatisation, or prefer, and these are some of the provisions in this law, to achieve approximately, as I said earlier, four thousand euros in cash as soon as the privatisation process begins or during the privatisation process. Through further consultations with representative trade unions, it has been decided, and that is the meaning of these amendments, because there are eight of them, at the request of the social partners, that the possibility for the bonus and that cash compensation is deleted, for the reasons the representative trade unions have said that this leads to complications. After further consultations with employees and former employees, they too want to have the right to action. It seems good to us, because in this way there is no difference between Serbian citizens and employees in public enterprises, in terms of the method based on which they exercise their rights. In terms of the amount, there are differences that I've talked about, but this way we think we're going to have the same and more effective approach and that's why the government has agreed, and that's why there's going to be an amendment that allows it. An additional amendment, which is very important and I want to tell you, which is the same in the amendments the government has adopted today and sent to this home, that is - to allow employees who may have had some rights in a social enterprise, to achieve and rights, if they have spent an additional number of years in public enterprises, on these actions. Translated in Serbian, if an EPS employee worked for five years in a single company and possibly had certain rights to actions in the company, but then hired in EPS, NIS, Telekom, one of the six companies mentioned here - the person will have the same rights to actions under the conditions set out in this law. In this way, it seems to me that the right of dialogue with employees and former employees in public enterprises has been found, and the government has shown this way that it is open to dialogue, and that it also wants to defend the general interest and that it will not tolerate that one group, however talented, and that employees and former employees in public enterprises are certainly in that category in the vast majority, will not allow such a difference to be tolerated that they achieve values that are 20, 40 or 50 greater than what other companies have. How is this procedure conducted? The agency, as I said, will carry out the recording procedure in 2008. The first estimate is that it will do so from January 1st next year until the end of June next year and significant resources will be hired, a major approach campaign and all benefits for those who meet these conditions to get to that record. It's very important for people to register. This procedure is not mandatory, but it is also very important and therefore we have this condition of enrollment on the voter's list. In this way, citizens are identified as active members of our society and for voting, participation in political life, and also through the exercise of the right to free action, as active participants of economic, social and technological changes in our society. At the same time, I want to give a warning, which is that we have been preparing this law to run those ugly experiences that some countries have had in transition with these programs, although, as I said, they have never offered such a valuable enterprise. I have a message for all four million citizens, and that is -- from the moment you register by law, you must not have these actions, nor the right to those actions, nor the right to present those actions, any traffic of those rights and actions is illegal. Why are we doing this? For the reason that experience has shown that it is in less regulated systems, which is not Serbia and we prove it to these provisions of the law, there was a risk of reaching a concentration beyond the property market, that a number of intermediaries, brokers, lawyers, various people, come to citizens and say -- come on, sell me your actions or come sell me your rights to action, today I will pay you a certain amount, that's enough for you, but at the moment of the action, then you'll see that they've made one big profit. Dear citizens of Serbia, it is not in your interest and therefore the Serbian government offers an optimal solution in this law, which is that trade in these actions begins, and only begins, legally six months after the actions of these companies on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. In this way you and our entire public will be able to see what the real value of these actions is. We'll have a transparent way of trading, we'll have all the institutions in place, and you'll have the right to have absolutely free access to your actions. But before that wouldn't be in your interest, it wouldn't be in Serbia's interest, it wouldn't be in the interest of public enterprises, and that's why this law forbids it. In this way, I am convinced, we will also avoid this ugly byproduct that happened in some other processes of this type, and therefore from the very beginning I want to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the state authorities will be extremely closely monitoring and severely punishing any phenomena that would be against the laws, attempts at any rights or actions that our citizens will have. That way no one will be deceived. That is why I can say that, of course, it does not mean that citizens will not exercise their rights, on the contrary, the registration of these actions will be completed, as far as the company I mentioned is concerned, by the end of 2010. So much for whoever has the right. Something very important, it's that at this point of free action will really be free. This law also fully regulates tax treatment and costs that can be born around the first trade in these actions. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that these actions be free of charge. By doing so, they will not be taxed, therefore they will not be charged any tax on capital gains for citizens who receive these shares. And not only that, the government of the Republic of Serbia will take over the budget, so it will pay through this programme all the costs of brokers that eventually appear in this, until the first market transaction. By doing so, free action will really be free action for our citizens. As for employees, given that they exercise rights that work not on something that will be seen on the market, but at the estimated market value before privatisation, they will have the same tax treatment as all other employees in the privatisation process so far. So much for the first aspect and probably the most important for our citizens, which is who and how they will achieve rights and profit from this programme. However, I would like to say, Mr. President, honourable MPs, a few words about these remaining two processes that are very important. Another process that will enable this law is to speed up restructuring and increase the efficiency of one key segment of our economy, and it is public enterprises. Of course, some progress has been made in recent years. All public enterprises are doing better than they did in previous years. Of course, it comes through a number of difficult decisions, but in all, it allowed public enterprises to stand on their feet. I remember 2001 and 2002 when after years, i.e. For decades, no investment was made, and it was uncertain whether there would be enough electricity. Fortunately, those questions are behind us now. Does that mean everything's perfect in public enterprises? Far from it. That is why one big chance opened by this law is to arm the restructuring and to feel the need in public enterprises even more than before there is a necessary change, not only because of these public enterprises themselves, but because they have a chain effect on both our citizens and the rest of our economy. I'll give you some concrete examples. Exchange date, i.e. A strategic partnership, which is a prerequisite for these actions to appear on the capital market, six months later, there was a trade on citizens exercising rights through the process. This will mean that these companies will have to prepare not only financial reports according to international standards, but that they will have to, like all other companies in the Belgrade Stock Exchange, reach the level of corporate governance, transparency in business, which will enable all our citizens, all our taxpayers are confident to have in the right way those resources at their disposal. By the way, here's a great chance that our public enterprises will come up with additional funds to reach a strategic partner. I would like to say that this law does not predetermin the form in which these processes will take place in companies, but it will be the subject of another debate in this House concerning strategies, restructuring and privatisation of public enterprises, and for those greater than them, important, such as NIS and others, of course, it will be necessary to bring appropriate legal regulations in this House. So, honourable MPs, this law does not mean that we will, as the people say, sell the public sector. I've expressed myself many times in this home on this issue. There is an optimum, an optimum for Serbia, the best thing for Serbia is that nothing is done, but surely the best thing for Serbia is not to sell everything. The best for Serbia depends on a particular company, in concrete cases it is not the same situation as the JAT Airways situation in our EPS. These are two separate issues and therefore each of these companies will have a specific treatment, with which of course this prized home will be familiar. Thus, this second process, the process of improving the functioning of our public sector, these three years that are coming will be a moment when, like what has done a good part of our economy with much improved performance, we see it through economic growth of 7% this year and we see in the last three years that if we take the final accounts for 2006, for example, we see that those companies that are privatised have significantly improved productivity, they have profits and those who are employed in these companies have stable salaries that are growing. In addition, this second process is something that will complete the reform of this key segment of our public business economy. The third and last process I want to mention is the process of developing a capital market that will open up the application of such a law. Serbia has everything to become the economic and financial center of this part of Europe. This law will be the mechanism in which our Belgrade Stock Exchange will be the centre of all events in Southeast Europe, the centre of attention for all those who want to deal with this business in ways that will enable not only attract funds to these businesses, but also the arrival of these shares, these actions and these companies on the market will give stability to our stock market, much greater capitalisation. With the current 17 billion euros, it will grow significantly, we will have an activity effect on other markets, and I expect it to come through this process and further togethering, where Belgrade will be the center of events itself, which I am deeply confident of, and will also enable other businesses, through investors who will be attracted to this process, to come up with the necessary funds. In this way, we will allow our entire economic system to come up with the necessary resources and necessary investors, and this way at $ 4.7 billion, as much as our country drew investment last year, estimated $3 billion, as it will attract this year, this law will also provide all the preconditions that our country continues to attract $3 to $5 billion every year. There are estimates according to which this amount will be even bigger, but surely with this law we will provide all the preconditions for our country to be the centre of economic, financial developments in the Balkans. Does this mean the end of the privatisation and property change process? No, I don't. There's one link left, it's a law on denationalization. I want to tell you that the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia has prepared a draft. He is already in public debate and we expect that in a regular session of the esteemed home next year, he will be on the agenda, and in a record period of seven-eight years we will be able to round up what lasted 15 to 20 years in other transition countries. Mr. President, honourable MPs, you have two very important draft laws ahead of you. I hope, in the interest of all our citizens, of all our employees, of all who were unable to realise their rights through the privatisation process, unanimously, I hope, to support these changes. I can't imagine the reasons why they could bring a particular political party to shut the door to our citizens' actions in the years to come. That's why I hope we have a consensus on these laws. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14043	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras, then MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14044	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I have reported in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I need an explanation that I could do my parliamentary work in the future, that you would answer me, Mr. Vice President, whether there is a government, whether there is a ruling coalition, whether there is a majority in this assembly, because you failed the promise you made two days ago, and you and the president of the assembly, that you would be here all the time, and when the budget was discussed, you did not have time to hear today from the head of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr. Aligrudic. They didn't speak softly of you from the DS, they said that you had stepped down the coalition agreement and, worse still, they said that you had broken the Constitutional Law by questioning the election for the president. We look forward to these choices, but I repeat what they said. It came from your ranks to that silence. I'm asking you to tell us if the government is working. According to information we have, that there was a nirvana today, no ugly word was said, no sign of any conflict. That is why it is important for Serbian citizens to know that this is all theater. Citizens, what has been happening in the past 24 hours is a theater and an attempt to play the conflict, namely to show that there is a conflict between DS and DSS. If there is that conflict, friends from the DS, then leave that government, leave Kostunica. We look forward to the presidential elections, because the presidential elections are indeed a chance to win Kostunica once and for all and win this incompetent government. What is the consequence of these presidential elections? The result is the election calling at all levels, means republican elections, parliamentary new ones, and provinces, and local ones. I really expect you to have an answer that would allow us as MPs so we can work on it. The budget debate has been speeded up. Look at how many MPs have signed up to discuss these two, as you say, important laws. Every law is important to us. It's all done to make this go along with some accelerated rhythm. One more thing that interests me, and I would ask that someone from the DSS tell me, and you, Mr. Djelic, can say more than once the word Kosovo than Kostunica. Well, it wasn't you, Mr. Djelic, you were an DS candidate for prime minister, you can chat with your associate, but that's true, you were an DS candidate for prime minister to bring Serbia closer to Europe. You do nothing about it, deceive the public, and you have repeatedly spoken the word Kosovo. Which is why the ruling majority didn't schedule a session to talk about Kosovo before 19th, before the Security Council, but we'll discuss 22 when your prime minister and your president blow up the whole story, and then they'll be here in the Assembly, and we MPs should be getting out of the chestnut fire, as the people say. I expect you to answer some questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14045	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word according to the Rules of Procedure has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the citizens of Serbia, that the Deputy Prime Minister, his Duchy of Bozidar Djelic, gave this speech in the stands, at some pre-election rally, and that behind his back it reads "fairly", because it was a parole of its own time, or to write "people, we have only one life" and it was a steam, I would like to hear this story. Mr. Djelic, the campaign has begun, but the campaign is being held on the street. This is where the laws are passed. The Serbian Radical Party MP club has prepared a large number of amendments, and we will discuss the laws and amendments later, but don't fool the citizens of Serbia into giving them something. To convince what Mr Bozidar Djelic said -- we'll give you 1,000 euros, which you won't get, and then you won't be able to use them for the next six months, and those who work in public enterprises will get 4,000 euros or 200 euros a year, which they won't get, and they won't be able to do it until after six months, because the stock exchanges will, meanwhile, will be able to get on the market, and in the meantime you, too, will be able to have 11m euros. Mr Djelic made a capital of 11m euros without a dinar for two years, using shares, though, there was no NIS, the EPS, was Meridian Bank. Since Meridian Bank is weaker financially than NIS and EPS, because years since the war, Serbian citizens invest in these enterprises, the value of the actions you will get, but you will not get them, will be far greater and much faster, all Serbian citizens, will reach 11m euros. Then we'll all be millionaires and live like a fairy tale. Mr. Djelic, there's something you can lie about at the coffee table, but don't lie to Serbian citizens and don't start a pre-election campaign from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14047	Authorised representative of the SRS, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't help but get the impression that I was now listening to Bozidar Djelic, in a people known as God's dericot, the Duke of Meridian, as if back in 2001, and I can't help but think that the current Deputy Prime Minister has evolved a little bit, or has improved a little bit, and when it comes to talking, and when it comes to basic culture, he doesn't jump over tables anymore, but he basically remains the same. So when Bozidar Djelic and Aleksandar Vlahovic say the word restructuring, I know that several thousand people will be out of work. That's since he's been talking since 2001 how many Serbian citizens have lost their jobs in the privatisation process. And, look at the wonders, there is now a former finance minister, the current vice president in the government, who promises to give the citizens something, as if what he's giving hadn't formed generations and that it's in a certain way the public good that belongs to all citizens, Mr. Vice President of the Government. I wish that when it comes to Bozidar Djelic, he would not take the SRS in his mouth, at least in what the SRS is saying. I was an MP when the privatisation law was passed, and no one told the SRS that the privatisation law was good. He also said the president of the SRS, and the other MPs, 22 of us, that the law is better than the previous one, but that it is far from being good. If we were right about how many people were out of work, how many abuses in the privatisation process and how often vital collectives, vital economic operators were sold into debauchery because of the lack of the privatisation law itself. I will give just one example, Mr. Djelic, which is an example of the purchase of the tourism and catering company "Avala" from Požerevac, now something is doing UBPOK seems to me around them, some have already been arrested, where three or four people bought a whole company that had no commitment to creditors, had no obligation to banks, had no obligation to funds, bought 200 thousand marks, and only a few months after that sold a single place of the company for 200 thousand euros. They've returned the full investment, and they've only earned more in one place. So much for one case of abuse. There is more, especially when we look at the law on this particular privatisation and compare it to this law on free share shares. I ask one question: why does the Prime Minister, or Vice-President of the Government, have such an ex-post mind that he now foresees a protection mechanism for citizens who need to get free action? I'm saying great, but I can't help but get the impression of what you were doing earlier as finance minister. I can't help but think why you didn't protect citizens who had old foreign currency savings and who received bonds from the Republic of Serbia. Who traded those bonds? It's a national conservatory. Who made the money? Miodrag Kostic, MK Komertz. Do you know that name, Mr. Vice Prime Minister? I wonder what's wrong with that man, is he going to be in some free share action now? Will he now benefit from the illegal property? Was that the one who bought three sugars for three euros each, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? I think it's him. So much for how good your Privatisation Act was and what you did when you were Minister of Finance. Let's see what it looks like through these new legal proposals. First, this law you wrote is a simple pre-election law. I'd like most of what's written in the law to really happen, but to benefit the citizens you owe these bonds and actions, not individuals who will be worth profiting on the paper market. You give in certain provisions of the law that I have the right to doubt you when it comes to it, because I have such experience with you, Mr. Vice President. You said, when it comes to the Privatisation Act, that persons under investigation participate in the privatisation process. I'll ask you a question: what about Dr. Novi Sad? I don't mind, except in one part -- who are legally accused, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because if you have 11m euros in savings, and you came here without a dinar, I can write you a criminal report, and you're grounded, and you're under investigation. Then you can't participate in the privatisation process. When you have a criminal charge, then you can set up a restraining order. What happened to DDOR Novi Sad and how could the person who participated in the cigarette trade with the Montenegrin mafia and the traitor regime of Milo Djukanovic buy Serbian property? So much for how much better this government is than the first one. In Article 12. You say the bill on free share of shares - the price of action at which the Share Fund can not be less than the price per share paid by the buyer of capital in the privatisation process. When someone reads it, they'd say it's fine, and it's not. Some economic operators were privatized four or five years ago. How much inflation was there? How much has that capital of the initial sale price gone bad so far, Mr. Vice-President of the Government? What's your hurry? Why didn't you write - increased for the cost of living, for the inflation index, however you like, but to put that 2002 and the 2008 dinar on the same level, I can't. Then one German mark cost 20 dinars and one euro 40. Where are they now? It's not gonna happen, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. In Article 23 of the Law, i.e. in a member where the initial price of capital is estimated, the second point of the first position is said - the right to transfer the company's 200-euro stakes per full year of employment in the company calculated according to the estimated market value of the company's total capital before the privatization carried out in the dinar equivalent rate of the National Bank, etc. Mr. Vice President, by what method will you determine the starting price, or estimated value of a company's capital? Is that what this law says? The value is formed on a number of basiss – active, passive, how depreciation will be done, how revaluation will be done. Can you mathematically and accountingly give two different estimates about the same legal person? It's possible. Is it possible to be legal? It is possible, so there, when it comes to the Accounting and Audit Act, you have determined that the minister prescribes and determines what process of depreciation and revaluation will be. Why doesn't the government do it here? Who'd you leave that to? The agency? How does the Agency do that? Just like she did with Sartide. What is the estimated value of Sartide? It says – 26 million dollars, minus some costs – 21 million. But the one who evaluated Sartide has been fenced from not having the right data. What did you do? For 21 million dollars they wrote off all the debts to Sartida, accepted that the state would pay those commitments to foreign banks, kill our banks and sell US STEEL – something worth half a million at least. In this, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you participated in the same thing with your party friend, with your party colleague, Aleksandra Vlahovic. There we can get to this group – Janjušević, Kolesar etc. Maybe you wanted to write a law, which can basically serve you only for the election campaign that's right here at the door. But for everything you've done, what you've seen in this bill, you've left yourself the opportunity to do it again, and you can see it from art. Article 29(2), where the Government can determine and lay provisions beyond this law, and Article 31 does not apply the law at all. Who's gonna put the money in their pocket? Probably the same team as the government of Zoran Djindjic. And you're on that team.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14049	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14050	Mr. Djudjevic, you are not the reason for the announcement, because you and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic are very good at running these sessions. The reason for this report is in Articles 104 and 136. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I find it offensive for the National Assembly that these two laws represent Bozidar Djelic. I believe that they have failed to fulfil the obligation of Article 136, they have not given adequate explanations for these two draft laws. I'll show you that on a few examples. The government acts, when it comes to Djelic and any government where he sits, according to the system -- full of people who don't believe in hunger. What's this about? As I recall, in 2001, when this gentleman came here, he had no dog to bite him for. He didn't even have a bed, and after a few years we found out – 11 million. He says he was worth it, he was hardworking, and he was successful. And Mr. Batic was with you in that government, and he was valuable, successful, and they robbed his car, and they took his heclare, and there was a lot of things, so I haven't heard that he has 11m euros yet. It is easy for you, Vojislav Kostunica and others to sell out what you did not participate in, you did not give up, you had no obligation to this state and to this economy. Since you have no obligation, you've never regretted your hands with some work, you don't have a sense of value, you just have a sense of some illusions and a touch of the system. I'm taking the opportunity to test out Mr. Djelic. Mr. Djelic, in your time he went bankrupt over "Yugoexport". I'll give you complete documentation. Come out and tell us what's going on with Jugoexport, who's going to steal it. I'll give you the paperwork, you've got everything here. They sent them to you and to the Kostunicas. There is also a declaration by the Democratic Party of Serbia when they called for a strike, supporting the strike of these workers. So you're very professionally mastering this subject and in terms of value, and in terms of the area of the locals, business space, capital and answer who threw the eye? Here you have a list of bankruptcy managers, all those guys who've been messing around, who's been pulling it, who's been taking it. All of you give us a nice answer. Just answer one more question. This morning I read in the newspaper, he says – someone there sang, and some robbed his apartment. I'm absolutely sure it's all within the same family. As the father-in-law sang, the son-in-law arranged the robbery of the apartment. That's funny to you. You paid him off so he wouldn't be a civil servant, he was a civil servant again. You gave him a 40-dollar severance fee. Mr. Djelic, you were able in 2001 and 2002 with this colorful story of yours to go public, and in 2007, you can't pass that story; in 2007, that story can't pass! Look at the insolence of the government, Djelic explains these laws. It's an insult to the National Assembly, an insult to the citizens. Enough to believe in the hungry. Come on, don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14051	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I think Mr. Krasic mentioned me in the wrong context anyway. First of all, I'm one of the few people on the political scene who's got a lot of politics. Some of them didn't even have a dog to bite at when they started doing politics, and then some of them, after a few years, remembered they had, but I don't want to do it. The story of hackers, too, has nothing to do with me. The fact is that the cops who followed me once had a car robbed, some weapons were taken, found, returned, etc. I don't even have bodyguards, I don't have anything, it doesn't matter, but that's why I feel like I can sleep peacefully and peacefully. What I have reported for the word is the following – I continue to argue that it is completely pointless to hold a session of parliament in the new circumstances, when we no longer know whether there is a ruling coalition. It exists on paper, but it doesn't exist in fact. We have seen today's interpretations of Parliament's president, that a respected coalition agreement, that conditions have been met and that, in accordance with the constitutional law, elections have been called. Also, we saw a second view, that there was no respected coalition agreement, that there were no conditions and that it was anti-constitutional. We see quite an over-emphasis of calling the President of Parliament to the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that his option has a majority in the Constitutional Court, since otherwise we said it was a party court. So a party or a group of parties has a majority in the Constitutional Court. However, there is another problem I mentioned today. Elections started from the moment of election. Until this moment, the Constitutional Court has not been established. There's already a problem. There's a matter for a serious constitutional court. I'm afraid we won't get to these points of the agenda, because it's quite certain that if not today and tomorrow, right after the 19th session of the Security Council, there will be an election campaign. Then about laws, especially these laws that are colorful lies, sweet fraud, smoke curtains and fog will not be said. Then the question is who's going to share the spoils of these pre-election laws. Let's see first who will be President of Parliament, whether the government will be held, whether the government will be reconstructed, and then proceed with legislative action. I said this morning, in that campaign, you can share the Tron Rose and Baron Minhausen, and the drones and the drones and the valleys. (President: I thank you, colleague Batic. We heard the attitude. What I would say to Mr. Krasic in the end, it's not a problem how much money anyone has, the problem is if you let down those who created you, because you can't be at the same time in the government of William Brant and the one who was before William Brant.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14053	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14054	Replica to Mr. Batic. Mr. Batic, I've just made the facts known. He didn't have a dog to bite him for, you got a car run over. You know the facts in general. The other thing where you've caught me by the heart, this must be public knowledge, you've made an extremely beautiful parallel with an ideological set of some personalities. I'm not getting into this right now, with Kostunica, without Kostunica, we love each other, we don't love each other, we take-gives. There's some interest. But I know Djelic's prehistory before 2001. Mr. Batic, I'm presenting the general facts again. As Panic comes to us, Djelic comes to us. As I recall, something must not exactly be moving abroad, towards that eastern block. And there he participated in some privatisations, not Panic but Djelic. Who pushed it to you in 2001? You've seen him, there's been no politics for three years at all. He reported as chairman of the board of directors, appeared on behalf of the Council of Foreign Investors, discussed the elections, immediately on the DS list. The force that drives him so that even the Democrats can't get rid of him. See what's going on? He's an alien, a stranger, where he comes from. When he comes, something has to be cut down here with us. Something has to happen. I guess we're stronger for one experience, huh? I agree, in 2001, it was a nice attraction, small, black, with white collars, so beautiful, so juicy, so cute, so unmarried, so this, so this, so it's a nice story, and then it's a nice sketch like Mile jerk and all that was interesting to people. But as soon as it's been a year or two, they see what's going on. Wherever he's gone, it's all settled. That ideology you talked about in another context is about money and political power, with money and no money. He has abused political power, acquired wealth and is now holding on to preserve his wealth. To him, politics is a means of preserving wealth. That's why I said -- full of people don't believe in hungry. It is an insult when Djelic explains these laws to us. He's talking about four million citizens getting something small tomorrow. That's offensive. Let's respect the dignity of this building. Someone sent us here to worry about the interests of citizens, not about the interests of people like this. For the personal interests of these people, the Council of Investors of this bank, let him there until Jocic arrests him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14055	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14056	Mr. Krasic, I don't want to do Mr. Djelic's character and work. I said when the parliamentary issues were on the agenda, Mr Djelic disappointed me at the moment when Mr Djelic told reporters that he was Serbia's first true democratic prime minister, and his government was the first majority democratic European government on August 30th. I think the man who was created by Zoran Djindjic when he said that, he speaks enough about himself and I would no longer deal with the character and part of Mr Djelic, I fear that if the ruling coalition falls apart, that his character and part of him will be dealt with by some other institution. But that's not my concern again, and it's not my problem. Here the problem is what's on the agenda, which is the privatisations that are with this and the previous government of affairs and crime. It has been polluted about the former privatisations, the promised re-examinations, the constant mention of Sartide. I really don't know the details about it, because even though I was a member of the government, I didn't do it. But whoever questioned the privatisations of the government of Zoran Djindjic and the government of Zoran Zivkovic, the current prime minister, went to the same Sartid to let the high furnace work and thus confirmed that the privatisation is probably fine, but let those things be dealt with by the competent authorities, if there are any abuses. It will take this debate, and we will present a series of details of thefts, affairs and abuses related to privatisations at the time of the previous government and during this last government. The last of them is Water Water, which includes some of the ministers in this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14057	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14058	Member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. Mr. Judjevic, I'd like to ask you to take a look and take a look at these two bill proposals, which are connected to a joint debate, because I'm going to quote some of the things that are listed here. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, a sentence reads - as the government's representative in the National Assembly, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development was designated. He's gone. The second law, that's the one where Serbia's citizens honor. The government's representative in the National Assembly has been appointed Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Dr Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Trade and Services. Please explain to me - are they defined here alternatively or cumulatively? If they are defined alternatively, it can be one to be present, so it is treated to be met by a condition. If certain are cumulative, then all three must be here. One's from DS, one's from G17 plus, one's from the DSS. Look at the mistrust. One must not represent this law on the distribution of free shares to citizens, but must be attended by all representatives of the coalition government in order to divide 33.3% of all the benefits they give to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So please, if this is cumulative, let all three of them be present here, because I get the impression that there will be a difference in the interpretation of this law between Mr. Bubal, between Mr. Dinkic and Mr. Djelic. Although I would recommend that Djelic be on this side, Dinkic from this side and Bubalo, because if the two of them were together, then we would have to call security, because this speaker would be busy explaining who made more contributions, who is better, and I think that for the citizens of Serbia, it would be a much more interesting topic of who is richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14059	National MP Zdravko Topalovic, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14060	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Djelic is not in the O.R., I'm so sorry. Based on his earlier nickname, which he liked, according to Disney's hero Mickey Mouse, today's story is from Disneyland. You heard, Serbian citizens will receive 1,000 euros each, everyone will be happy and satisfied, and privatisation will finally be implemented properly. I can't believe it, because in these areas, transitions got a real synonym-- theft, and it's a heavy theft. Mr Djelic, in an analysis, that is, a group of ministers, a group of authors, according to my esteemed colleague Krasic, gave some explanation of the effect of this law, and said, "The adoption of the law on privatisation allows privatisation of social and state capital, the inflow of foreign capital, the creation of an effective economic environment" and the rest. The real point of the story is that there's a big, unrecorded theft of world proportions, it's privatization of public enterprises and the remaining state and social capital. Normally, it's all coming to an election campaign for a joint DS candidate for president, and it's up to the people to tell a story like this from Disneyland. I see that this law has not improved that only 49% of the capital is privatized, not 70%, which you stand for and question that privatisation is carried out by one of the tycoon-friendly authorities. You've been trying to make this law as difficult as you can to disable competition. In particular, you stated in Article 3 who cannot participate in privatisation. You mentioned a person who was convicted or prosecuted for the following crimes, we agree: robbery, murder, unauthorized production, holding and placing on the trafficking of intoxicating drugs, all of it; but, for example, here. A criminal association. I have repeatedly followed this speaker, you have had the opportunity to hear you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dinkic, Cvetkovic, Milosavljevic, the Bugal accused you of criminally joining up against Serbia's financial and economic system, but it is still an accusation of this speaker. That's what this bill says: criminal association. Without some judicial decision, it's enough to charge someone from the competition, initiate criminal charges before the auction or the public tender itself, the procedure takes place and excludes him from the privatisation process. What does unauthorized practice mean? You know very well what kind of environment Serbia was in when it took place and worked in the '90s, in sanctions. A larger number of legal persons normally worked on the edge of a gray economy, so that they could secure any earnings for their workers, so that these workers would not leave the street. When dealing with unauthorized activity, you literally open up the possibility of not even giving someone who was selling a multilevel or Avon cosmetics. Very inaccurate and very indeterminate. Let's get back to this criminal association. I mentioned you. Normally, I can't exclude you from the privatisation process, and it's accusing us. Believe me, one day, when the SRS is in power, you will certainly be prosecuted, you will be responsible for this criminal association and you will get the right punishment, because then the minister will be, normally, the Serbian radical, the minister of justice, the judiciary will not be burdened with corruption and you will have time to write memoirs in peace of mind and how you managed to destroy the financial system of this state. As for Article 2, you give too much authority to the Privatisation Agency. Literally, the entire privatisation process is now being conducted by the Agency. How will she be controlled? By the Director of the Agency. He'll be responsible, he'll be in control. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. Great. You're even predicting that he's the liquidator. Wonderful. You'll all be in one place, and it'll be easier for us to determine the responsibility of the people who'll do this kind of dishonest work. In Article 4, you say that privatisation should be carried out by 31 December 2008 at the latest, and you have provided for ''if social capital, i.e. the property of the privatisation entity has not been sold after the third public tender or the privatisation entity has not submitted an annual financial report to the Agency responsible for keeping the register of business entities two years consecutively''. Please, two years in a row? Then what does the financial police, the NBS, the IRS do? So they're not doing anything. What we talked about yesterday about the budget, it reacts very highly, it does not carry out adequate criminal provisions and yet to exclude someone and refer them under liquidation procedure because he has not submitted the documentation for two years. I really don't understand. I'd like to hear it explained to me whether it was a delay in the tax administration, although we did have some amazing examples here. While Dinkic was finance minister, he even treated the tax debt of Luttria Serbia as the capitalisation of the state lottery. Unbelievable. I've got that solution, so I'll copy it for you and I'll get it for you. It is ideal for prison after the successful performance of its ministerial post. The amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act are bad, normal, for your purposes, primarily media promotion, you and mentioned ministers, full of uncertainty, and the practice is quite different from that story you gave us, that is, from that Disneyland story. The SRS is not involved in the work of the Assembly Privatisation Committee for principled reasons. We have to mention that for the public. The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Novakovic, is from the same party as Resolute Minister Dinkic. We do not want to give a quorum and participate in the vote when the president of the Committee performs the joint tasks of Minister Dinkic and thus prevents some Committee interventions in the established number of irregularities in the process of privatising social and state capital. This is Mr. Novakovic's second term. He seems to have imagined that Comrade Tito was on the board and that it would be for life, until the privatisation is complete. You see how G 17 gentlemen, with the help of Mr Djelic and other ministers, conduct this privatisation "transparently", not giving the opposition any involvement in the decision, and you know that all privatisations in Serbia that have been carried out so far have a number of violent reactions both public and employees, and that, we must say, is justified. The workers of Posavina were present outside the assembly door today, waiting for Mr Dinkic to appear in the air. They were probably disappointed. I'm sorry they gave up their intentions earlier, so they went home, didn't welcome Mr. Djelic, they had a lot to ask him. The SRS did not seek the position of president on this committee, but rather that the resolution minister and chairman of the assembly committee are not from the same political party. We, Serbian radicals, closely monitor everything that happens with privatisation in Serbia, promise that by coming to power all those ministers from DOS governments who have broken down our economic and financial system we will process, as we have spoken and allow them to write memoirs from prison cells. You've appointed directors of public enterprises, so the Serbian government, I'm finishing up, according to the division of prey, i.e. Privatisation plan. So, at the head of the EPS, someone from the DSS, head of the NIS DS. The "Nikola Tesla" airport is an extremely interesting story, led by the airport by famous Mr. Bojan Kristo, who participated in the financial collapse of the lottery system in Serbia. You saw that Luttria Serbia, i.e. Lucky games filled with budgets with only three billion dinars. Who's responsible for this? The SRS advocates that Serbian citizens receive more than 1,000 euros in shares, but that the state then does not launch any speculative actions through the stock market, prices of these stocks, buy them at worthless and meaningless amounts, and an example in the environment, as you praise the environment so much, is an example of Telekom Hrvatska. It is therefore very unfair to talk about the 1,000-euro free actions of public enterprises directors and people from the government who are receiving in these public enterprises on the basis of boards and directors' posts of between five and 7,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14061	Thank you. The word is by MP Slobodan Maras, the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, followed by MP Milisav Petronijevic, the authorised representative of the SPS, and Mr Vujadinovic in front of the DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14062	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, before I begin, I would refer to one of the previous questions, which is where the two other ministers who are scheduled to sit here and answer certain questions, or to explain to us some things that may not be clear to us. The predecessor who mentioned them, I think he made a mistake. There is no reason why Mr. Bubalo and Mr. Dinkic would not want to sit with the vice president and that there is some conflict. I must repeat, this conflict is fixed, it's just a play and a theatre, and we all know that the two ministers and vice-presidents of the government are happy to have a place to visit together, which is the company "Delta", or Mr. Miskovic, whether "Delta Siti", whether "Gala Water" is opening, whether Mr. Miskovic's defence from the Anti-Corruption Council. We have submitted amendments to these two laws as a parliamentary group of LDPs and on the fate of these amendments, or whether the amendment's proposal will be accepted will depend on whether we vote for these two draft laws or not. Our key objection concerns the position of the 3rd Article of the Law on the distribution of free shares. It refers to the fact that, in our view, this all looks like one pre-election law, one voter pass, especially those who are 18 years old. It's completely incomprehensible to us, I'd like you to explain to us, Mr. Vice President, that those who turned 18 and those who spent 35 years doing business and creating in this country get the same amount. In our view, it would be much more acceptable for everyone to start with the same base, to get the same base, and to increase the amount that each citizen will receive depending on the years of the internship. You mentioned the stock market earlier and that the stock market will regulate certain relations when these actions are divided, i.e. that we can have full confidence in the stock market. I have to remind you that they're all so-called. Foreigners from the stock market escaped and retreated from the stock market. There's a small number left. You know very well what the reason is: one of the great mistrusts that governs the political climate in this country, and one of the generators of that political climate, or the biggest generator is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by President Kostunica and you as Deputy Prime Minister. What happens when you get 1,000-euro shares? Mr Djelic mentioned earlier, if I understand correctly, Mr Djelic, you will correct me, that six months will not be able to alienate and transfer those actions. Did I get it right? Longer, okay. Whatever the period, I understand it's six months, but the vice president says it's longer, to trust him. We will come to the next situation: the majority of citizens who will get these actions really live on one edge of existence and we all know how poor society we are. Anyone who gets a conditional value of 1,000 euros, we're sure, at the moment he can alienate them, will try to sell them as soon as possible and allow himself as easy as possible in some period. Then what happens? Who's gonna show up as a buyer? As a buyer, he'll show up, so-called. tycoons and, of course, the first among them. I'm really interested in you, Mr. Djelic, whether someday, when Mr. Miskovic becomes owner of Telekom Sr., you'll go to some ceremony, some opening and that occasion. Also, what's very worrying to us. You said all those in conflict with the law wouldn't be able to participate in the privatisation. What about those who are prosecuted by the law, which the MUP, or Mr Jocic, does not process in any way and which even the courts must not call as witnesses, and even when they are damaged? In no way shall they appear before the court, or anyone shall call them. What do we do with them? They will be able to participate in privatisation. I fear there is no mechanism to protect citizens who will receive these actions, to protect ourselves from abuse, or to protect ourselves from buying all these actions in the tycoons and becoming owners of not only half of Serbia, but also of the whole of Serbia, means that what remains in state ownership finally comes into the hands of the tycoon. Who will follow to avoid abuse, Mr. Djelic? You've tried to destroy every control organ. You're the first to threaten the Anti-Corruption Council to be shut down. Afterwards, of course after you received from the people in charge of marketing in your party, you better arrange a meeting with Mrs. Verica Barać and, of course, the epilogue of that meeting is known to us all. The budget for the 2008 Anti-Corruption Council has been reduced. Citizens need to know that. There was an attempt by Minister Cvetkovic to deceive the public and to say that the Anti-Corruption Council asked for smaller funds; that is not true. Mrs. Verica Baraq denied it. They were looking for more funds. But the government, which holds Mr Djelic, as vice president, has cut funds in the 2008 budget of the Anti-Corruption Council. Another body that should control how budgets are spent is the State Audit Institution. Number one, yesterday we realized that they were located as tenants in this building, that is, their advice. Two, which is much more significant, have also reduced the funds they sought in the 2008 budget. Mr. Djelic, wherever there is to be control, as budgets are spent, whether there is corruption in this country, and also when there is a division of these actions, you will do everything, the government of Vojislav Kostunica and your government, everything will do to prevent this control and to know which way we come into the situation for the citizens to be played and the laws to be implemented. Once again, I ask you to read all the amendments well, not only those submitted by the LDP, but how many amendments I have seen have been submitted by colleagues from those parliamentary groups whose ministers should defend these two laws. All right, then, once again, study all the amendments, fix some of these laws, and you'll have LDP support, of course, when it comes to these laws. For everything else you do, you don't have support or LDP, and especially you don't have citizens' support. I hope that will be very soon obvious. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask you any questions personally, and I wouldn't be using this subject right now, because the other day you ran out of this room after the speech you gave us, so I'm going to leave it for the final word, because we have 20 minutes, and now we've used this, and we're going to use the second part of the time left after the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14063	The word is from MP Milisav Petronijevic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the SPS believes that today's agenda is two laws of great importance for Serbian citizens. For a long time privatisation and all that follows privatisation has been the subject of debates, disputes, lawsuits, dissatisfactions of huge etc. That's why we think this is a very important question. Unfortunately, these two issues, i.e. these two laws, the law on changes to the law on privatisation and the law on the right to split free actions, are in the shadow of these current developments yesterday and today, which is that this ruling majority of the electoral act has shown irresponsibility for the management of this state, at times when the state is in a difficult situation and before a major test to do everything, to invite all citizens, all parties, to gather around a single task, and that is to do everything to preserve Kosovo and to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. The ruling majority have subordinated the issue to party interests, they could not even agree, even if it is unique to discuss elections for the president of Serbia, but also there, for who knows which time, they split and, of course, the cost will be borne by Serbia, the citizens of Serbia. We've been listening to the polemics here today one part of the ruling coalition with another part of the ruling coalition. Both were sworn in by the Constitution, by the Constitutional Law. I ask them if they really do, do they know that by December 31st, the local self-government election should be called. For days, we warned in this assembly about the situation in certain municipalities in Serbia, in certain large cities, where the electoral will of citizens was lifted, listed the municipalities. Isn't that a significant question and constitutional obligation? When I say that, I mean, the Constitutional Law has required that by the end of the year, and there are only two weeks left, four laws are passed that regulate that area. I ask the question when it will be brought, if we have in mind how many points this session has on the agenda, that we will probably once come to the agenda what we are asking for for days, which is a report on the course of the Kosovo and Metohija negotiations, when your laws will come to the agenda, and whether it is also a constitutional obligation that must be respected or simply overcome the party's interest that, as when it suits, one part of the election is held, and the other part of the election is not important. When it comes to these two laws, Mr. Djelic, I want to, before I move on to them, just to tell you the following, and that is, you have today presented these two draft laws as a pre-election campaign or a start, it is quite irrelevant, but I promise you that the SPS MPs in the coming days, and they have submitted more than 30 amendments to both laws, give you the opportunity to answer many questions that are relevant to the citizens of Serbia in this area. What I want to say in short is that I am glad that the government has accepted the SPS amendment to Article 23 of the law on the right to grant free action. Even so, you said, that was the government's amendment. We're not as vain as the government is vain, it's all the same to us, it's important to us that such provisions in Article 23, and later I'll be back to that, no more. Otherwise, neither did the government because she wanted something like that, because she offered a completely different solution. This is simply an extorted move by the Independent Unions of Serbia, we supported them in this, and we support them constantly in doing everything and getting expressions in protecting workers in all processes, including in the privatisation process. When there's an amendment debate, we'll talk about each of them in detail. What I'm saying is, given that this is a principle debate, this year ends 10 years since the property transformation process in Serbia began. In 1997, by adopting the Law on its own transformation, in 2001 by adopting the Law on Privatisation, Amendments 2003 and 2005. So, after 10 years of carrying out this privatisation process, one thing is certain, citizens had huge expectations of this process. They knew that in the process of property transformation, the huge wealth that they had been gaining for years, they had great expectations that this would be done in the most just way and that everyone would have an excuse from that privatisation. Short to remind, in 1997, the Law on its own transformation had the concept of sharing 60% of shares free of charge to all employees, to all former employees, to all pensioners, to all unemployed, to all employees in other businesses, farmers registered and unregistered and not to list any further. It is only fair that those who have produced good years, that they have the most rights and that they get back from that privatisation. In 2001, the changed concept, when the Privatisation Act was passed and it had a different way of privatization, and we had just heard from Mr Djelic's opening statement that he is now trying to explain, as I would say, that he is on the agenda, that this is a good method. I'm not gonna talk about it, because it's been years, but I want to say something else. I want to say, in relation to those great words, by Mr Djelic in relation to this privatisation, I want to say that a huge number of Serbian citizens do not think so. A huge number of Serbian citizens are disappointed with this kind of privatisation. Privatisation has neither proven that it is efficient nor economical, nor developmental, so that we can discuss it even more in detail, it would be good to cross the arguments. So the question, Mr. Djelic, is how many companies are privatized, what are the effects of this privatisation, what have they been spent on or where these effects are spent and then we could discuss it in more detail. One thing's for sure - she's not socially just. It is not socially fair for the simple reason that it has left a huge number of people unemployed, left them unemployed and how privatisation can be successful, if instead of increasing the number of employees, it increases the unemployment rate to the largest in Europe. Not to go any further, one thing is certain that citizens think so, and we fully agree with them, they think that privatisation is downgraded to the sale of successful and potentially profitable enterprises, and that the rest of them are, and you said themselves, those unattractive companies, and also that are privatised, have mostly ended up in bankruptcy. If they got a new owner, he would fire workers, declare bankruptcy, etc. It is difficult to convince citizens of Serbia, in the conditions in which they live, how successful it is. If, of course, it's being observed statistically, the average is good, but if a little bit of dissipation is seen that in fact a small group of people have become enormously rich at the expense of this, and a huge number of people have become even poorer. Mr. Djelic, please comment on the UNICEF data. You said poverty was halved. You said it was now at 490 grand. Unicef threw out the data, launched an aid action -- that only 400,000 children are below the poverty line. If we add to that a huge number of unemployed, if we add more than 700,000 pensioners, who are on the verge of survival and I'm not counting further, the key question is exactly what with 60% of the unsatisfactory materially secured who live in constant uncertainty, who don't know if they're going to be out of work tomorrow, they don't have savings, they're quite in charge, etc. No longer, the citizens think so, they're convinced so, and we think they're right. This is a failed reform and no reform will succeed unless it is socially just. The SPS is for reforms and will support everyone, but who is socially just. I'm just going to briefly comment on these draft laws that are here on the agenda, given, I repeat, that we have over 30 amendments. I'll take this opportunity to list countless examples for each amendment, by several examples, that seek an answer, and it's gone. I'll just mention some. I don't know who no longer talked about Sartide, from citizens to the Corruption Council, your advice that you formed. Citizens have lost track of what's going on today. Not to mention the Centromarket, not to mention the "Dimitry Tucovic" sugar factory, where it's been going on for years in a way to come into bankruptcy, to sell out property, which is otherwise huge and that covers everything. Not to count further, Magnochrom, where instead of production, the cars are cut down and I don't count any further. In the end, the privatisation control was bad, she had instruments from the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry. Please, when it comes to privatisation, both of them have imperial authority, and they didn't exercise that right. There are about seven or eight reasons for the end of the contract. I ask an answer to the question -- how many contracts have been broken under those paragraphs, how much has been broken because it has not been invested, how much has been broken, and whether there has been a contract broken at all because the protection of employees has not been carried out in accordance with the privatisation contract, etc. When it comes to the right to free action, I just want to mention a few words. The right to free action is not the right to have Mr Djelic, so he will give it to the citizens of Serbia. It is the obligation of this country, which stemmed from the provisions of the Law on Privatisation in 2001. It said that privatisation would end in four years, and after that, free action would be shared with citizens of Serbia, all of them. Of course, the next year of 2003, again in four years' time, and now we have a bill on amendments to the Privatisation Act, which re-moves the 2009 deadline, not 2008. The end of 2008 was something else, that he announced the tender. That looks like the one for the EU. The DOS authorities said in 2000 that in seven years we were in the EU, then in 2003 again in seven years, then in 2005 again in seven years, here and now -- again in seven years. In the end, when it comes to free action -- that's the right that citizens have received. Here's the problem - is this the imagined free share of shares fair, is it just? I'm not questioning that it wasn't in the law, but is it fair if the same person who didn't start working and the one who spent 40 years working? But, okay, who won't support something for a citizen to get. I only have one specific question, Mr. Djelic. This law suspends Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises. To remind you, a member of the 9th Law on Public Enterprises says that up to 30 percent can be transferred to actions without compensation, 15 percent for free actions to citizens, and up to 15 percent to employees in public enterprises. Why up to 15 percent? Because it's a big asset. But there it stands, Mr. Djelic, another provision. What remains of the 15 percent will be transferred to the Privatization Register. You say in the law that 15 percent is shared, and what about this other, the remaining 15 percent that are in the Privatization Register. Are they so deprived of Serbian citizens that they get them? When it comes to public enterprises, I want to repeat, such a proposal as the government has made that they can choose, whether they will receive 200 euros in shares or cash compensation. We, by supporting the union, have made an amendment that they should receive shares, not a cash fee. The union was right there. Now I see the government has accepted it and that's good. Why? Public enterprises workers are not only directors who have five, six, seven thousand euros in salary, but a huge number of people who work and thus sacrificed their job for not so much money. They shouldn't be privileged, but they shouldn't even be discriminated against. If all employees have the right to 200 euros in action, then they have the right. At the very end, Mr. Djelic, that Article 9a was adopted in 2005 at the request of the SPS. At that time, the SPS supported the government in the Assembly and then blocked the law for two reasons. The first reason was to also enable the division of these actions at this height that I was talking about, and the second reason, Mr. Djelic, for which I ask you a decadent answer - what percentage will be the sale of public enterprises. Then we warned the government of Vojislav Kostunica -- if the government sells more than 50 per cent of ownership of public enterprises, we will immediately withdraw support and fall to the government. And now we warn you, we will never agree that the government does not remain a majority owner in public enterprises. So, not to remain the owner of 51% shares in the company. I ask you to give a very direct answer, given that here in the law it says that at the same time with the adoption of this law, the Government will adopt or establish a concept towards public enterprises. We just heard from you that you're going out with a strategy and some public enterprises and a special law. I want to make it clear to you once again, the SPS will never accept, never agree, will do everything, until citizens and unions are invited to protest and boycott, if the government defines itself to privatise more than 51% of public enterprises' actions. We will talk about details when amendments are made, when the amendments are discussed, we will have a lot to say and a lot of opportunities to give Mr. Djelic a concrete answer to all these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14065	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14066	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to Mr. Vladan Batic's presentation in the afternoon debate. I ask the chairman not to consider the time of the quote to me because I would like to prove that there are very often truths about Kosovo and Metohija, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and MPs from Kosovo and Metohija in this National Assembly daily being about the red carpet for the promotional campaign of Mr Vladan Batic. I quote Mr Batić's morning presentation: "Here is an illustrative example of how money is spent. Trepca's combination owned a business space in Knez Mihail Street of 229 square meters, so Belgrade's most exclusive place. The president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija of the National Assembly is otherwise a member of the Management Board of the Trepca Combinate Management Board, without advertising or bidding procedures, concludes a contract with a buyer who sells this exclusive space at the price of 2,200 euros per square, which is two to three times cheaper" etc. Then it ends up being said, "It's a story of budget spending, it's a story of the state being sold out for good, it's a concern for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, not to talk about crime related to the sale of the Trepce lead concentrate. There are people here who are members of the Management Board, the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is a member of the Management Board of Trepce, so it would be time for the debate on the budget to illustrately explain to us how maternal budgets are spent." Given that nothing is true in all of this, it is not the first time, because it is obvious that Mr Batic is making a difference among the Serbs in Kosovo, now that the data and from whom he gets for such a way of accusing him, I do not know, but it would be good to break up with it, because the Assembly of Shareholders regarding these allegations of RMHK "Trepca" has made its decision, meaning the assembly, not the board of directors, on a proposal from the board of directors, has made a decision to determine immovableity. That's March 21st. So it's not true there's no decision. Then says Article 4 of that decision - the Commission will implement the public sale process by collecting written offers, in accordance with the Real Estate Transport Act. An ad on the sale of the facility will be published by the commission in one of the daily papers or "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It is true that I am a member of the Management Board of Trepce, but of 25. 03, it is the decision of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, where I am appointed member of the Management Board of Trepce. So there's absolutely evidence that it's not true, I say, again, in a series of allegations by Mr. Batic, so please...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14067	Thank you, Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14068	Please, let me finish, or I'll report back to the Rules of Procedure, because this story must have its end. So I ask Mr Batic, since he is a liar, and this is irrefutable in a series, to apologize to me as chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and all the workers of the Trepca Combinet. Otherwise, the immunity of the MP is denied for this speaker, so that everything that is presented behind this speaker can be proved in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14069	Thank you, Mr. Milentievich. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14070	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, honored gentlemen from the Agency and the Ministry of Economy, I would really like to ask your attention, because I hope that the data will be valuable for informing about this procedure, the central procedure of all transition processes in all the countries of Southeast Europe that have had the dominant social or state property. I will speak again with my CIP method - the figures in front of politics. Six years have passed since the adoption of the Privatisation Act in July and indeed some balance of assets and passports can be implemented. The new law in 2001 was based on public auction sales, a public tender as exclusive privatisation methods, with the remaining 30% in auctions being shared by insiders, and the tender 15% to insiders, i.e. former and current employees in these companies. There's a lot of criticism as to why the dominant principle of general or majority voucheration has not been used. As many advocates are invited, they are calling for Professor Alexander Byte, who says we will not sell anything that is not to be sold, and we will sell everything that is to be sold. It's a good method, but this method could be used in 1990, when we had 100% activity, and in 2000 it was 40% of that base from 1989. At that time, in 2000, the method of dominant vacherisation or insider sales could not be used because there was no substance. The activity was down to 40% compared to the 1989 level. What has been done so far for the first six years? It was privatised to 1,900 companies, around 1,900 companies, probably not fully updated the last days, through a tender of around 90 and 1,800 through public auctions; some 280 privatisations were broken, of which seven or eight tenders, 280 or 15%, as the vice president had already said. In the same period, it was reprivatised, therefore, what we should have done, which was privatised by insider privatisation since 1989, or since 1990, was reprivatised about 900 companies, where we have Hemofarm, Apatian brewery, chelarevo, Knjaz Miloš, Soko Strk, reprivatized, or sell small shareholders' shares through a big money takeover offer. The privatisation revenues at this interval were generated with around 4 billion euros, where the sale price as the first attribute of sales amounted to about 2.4 billion euros, mandatory investments as the second component of the mandatory 1.2 billion and a mandatory social programme of about 0.4 billion. We all know that the highest selling price of these social enterprises was Philip Morris, 400 million, etc. It remains to be privatised from social enterprises, but living enterprises still have about 700 and these companies must be privatised according to the amendments and amendments of the law, in conclusion with 31. 12. In 2008. Privatisation and about 30 enterprises in the restructuring of so-called large systems, which have been restructured under a special programme of the government, where there were 70, remain to complete the restructuring around 30 more and final privatisation would be carried out. It has remained to begin and complete the ownership of around 17 republican and about 450 local companies, to arrange the property of the so-called so-called. public enterprises, one that will be either a majority state, or a minority state or completely privatised, but mostly followed by privatisation. I would say a few, in my opinion, basic remarks that followed this process. In my opinion, the weakest point is that it lasted six years. Privatisation requires speed. Everything that is exposed here as a mistake, as a failure, is much less than the decline of the substance when in the collision of two properties of one's own, or private and no one's, or social, encounter of one's own and nobody's property legally gives birth to corruption, and it's far from the principle of a normal, efficient, market economy. Finally, that's what we plebiscitely said, the entire parliament, the whole state, by abolishing social property in the Constitution. Therefore, according to my deep conviction, it is a fundamental mistake, that it is not used to use the privatisation process in as many privatisation entities as possible. Part two, already mentioned stalling with the restructuring of large systems. It is known that the restructuring of 70 large systems, according to the government's special programme, has invested 8 billion euros, about 8, the discharge of debts 7 and direct subsidies from the billions budget, and that so far's revenue is 300m euros and that 30 other large systems so-called. waiting for the completion of the restructuring. I also appeal as an individual and in front of the DS parliamentary group that it is indeed hurrying to restructure and finally privatise these 30 large systems, because the costs will always be higher than the revenues. Definitely for Bor, First Five-year-old, EI Nis, IMR Rakovica, 14 October, IMT, First Spark Baric, Jagodina cable factory, Zastava, FAP and other systems should indeed be rushed because costs are higher than potential revenues. There is still a TOP company, social enterprises, as part of the privatisation of public enterprises. For example, the Belgrade and Novosad Fair, these are TOP companies, Geneks, Icarbus, Petrochemy Panchevo, Heba, PKB corporations, the Bookshop, and I don't know if he's got a special status, and some other companies where certain privatisation incomes can be realised, where to expect. In this previous group, it is particularly difficult to expect large privatisation revenues. No matter what anyone says and no matter how many unions they say, we're out of a job, so they haven't got a job in 10 years, 20 years without a job. Then there's a big hot potato that can't be taken in hand all the time, and it's gotta be taken in hand sometime. He was mentioned and fortunately, this law on general vacuuming, the beginning of general vacuuming, practically, imperative, set the standard for public enterprises to be privatised by 2010. Because, basically, it's the hardest part of privatisation. It is also a matter of political, economically strong significant entities, where it is very difficult to enter into a radical privatisation. All the countries of Europe were either losing or winning the battle on the very case of these large public enterprises. I think it has now matured time and unanimity in the government to enter into restructuring and increasing efficiency, under two, and under three, definitely ownership of public enterprises, both republican and local. The first measure that I said, the first measure that has already begun refers to the generalisation of the first six major public enterprises through the singleing out 15% of actions to give to all full-time citizens. Indeed, not to say hello, gentlemen, but to ask why it has not been done before. It's the only question that can be appropriate, because we finally have parallel examples, all countries are to a certain extent, especially those that we mention, have been vacuuming. And whether it's worth 1,000 or 500, or 2,000 euros, it's really very important, but it has to jump first and then say hop, gentlemen. We need to jump first and start restructuring and general vacuuming. This is the first step. We had 40% of GDP, now we have 65. First as some analyst, I'm economically unsatisfactory at that pace, but one level is 65% of GDP, and one is 40%. We had salaries, I repeat, 57 euros in 2000, now 350 euros. Maybe the purchasing power didn't grow that many times, but it's far bigger. Whoever objectively observes, if he looks through colorless glasses, and not through pink, or through black, he has to say it. People get bigger salaries, bigger receipts, they have the possibility of credit and what they haven't done since the time of Ante Markovic, which is that they buy TVs and refrigerators, and even cars, they're now starting. Gentlemen, that's what we all see. A few more words about two laws. On the Privatisation Committee on behalf of our group, and in my personal opinion, I have already suggested that this alternative right be deleted for cash, on a monetary bonus for public company workers. It's enough to give them the maximum that was applicable to all other workers. I have not submitted the amendment, I have written the amendment, I have not submitted it because it has been said that the government itself has reached an agreement that this alternative form of law for current and former public companies workers to delete, to remain only the right to action. I think that's all that matters, to achieve that these workers will have a maximum right under one, and two to the stock market, the Belgrade Stock Exchange that started in 2004 to work and regardless of its fluctuations and capital withdrawal and the fall in shares, is a living organism. Today we trade or do not trade, but a large number of natural persons today trade on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, buy and sell, open ownership accounts, go to investment funds, go to brokers and work with actions. There should be more and more of us, and that way, if four million people get on that stock market, it can only strengthen, it can only strengthen. There's no party logic or cheerleading. It's a fake, it's a fact. How it's gonna be, we'll see. We have growth rates, it has to be 6, then 6.5%, then 6.5% by 2010. If not, where are you, Mr. Minister? What did you say if it wasn't? Seven percent of GDP will grow in 2007. If it's not someone, it should fit. If it's not the next 6%, we're here, not to say that we suspect anything that carries an attribute to the market economy, and we're all in favour of the market economy. He can't take the goat and the money. Another special aspect I would specifically suggest and suggest, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group. Our people, the average citizen, are not at all educated and educated with regard to knowledge about actions, bonds, funds and all other attributes of the secondary market. I therefore propose and ask the Deputy Prime Minister to educate, through the public service, a series of information shows on this law and in general on trade in actions, bonds and, in particular, through the authorities of local self-government and through the Centre for Social Work, belonging to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, on the education of those people illiterate, semi-literate, who do not even know what it is about. They're estimated at 300 to 400 thousand. Let's include them really, so let's make it 1,000 euros, 500 euros, but for these people it's 500 euros big. In the end, I really think that, regardless of the glasses, pink or black, when it comes to market laws, these laws will really be adopted unanimously or almost unanimously, and in that sense I call you to vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14071	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. Inspired as always. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14072	First, I'd like to mention a few things. The first thing is how to privatize. What I'm saying is that these six companies don't work in the same branches and their situation is quite different. It is difficult to compare the situation of one Telekom Srbija, who is very well worn, thank him and all those who work there with competition, two very strong international competitors on our market, and found the opportunity to enter the Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro market. In addition, receiving support from the world's largest financial organization, which has given a 700m-dollar loan without any sovereign guarantee. It is a measure of progress experienced by Telekom Srbija and the opportunities the company opens for those who will receive free action in the company, without Serbia having any rush to make any majority privatisation of the company. The time will come when we will discuss the model, but it is certain that Telekom Srbija does not need any major sales over the next three years. It is much more likely to go out on the market, which would allow the capitalisation, so that this loan is also refinanced, get additional funding to develop and make Telekom Srbija what, for example, Hungarian 'Matav' has managed to do, which is that it has a regional approach and I think we will have an extremely strong enterprise in this way. As far as JAT Airways is concerned, the situation is different. We know that after the tender, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received a privatisation advisor who will make certain proposals by the end of the year. There is a strong interest in several companies in the strategic partnership and the government will determine by the end of the year which one will be the model. Be assured that it will be in a way that will preserve the name, preserve our country's flag over those planes, be assured that the conditions will be certain that the strategic partner will provide new planes that will enable daily ties between Belgrade and the capitals in the environment and will strengthen Belgrade and our country's position as regional leader, and finally of course appropriate investments, with the expansion of JAT Airways business and also improving the situation of employees. We see on these two examples the difference. We can also say that the EPS will in no way be privatised by the majority method, that for the EPS what is to come is to build additional capacity and it does not have to go into the next two years through the opening of capital, but through joint investment with strategic partners, of course through an open tender. As far as NIS is concerned, there are two options. One is minority privatisation, the other is majority. In any case, it will be done in Serbia's interest and thus we will increase our capacity to become a regional power in the area of energy. You know that the government of the Russian Federation has proposed a certain memorandum, it is being considered. The working group is formed and, of course, this home will be fully aware of the possible results of these discussions, because as an interstate contract and agreement it will pass the Assembly verification. In any case, it will be done in a way that will increase the value of all these companies and allow leadership to our country and in that domain. As far as Galenika is concerned, it is on an open market, has several powerful competitors and this process is here to provide additional resources to build the necessary facilities that will allow certification. She has until 2009, if I'm not mistaken by June 2009, to get proper certifications, so she can deal with the international competition that exists here. Our country has several interesting companies in that area. Some are domestic, some are foreign. Anyway, we have a real chance of being a country of the pharmaceutical industry and this program will make it possible for Galenika. As far as the airport is concerned, no majority sales are in question. It is, of course, necessary to provide additional resources to expand the operations of the Aerodrom. He's the first thing all strangers see coming into our country. At the same time, for our citizens and for business people, it's the same gate they go through into the world. It's also a great economic opportunity. I'll give just one example, not that it's a parallel number for us, but in Great Britain, Heathrow, London airport, represents 3% of the country's economy, so a large number of activities and added values are possible around the airport. And one joint investment through an international tender for the construction of the Belgrade Kargo Centre is an additional infrastructure venture that will take over our airport. There will still be debates at the government over this issue raised by one MP. We're going towards adopting one strategy for each of these companies and we see that they have a specific position. The second thing I want to mention is that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do everything possible for all citizens who have the right to take these actions. One of the key criteria of the success of this programme is whether those who are in the most difficult situation at this time, and we still have a very large number of difficult situations, from people who do not have a permanent address, people who have no personal papers yet, will be able, at the same time, and great action on the ground will be implemented, and not only communication through public information funds, but also on the ground, to ensure that through this action, if I may express myself, socialise, we provide the most vulnerable to become full members of our society. And I repeat, it's no accident why one of the conditions to take action is to be listed on the voter's list. We must also provide through this process, which provides a significant profit for every citizen of this country who has not yet participated in the privatisation process, to become a full citizen, as someone who votes, so let him vote for whom he wants, but to vote, to be an active participant in our life, political life, the public life of our country. On the other hand, coming into possession of valuable actions, to become an active participant and economic processes, and through this process to ensure a significant profit for himself, for his family. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, Rajko Baralić and Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14074	Mr. Albianic, I think what Mr. Djelic said is part of something that fits our 136th Rules of Procedure, but is not enough. I am extremely glad that the ruling Democratic Party MP came out for a pay phone and announced some statistics. But it would be good for the government to also deliver these data to this group of MPs belonging to the opposition. Why? It refers to data on the number of privatised enterprises, effects and privatisations, etc. There's nothing to worry about. There's no secret information. But why do you need that data delivered? To take a critical look at the current course of privatisation, because if we don't have such data, then the audience can remain confused, when a member of the government comes out, criticises the government, and then finally, in the last sentence, he says something that absolutely defusssssssssssssss everything he said before. I have this feller to impose on the subject, so now I am imposing a theme for the proper application of Article 136 of our Rules of Procedure. I would ask the government to answer our ideas of privatisation, which is the purpose of privatisation? Is it just to define who owns this property? Is it possible that the goal is to raise funds for some new investments, to invest the state? Is it perhaps the goal of filling out some social funds, which I do not dispute that it can be one of the very important goals? Or is the goal of filling the budget so the government can buy a new car, hire as many of its party personnel as possible, and otherwise position the other side of the social contract? Of course, I expect the government to respond to what the social agreement was for six and a half years, because without a social agreement it is impossible to implement some transformation, especially one society that has been in transition for so long. One more thing that is very important, and if there is experience in some other countries that have been through this painful transition period, how did the government protect the whole process? The Czechs had, say, between two and three billion marks at the time helping from abroad to preserve their central bank's currency stability, so that there would be no disturbance. Now we have the six and a half billion that were on the border when the Federal Assembly was burned, of course, there's nothing. First things first with the banks. I think the order's a little messed up. As for some social justice and social equality in the transition period, I feel bad about forgetting my cell phone. Do you know, Mr. Djelic, that you have this gas company, our central, which is the big loser? But when all the company's head's revenues are collected, that's 9,000 euros a month in dinar equivalent. Then how can this privatisation of yours be socially just, successful, stimulating, blessed, when you have someone who works for less than 100 euros a month and someone who receives 9,000 euros a month? Still, enough doesn't trust the hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14075	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14076	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Djelic, for the second time today you of the Democratic Party are disabling a procedure called the amendment. Please don't do this. You have no reason to. The SPS has submitted to this law, as well as to all other laws, numerous amendments, according to its political assessment. Among other things, amendments concerning art. 23th to 27th mentioned here as a bonus. You, Mr. Prime Minister, said in the opening statement that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted an amendment and that there will be no more bonuses, and that is what Mr. Vujadinovic said, that he just wanted and was about to, so when he was informed, he did not. And things are like this: the SPS has submitted all its amendments to this law 12. 12 at 10.10 hours; G 17 plus the same amendment filed 12. 12 o'clock at 12.05 o'clock. And then, don't lie to the devil, the government of the Republic of Serbia submits the same amendments, G 17 withdraws amendments and you here declare a political decision that you are good and beautiful and that 600,000 members of the Independent Union have reached an agreement with you. And I'm informing you that you didn't have to do anything about it. You've had all these amendments, look closely at them, take the political courage to accept them, because they've been filed by the SPS and say, "These are amendments that fix the law the way the union does." No one likes other people's feathers. So it's your business how you do it. As far as I'm concerned, it is immoral for the government to do so when two parliamentary groups have such amendments. That's not fair. That's not fair in political terms. Especially not fair to the opposition MPs. Mr. Djelic, we've been fighting here for a long time, and we know, and God willing, but there's no need for you to do that. It is no shame to accept one or five amendments from an opposition parliamentary group. It's a completely clean position. Your authority, your majority accepts the amendments, almost every law in the past few months, because they are such that they simply cannot be rejected. Some of the amendments will be accepted. Here, look, by every law. So this is what you should have done. That was honorable. What you've done falls within the scope of a low political blow. This is a low political struggle, and it's my job to tell you that I'm not sitting here because I'm raising diaries, it's my job to sit here, to hunt down your mistakes, to expose you politically, and to prove that you're doing things in an unprincipled political way. Thank you. I expect you to apologize to the SPS MPs for the way you go out to meet the workers, or the Independent Union. We support that you accept it, but I was obliged to tell you how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14077	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Maybe the union delivered the amendments to everyone, and you were the fastest. National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14078	Mr. Chairman, I will no longer tell you about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, when you are breaking it, because you are a hopeless case, it is not worth talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14079	Don't, Mr. Arsic. Just tell me when I broke it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14080	It's not worth paying too much attention to. As for my colleague from the Democratic Party, I will use this right to answer him for everything he said about this speaker in similar words that he said, but more acceptable to the citizens of Serbia. So there are no two prisms and two views. You just told Serbian citizens that they will lose their jobs and that it is good for them. You didn't say anything else. The opinion of the SRS is that it's not good for them or for the state. You're saying they didn't have a real job 10, 20 years ago. I wouldn't agree with that. And even if it did, should we kill them? Shouldn't we let them start a family, shouldn't we? Shouldn't we let them heal? You said all this before you submitted your candidacy to the president of the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad you made it clear and loud about what the DS is thinking to Serbian citizens. I ask the question why, what's the reason. For your colleagues from the DS, from this ruling majority, to have a salary of, say, 600,000 dinars. So NIS has to raise the price of oil derivatives, affect the price of food, in order for NIS directors to receive a salary of 600,000. Come on, we don't want JAT, we don't want the airport. What about the ZTP? We're taking out a loan. Why? To get the director's salary of 300-400 grand. All those mouths that are going to stay hungry because of the privatisation, according to you, we have to kill them so you don't have to spend money on them. One more thing, beautiful colorful lies talking, easier to buy a refrigerator and buy a car, has loans. Compare these loans with interest rates that are here with EU countries. Why don't you copy them into something you don't need them in, not in this. They're not even close, two, two and a half, three times more. When we talk about these values, I have to admit that you were right about something. It is easier today than one average salary, watching the parity of wages and goods, buying a refrigerator or a car. Maybe it took you 500 pay for the fridge earlier, now you need 300 pay. But how many times does he collect food? How many times does it collect electricity? How many times does the cost of living go? How much more expensive is schooling for kids? How much more expensive is the treatment of children? How much more expensive are colleges? When you add it up and subtract it, you see how much you have left, much less than before October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14081	The word is by MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14082	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will briefly say about the draft law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. I've done more examples from the region, and I've based my speech on it. No one has ever shared free actions in the way it will be done in Serbia, because in such a procedure, they are not receiving a voucher without cover, but real money through action. This law sort of corrects past injustices to the extent possible, if possible, and strengthens the process of restructuring and privatisation of public enterprises. By sharing free actions, Slovenia, which did so early in the 1990s, is the brightest example. A year, right after the secession. Their example was not copied from the region, and the distribution of free shares was not very popular among our neighbours. So, the privatisation vouchers were given to all citizens of Slovenia. Those who were up to 20 in 1993 received a voucher or a 100,000-tolar certificate, which is currently around 1,300 euros. These vouchers couldn't be cashed, they could only be bought shares in companies. Citizens up to 30 years of age were given 200,000 tolars, i.e. around 2,600 euros, and those citizens up to 40 years of age received 300,000 tolars or about 3,900 euros. Citizens who were up to 50 years old received 400,000 tolars or 5,200 euros, and over 50, as many as 500,000 tolars or 6,500 euros. There was also the possibility of getting a 50% discount if shares were purchased in a company where a citizen works. Slovenians chose for themselves whose actions they would use the vouchers for. The wisest were those who used them to buy shares of Mura, Union, Lek Krka, Pirovarna Laško, but the actions of these companies have been constantly growing and today these companies have been very successful. In Slovenia, however, there were losers. They were the ones who invested a voucher in non-profit companies. The stocks fell, there were no dividends, and the certificates only became worthless papers. At one point, before the privatisation ended, it happened that there were more vouchers with citizens than assets for privatisation. As for the citizens of Croatia, they did not receive free shares, but had the privilege of buying on the stock market. For the first time in the method of initial public offering, citizens bought actions of the oil company "Ina" worth up to 5,000 euros, and many Croatian citizens did not hesitate to borrow or sell an apartment to buy these shares. The price in the public offer was 1.690 kuna, i.e. 230 euros on the first day of the Ina stock exchange, rose by 28% on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, with a total turnover of nearly 190m kuna, i.e. almost 26m euros. On the first day on the stock market, every citizen who participated in Ina's initial public offering earned $90 per share. The case of Croatian Telecom is fresh, I think most of us heard about it, if not closer to reading it. The government sold 32.5% of shares to citizens and 7% to institutional investors through public offerings. The price of the public offering was 265 kuna, or 36 euros, and the average package of 15,100 kuna and 2,070 euros respectively. The price by action has already increased by 115 kuna on the first day, and that is 43% growth, in the course of the day it went up to a level of 419 kuna. Citizens who sold packages of 63 shares on the first day at the price of 419 kuna earned as much as 1,328 euros. In Hungary's application of this method of initial public offering to the Hungarian passenger transport company Nabi in 1997, it is one of the country's most successful initial public offerings, as stocks jumped and the company strengthened. A good example is of Hungary's MOL, which is now worth 13 billion euros. In Romania, too, they have experience with initial public offerings. One of the most successful was the case of the Flamingo International computer company in July 2005. I must say that Bulgaria is not a bad example either, and two banks have had significant success. On the first day of trading, the Corporate Commercial Bank had a 30% jump, and a week later the First Investment Bank increased by 13%. Let's go back to Serbia now, when we saw how it was done in the region. All those who have not received free shares in the privatisation process by this law are entitled to them. Public enterprises employees are entitled to sign up for action in each of the six companies, including the EPS, including Serbia's power grids, Resavica Mines, Kosovo's copies, Kosovo's thermoelectric power plant, Elektro Kosmet, NIS, including Trans-naphtha and Serbia's gas, JAT, Telekom, including PTT Serbia, Belgrade and Galenika. All full-time citizens who acquired their adulthood on 31 December 2008 and have Serbian citizenship by 30 June 2007 at the latest, have the right to free action and all receive equal benefits. The total mass of funds for citizens will be divided into around 3,850,000 people, and the bill says that about four billion euros will be distributed to citizens. This law has been inherited since 2001. Had it not been for this proposal that we are discussing today, the Privatization Register could have received 50-60 euros per person. The idea is to speed up the privatisation and listing process of public companies on the stock market. Free action is a motive for the process of restructuring the change of ownership and way of functioning on the stock market to remove any veil of secrecy about the business of public enterprises. We have discussed this several times in this House. I won't talk much about details. You've heard that from both the Deputy Prime Minister and individual MPs. I'll just say that the estimate is that the market value of all six public enterprises is about 25 billion euros at the moment of privatisation. The bill says 15% of the sum is three billion and 750m euros, adding money from already privatised 68 companies by the tender method, which is about 250m euros. When underlining the line, the total amount for citizens is about 4 billion euros. When it adds what they can share and get employees and former employees of six public enterprises, the total amount that will be divided is 4.75 billion euros. It is important to say that these are estimates, and that real market values can be even higher, and may be, which is very rarely happening, lower than this sum. It may be that this proposal is not ideal, it's not even the best, but for the first time, it's meant for an ordinary man to get some real money, because he was involved in creating what is national wealth and value. This law will certainly speed up privatisation, force public enterprises to go out on the market, direct investors' attention towards us, prepare all of us for EU market rules and principles. So besides the money for ordinary people, that's quite enough from one law. As far as these changes were concerned by Mr. Vice-President of the Government, we know that the trade unions were visiting, so to speak, all parliamentary groups and that, based on what the trade unions were demanding, we all submitted amendments. Some of these amendments were accepted by the government, and it is crucial that the trade unions decided that they did not have to make their own referendum in their own company to determine between bonuses and actions. It seems to me that sometimes it is better not to give people the right choice, but to prescribe what needs to be done, because when you give them the right choice, then confuse them, so most people fear whether the minority will be satisfied, then the minority is afraid that most of them will vote over them. But not to elaborate further. In any event, in subsequent discussions and talks with relevant trade unions, it has been concluded that to some extent it is complicated to exercise the rights of employees and former employees and that it is thus decided to remove the concept of cash compensation or bonuses, as it was in the original draft law, from the overall text. This was sought by certain union organisations, and we MPs presented these proposals to the Government and finally, when we get the consolidated text of the law, we will see what is all of the proposal adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14083	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic. The chairman didn't break the Rules of Procedure, did he?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14084	Mr. Albianic, read the Rules of Procedure, so I think you'll understand. Article 225. I'd like to refer to Mr. Vujadinovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14085	I said no one should touch Mr. Vujadinovic here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14086	Are you some kind of superman? We just heard from Mr. Vujadinovic that he has been living well in Serbia since the DOS came to power, how everyone can take loans, get in debt and over-indebted, how big wages are, how purchasing power is increased. Here's some information for you, Mr. Vujadinović, both from DOS and DS, because the others are gone, I guess that coalition of yours broke. From privatization of the Robing Houses, it's $2.6 billion. Until then, you had $2 billion of direct investment invested in our country. Of $2 billion direct investment, the unemployment rate is growing. So, aside from all that investment. I don't know where now Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic is, he's out. If he were here, I'd explain it to him now. From him I just want to hear, as well as the citizens of Serbia, how he managed to register 11m euros in Meridian Bank shares, and after publication in the press and after the speech of the SRS MPs in the Assembly about it, all of a sudden Bozidar Djelic doesn't have any action in Meridian Bank. So where's the 11m-euro trail of his stock when he didn't pay the tax, if he sold it to, to whom he sold it, where did those shares end, and how did he get it? I'm sorry he came out. Let's get back to this. The unemployment rate is on the rise. That's what Mr. Cvetkovic said two days ago and your finance minister. I say again, out of two billion direct investments, not one job. How much of this investment should be invested in Serbia in order to reduce the unemployment rate or bring it all down to zero? What kind of money is that, if you don't have two billion dollars for one job? Mr. Vujadinovicu, you forgot in your speech to say and to refer to how many Serbian citizens are out of work, without pay and without their job. I've recently talked here about Nicole Tesla Airport and 440 workers who have been out of work since the new director of Bojan Kristo from G17 came to them, a coded party. These are yours, Mr. Albianic. You threatened to go straight to the replica after that, but you got out of the O.R. Just one more sentence. What country do you live in when you don't know how people live in Serbia and how many people are out of work in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14087	Replica, MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14088	Dear gentlemen, very short. Jake and too strong words come out and forget each other, but the numbers stay. The figures are, and time, both for us and for all the judges (yes, and for that article). The number is a winner and she says what I practically quoted. Second, I never said it was good, or I mean it. Not even close is good, but, gentlemen, it's better, it's much better. That's what the numbers say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14089	Mr. Vujadinović, if I understand you correctly, you say that mathematics is the queen of science? Thank you. Finally, we move on to the order of MPs. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. He's not present. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Deputy Prime Minister, in this united debate today, we have two very important laws on the agenda, it seems to me, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, therefore the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation and this other law that I will speak of, which is the bill on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens in the privatisation process are making. So you could hear more about privatisation. In one, I think, a more flexible and fairer way is sorting out some of the parts that concern privatisation in the future, for these companies that are left to privatize. They make it impossible for those with suspicious capital to participate in privatisation, and somewhere more flexible towards workers, who simply have their rights to be protected in that work that concerns, for example, if they do not receive wages and minimum earnings, they can break up the privatisation process. This second law, and it seems significant, is primarily interesting for citizens, for at least four million Serbian citizens. It is a bill on the right to free action and cash compensation in the privatisation process. I must point out that this law, in fact, stems from the obligation of the 2001 Privatisation Act, which stipulates that those citizens who did not participate, that they did not get the shares in privatisation, that they would get the shares so that the privatisation would be completed and that they would get those actions that went into the privatisation fund. So 15% of each of the companies that were privatised were in the privatisation fund and all those actions for these 68 companies, estimated at between 200m euros and 250m euros. If it were to be divided into four million citizens who have so far failed to exercise this right to sell social property that they have created, it would be a small sum to be given to citizens, it seems to me that it would be humiliating for Serbian citizens to participate in getting the shares they certainly deserve. Then we come to this bill of law that implies privatising six public enterprises. I think it's a very good idea and we support it. Certainly G17 plus supports this idea of privatizing these six public enterprises that are certainly the most valuable. In the later presentation, I'll explain why these six public enterprises are a good rapper for everything that's going on. If we take, say, four thousand dinars to be divided into four people, this law predicts that each person gets 1,000 dinars, and that's somewhere fair. Whether it's fairest I don't know, I'm not sure, but if we divide these 1,000 dinars into each of them, in the woods, in one family, it'll mean they all got the same thing. We've heard all sorts of ideas here whether it can be divided by years, whether by years of working hours. I think this is still the most just, and those young, and those students, and those who have now become adult and who become adult, will have the rights and opportunities to learn what the stock market is and the state will help them do so. It seems to me that this is one of the few practical laws that helps people to school in one free way and where the state gives something to the citizens of Serbia. Let me start with that and explain, and first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, MPs certainly know enough, it is not a waste to repeat who has the right to all this free action. So, these free actions that will be shared have all the full-time citizens of Serbia who meet five of the following conditions: to gain their adulthood by the end of 31 December of this year, the second condition is that they have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia on 30 June 2007, the third condition is that they have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with 30. Six. In 2007, the fourth condition that they have not participated in the action process so far and the fifth condition is to be recorded. So, all of them, and it's predicted, as I said, that there are four million of them, who exercise this right and that they are recorded with all of these previous conditions that I've counted, will have the right to receive actions that are actually divided into two parts. First they will have the right to action, and later, when these companies are privatised and the market value of all these public enterprises is established, they will have the right to trade in those actions. Another category of people who will have the right to receive shares from the sale of public enterprises are employees of these public enterprises. So, just to mention, six public enterprises will enter this privatisation process are NIS, EPS, Telekom, JAT, "Nikola Tesla" and Galenika. What and how do you divide? On the one hand, money is divided, we said, by the end of 2008, the Action Fund will sell all those actions that have been accumulated in the privatisation fund during these years, so 68 companies are privatised, but all others that are privatised by the end of 2008 will enter that sum that will be shared. I guess there are a lot of interested people who will pay for these shares no lower than they bought at the beginning, not less than the companies that have privatised, the ones who bought them at the start of this company, not paying at a lower price. I am sure that the actions will jump and that the prices of these actions will be much higher because these companies are successful, and new serious players appear on this market who will be interested in investing. What's different is what's going to be shared, these are actions and we've already said that, 15% of the six public enterprises. By the end of 2010, public enterprises are expected to be privatised. What model does this law not foresee, nor prejudges, but we could hear from the Deputy Prime Minister that there are different models and I think that the government will come out with a strategy soon in which public enterprises will be privatised. It certainly will have to be kept in mind that the state in some of these public enterprises must certainly remain a majority owner. What is the third segment of these divisions, which is these 200 euros, is obviously definitely the most significant that employees in these public enterprises will get, since with the government's consent this part of that bonus has fallen off. So 200 euros per year of work will be given to all employees and it seems also fair to share with citizens of Serbia, with those who have not until now had the right to take action, all that amount that will be available. I think it is important for all those who are equal members of this society and have participated in the construction of these public enterprises, whether from the taxes that have been taken over these years, for all those educational workers, health workers, for all those who work in the military, the police, but also for farmers, for the unemployed, for the students, for those young people who come, it is important that they will also participate in the distribution of these actions and that they will have the right to start these actions into a new story, which is trade on the market. Why these actions are completely free, it is very positive and should be noted. They are completely free of charge not only because the state gives them, but because they are exempt from that tax that you would pay on them, and in doing so, the government will choose the brokers it will pay for the first trade in those actions. That's very important. So, citizens are completely free of all the costs they will have when they go into trade with these actions. The transfer of these actions will, as I said, be carried out by having everyone registered entitled to them. So, that record will be carried out in six months, I guess, after the adoption of the law. It won't be shorter than six months. It's very important that citizens know that this record is completely free. We had the opportunity to see, perhaps a little earlier, some associations of citizens who appeared and who even charged some amounts to citizens to enroll free shares. So, citizens need to know that these are the most ordinary hohstuplers who do not have the right to do so, who could not do so. The Privatisation Agency will provide full free of charge, through certain services, and allow citizens to enter their actions completely free of charge. After all, it is very important that the rights of these actions are not portable. So, there were words, and it seems to me that there is once again to be potential, there are no mixeds that will offer you some lower value to buy earlier, because they will predict that these actions will not be worth, of course, predicting by their, I guess, wrong. There is no possibility that you can transfer actions to someone other than by inheriting the death of a family member who has earned the right to those actions. Let me say something about the benefits this law on free sale of shares will have for both citizens and businesses, but also for the country in general. So, in some ways, one benefit that is not valorized in material and well-being is for everyone, i.e. Justice for all. All citizens are somehow covered by this, and all citizens have some solidarity and should be part of sharing what the state has decided to sell. I think it's one of the moral categories that citizens will feel, and certainly the introduction of action and reviving our stock market is also important. You will get one piece of paper whose value will be determined when that company is sold, a public enterprise, within six months and you will get the value of that paper. You'll be able to trade. You're either gonna sell them right now, or you're gonna calculate and try to make money, and that's also one of the models of improving the stock market itself. What seems to me to be very important, and here is not mentioned, we will get to the public in the work of public enterprises. When we become shareholders or when these public companies broadcast some of the actions that citizens will be able to buy or when they change their owners, they will not be able to fight the National Assembly and MPs to find out what salaries are employed in public enterprises. They won't be able to be some fortresses that are closed and we'll know how they work. These days, we could also read one of the transparency reports that said that citizens are participating the work of some public enterprises. So where citizens estimate they have to pay, in a way to bribe employees in some of the public enterprises, such as, say, to get a phone connection they have to give 420 euros. That won't happen anymore. The public in the work of these public enterprises will be truly transparent and will be allowed everyone to, I suppose, hope that this will happen, to have insight into how these public enterprises work. It is very important for the company to invest these funds from this privatisation in restructuring, and this will allow these companies to work better and have better conditions. For the state, after all, when the state sells part of the capital it will have the means to invest in building bridges, in a balanced regional development, to work on building the infrastructure of this Serbia and it also seems to me that it is very important that we simply unify the different parts of this country in the right way and help and build where it is very important. So certainly group G17 plus will support these two laws and we'll certainly vote. I think that in the end, if you let me say, I don't view this as political marketing and I don't feel like a pre-election trick, because I think that citizens deserve this by law that was passed in 2001, but this is a process that by 2010, until all private businesses are restructured, will be for all citizens, regardless of which government is then in power or which option will rule this Serbia, and citizens are the ones we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14091	The word has the People's MP Srdjan Shin, followed by Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14092	The honourable MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, for the Roma Party, are certain that this is one of the laws for which I will vote as a MP for a simple reason because it should contribute to a large number of citizens living on the edge of social misery, to improve their home budget as much as possible. However, there are a few things I want to say in that direction and put out certain problems that we're going to face about it. I would continue on to what my colleague from G17 plus said that we would really have problems getting into action, because many are going to Serbia, asking for two or three thousand dinars, allegedly, that they will enroll citizens of action and that in this direction I expect from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the Government that they indeed, fellow Albianic, will allow me to say this to the Deputy Prime Minister if possible. In this direction, I expect that really in the office system or who is already going to register, try to bring it down to the lowest level of local communities, because it is precisely socially endangered categories, to allow in local communities or somewhere near the place of residence, to enter those actions, and in this way we will best fight those who are trying to abuse that money. Secondly, everyone says all Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to get these free actions. However, as the law is stipulated, we have a problem with persons who do not have personal documents. I have tried to propose a number of amendments to create conditions for these individuals to enjoy this right, under certain circumstances. The essence of my amendment is that these persons do not have to have citizenship and residence by 30 June 2007, but must prove that they had conditions and at that time to have citizenship. So de facto doesn't change the situation. So, in this process, they have to prove that they had citizenship that day, but they didn't have formal citizenship on that day, so they weren't included in the citizens' book. I have submitted amendments here, these are three amendments, which are spoken in one of the amendments to Article 2, to meet the conditions set out in paragraphs 1, 4, 5, Article 2, and on the other hand, that they never had the citizenship of any other state. Third, the conditions for obtaining Serbian citizenship existed on June 30th 2007. It is also said to provide personal documents no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this law. Since you have defined, in your bill, that at least six months will take a period of entry, these citizens are allowed to provide personal documents during that period and to actually make their entry with personal documents, but this formal condition is defined in a different way. I accept the possibility that we have not followed in detail the logic of the legislator and in this direction certainly that we can make some changes in the course of the debate, and to adapt these amendments and possibly the Government to propose some amendments or to propose a certain number of amendments to the committee in charge. I really ask that we meet, it's about 100,000 citizens of Serbia, they're citizens who are really the most socially endangered category. If we create such families, where four or five full - age members live, we give four or five thousand euros with which people under Gazela can solve their housing issues, they can decide to start some business. And then I see that this procedure has this dimension, and we're ready to help in that direction and open that debate, but let's do that before this law is passed, to do something in that direction. You said in your statement that people who don't have IDs would exercise that right when you spoke, and I would ask to see what your solution is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14093	The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14094	The first thing I'm saying is, it's one of the very important goals of this law, actually, is that even the most endangered layers of our society see through this process the possibility, not only to achieve rights, but to experience a new chance of resociation. We see here three key groups, first Roma, and as we have been trying for years, and that is that there is a dose of credibility, we have not forgotten the requirements that existed on the part of the Roma Nationality for the meeting, and this meeting is scheduled, as you know, for you and other representatives of the Roma minority to consider those questions that were raised when we were answering parliamentary questions. The way rights are exercised and whether certain coordination mechanisms should be established so that the Roma minority can exercise rights. So that, not that people, if I can express myself more freely, remember Roma when elections are, but that we work in continuity to improve the conditions of the lives of Roma minority members in our country. Thus, this law is not only a chance for all full-time citizens of the Roma minority to have the opportunity to get their hands on money, and that is an important motivation, and we see opportunities not only in collaboration with representatives of that minority, but also with representatives of other state authorities, and therefore they will be present, because a number of problems that have been solved over the past few years, when there have been no valid papers, we know well that the MUP has found ways to overcome certain difficulties, mostly for the needs of the health care of Roma minority members. That's the first category. I suggest we discuss all these questions at that meeting. Today you have an engagement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that every Roma that meets these conditions, to find an appropriate solution for them to come to their rights. But, you see, this is a chance that at the same time, not to say, let's say that they can exercise these rights without the papers that other citizens should have, but that they all get those papers. Another thing to enroll, that they vote the same, because it is the most important thing in continuity, in this way to exercise their civil and economic rights. The two other groups we particularly think of are temporarily displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija who vote in our country, and here we want to avoid any problems so that they can exercise their rights. Third, a situation that is specific, which is refugees, those who have that status, all those who have the right conditions. A very great deal of attention will be given to those three categories, especially the right that opens this law, while at the same time achieving all their civil rights. Of course, the three groups do not exhaust the list of those we specifically thought of, because it simply addresses most of our citizens, which is four million citizens. We want especially those who are in the country, suburban settlements, that is, the lack of our transition so far, and I openly say, that is, one of the great criteria of the success of this transition is - whether it increases or reduces equality in society. The transition, there were few words about it, reduces poverty. It is true and I am proud of it, not as a member of the government but as a citizen of our country, that such great poverty has fallen significantly in our country. But I can't possibly be satisfied that today 490,000 of our citizens live below the regional poverty line, which means that a family of three members, two adults and one underage child has less than 18,000 and 800 dinars net monthly. I'm not proud of it, but I'm proud to propose this law today, because this law will not solve all the problems, of course, it would be populism to solve it, but it is certain that it opens up new opportunities, especially for those layers of our society who haven't seen themselves enough as winners in this transition, who still have big problems. Thus, this law is a particular opportunity for members of the Roma minority, for temporary displaced persons from KIM, for refugees, and also for retired couples living in under-income cities, numerous families, as well as those living in the countryside, who live in some form of isolation and products for their own survival, but are not sufficiently involved in changes in our society. I'm not saying, of course, that this law and giving free action, I'm already convinced, that Mrs Grubjesic spoke earlier, will give value if people are in a position to preserve these actions and for a longer time than when it is traded, that value will be significantly higher. Since we don't want to lead people astray, we've given one conservative assessment that the value is in the next three years, because it won't come in one wave. Once you register, there will be this action and the money will come on multiple occasions. Every time there is privatisation, a stock market exit, a strategic partnership, a capitalisation, when a professional price is established through a market competition, which a large investor is willing to pay -- that is what will be quoted on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Six months later, all citizens who have received these free actions and employees, there is no difference, but are employees, citizens can trade and will be able to develop their rights. We know that a number of citizens will want to, because they are hard to live for, to sell, but it will be very important, even in those situations, that the conditions are such, I am convinced that they will be so, that they also, in time, exercise their right. You see that law, for one, naturally gives value to the hands of the citizens. It's right that those who said it wasn't something the government invented and made available. Yes, honourable MPs, this way you can see the accumulated talent of generations that have formed our country, but at the same time through this opening of capital not only will the widest layers of our society have the opportunity to participate, to get back some of those efforts and taxes that have been paying for all these years, but through additional privatisation, capitalisation and strategic partnership of these companies our public finances will get a new chance, the way we will finance the next generation of infrastructure projects -- five bridges, corridor 10, multimodal port of the Danube and a series of other major infrastructure projects that will mark the decades to come. For our citizens, it means opportunity and money. At the same time, for those who are not listed here, I am convinced that this will be a real motivation, that in 2008 for the most endangered layers, because one direct contact will be established at the place, with the participation of those who represent them, including you, Mr. Shane, and all others, that we will begin to see more about these problems and solve them. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14095	Thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14096	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister and I will have to warn him that refugees, under the provisions of this law, will not exercise the right to a free allocation of action. So we don't have a foothold. Article 2, which defines rightholders, does not allow and does not create space for the refugee population to receive the right to free division of shares. This particularly concerns refugees from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. This right was not achieved by Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, not because Croatia passed a privatisation law in 92, with a deadline until it can be realised. Since there was a period of war, Serbs there could not go there and exercise their right to do so. In the later period there was no possibility that this right could be achieved through certain audits of legal projects, etc. Even this law does not allow refugees, a large number of refugees, to gain the right to action. They have no right, I'll tell you the information - in 2006 there were 96,000 refugees in the Commissioner for Refugees. This year, according to the Commissioner, it's about 67,000. But the Serb refugees who have refugee status have to go to Croatia to get a place here. The vast majority of Serbs must not go there, especially the male population involved in war conflicts, a large number. According to my data in the Federal Ministry of Interior in 2003 and 2004, there were about 150,000 Serb refugees seeking citizenship, to get a ID card and residence, as it stands here in the provisions of this law. There are now hundreds of thousands of demands in the MUP and the question is when will these demands be resolved? This is where we said it, right from the established date, the right is exercised. Anyone who doesn't have a place of residence can't exercise that right. A large part of the refugee population will not be able to achieve it. I urge you to think this through. We did not exercise those rights in the Republic of Croatia - those rights must enable us to get them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14097	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let the MP of the people be prepared Vladan Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14098	Thanks, somebody forgot the pen, I'm an honest finder, I'll come back. I'll talk about these two laws for a few minutes, we'll talk about the details in the amendments. You, Mr. Vice President, said in the opening statement that in 2001 the Privatisation Act was passed, and on that occasion you said who voted in favour of the law. To help you, you didn't exactly say - against the Privatisation Act only the SPS voted in principle and in general. So that's important. This is already several amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, several times extending the deadline. If you had time now, I know you don't have time, so if you look at the amendments that the SPS wrote in 2001, you'd see that later in three changes and additions, you'd have incorporated several solutions that we made in 2001. Now I give you free advice - when we write the amendments, accept them immediately because it costs less all of us, taxpayers, and makes better solutions for the citizens of Serbia. That's how it was with the law, you were the finance minister and authorized representative for the Public Procurement Act, and not to mention, there are several others. So it's not hard to accept a good amendment. When you get over it in politics, then you become a responsible politician and become a responsible authority when you accept a better solution than you suggested, no matter who signed it, and then it's a completely clean position. Well, that's the way it is, since you're going to be a government for a long time, I believe you'll learn, we'll do everything we can to make you an opposition, and that's legitimate and nothing is disputed. When amending the Privilege Act, I will only comment on one thing, and this is an effort to make so-called. I can no longer buy businesses in the privatisation process with dirty money. I didn't bring any paper here, but I recorded it late on my margin law. It's late, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because a huge number of businesses in Serbia have been bought with dirty, bloody money by some of them, because there are a huge number of people who couldn't prove in any normal country that they've earned any money, so some of these people have become the owners of enormous social wealth. Today, they manage large systems, and in doing so, the state is virtually impossible to control in any way how they do so. That someone doesn't get it wrong, there are honest people in Serbia who buy companies and work well. So we congratulate them and worship them to the black land. Anyone who bought a company, who acquired their capital legally, who, based on the Privatisation Act and under the privatisation contract, respected all the elements of the contract, the social programme, investments, etc., once more, I will repeat - we bow down to the black country. But we're not talking about this minority here, but we're talking about those people who bought huge systems, huge areas of the country, I'm talking about agricultural land, who became owners of the Latifundi, who bought mills, who bought sugars, who bought many other things in Serbia, they can't prove that they earned no dinar. On the Privatisation Committee, I took this topic with Mr. Vlahovic when Lukoil was buying Beopetrol. Mr. Vlahovic then said - it is important for us to buy it, at this point it is more important than what money it buys. I don't know how Lukoil made money and I don't do it, but I'm only talking about the principle, etc. If this is an attempt to wash off an unclean conscience about this, I don't mind, but I'm telling you again - it's too late. It's too late because I remind you... Can you from the Democratic Party not hang around while the MP speaks. I'm really sorry, I'm speaking to the Deputy Prime Minister on matters that I'm very interested in. You can sit at the DS Executive Board meeting at the MP's club, at lunch, etc., and talk to them until they're ready. So, just please, it's not fair, you have all the time, Mr. Djelic of this world for DS. You're not listening to me, impossible, you can't do six surgeries at the same time, I totally know that. Please, it's very important here now that we tell what is being achieved here. Here, I'll wait for Mr. President, you stop the time, when they're done talking, I'll continue. So the elemental decency requires it. So, for every law I prepare seriously, I represent a serious political programme and serious political ideas, and today I have the honour to speak among other things on behalf of the Independent Union of Serbia and on behalf of the political programme of the SPS. So, there's nothing Rajko Baralic says here, but all these people say, one million people at the same time. So we'll see what you accept from the amendment and if we can vote for this amendment and supplement. As for this second part, which is to say shorter, Colloquially already in the press is called the law on free action, the basic law gives it the right. The privatisation law says that officials, workers, peasants and honest intelligence that does not have the opportunity to work will receive their actions once the privatisation process is completed. It is not an exclusive right that now gives an amendment to this law, but I want to say it is the law put on the agenda of the National Assembly precisely because of what you just said. Since you weren't here yesterday, I was talking about it yesterday, so it's completely repeated in cyclical, let's say, spaces, when it's a campaign, you have it. I repeat again publicly, will you, I speak as a government, now amnesty of the prisoners, it's a promise from that campaign, will you reregister the Montenegrin plates, Colloquial, it's from that campaign, will you return the denationalized property, it's from that campaign, will you open the police file, it's from that campaign, and will you give free action, it's from this campaign? That's five things. If you wish, we welcome and inform you that the SPS has already voted to open police files on the Security Committee. I'm breaking up with you, Mr. Vice President, about the provision of a bill that mentions the electoral list. You strongly criticised in 99 that Serbia does not have a single voter list. Some of your current coalition partners stole a disk that is a voter list from the RIK and promised that as soon as they became power, it would happen in Serbia. Here, it hasn't happened yet, and it's been seven years. So how many years does it take? Here, I admit, we didn't have a single polling list, shame on us either. You've been in power for seven years, and you don't have a single voter list. If you had one, and that's your election promise in 1999, you wouldn't need a provision in the law that every citizen who's listed in the electoral list is exercising this right and besides that's unconstitutional. We will see how the Legislative Committee will respond to this because the electoral list exclusively serves to ensure that citizens of the full-time Republic of Serbia, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, exercise the right to run and vote, and there is no third. In addition, the state is responsible for forming a voter list. I remind you that 30 years ago, the state of Serbia introduced a unique home number when almost no one in Europe had it. It's a great base so that based on it, you can do whatever anyone wants to do without being infallible. If it was the idea to help illiterate citizens like they have, socially endangered citizens like they have, and they are not listed for any reason in the electoral list, of course, I have reason to note that it is flirting with one of the voices that you are interested in, and it is my right to tell you and to tell you that it can be done without this provision in law and it is not in accordance with the Constitution. No one under that right can exercise that right, nor can anyone lose this right if it is not included in the voter's list, it will be obtained in every serious court if it enters the appropriate court process. So, I understand what your intention was. We may also vote for both of these laws, for this one on free action certainly because you are already our amendments in the form of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia promised to accept. It is not true what Mrs Grubjesic said, that the government has already accepted. No, we wouldn't object, but the government wrote amendments like ours, and it didn't accept amendments to the G17 or amendments to the SPS. But okay, we'll see how things develop. I can't wait to see the Legislative Committee tomorrow at 12:00, see how it goes there, and then we're going to get the amendment, and we're going to explain each and every one of us, we're going to give appropriate examples. If key amendments are accepted, we can vote for both one law and another, if not, of course, then we have neither obligation nor political need, which, of course, we do not want to challenge anyone in any way this right to receive it under the law, to take advantage of it. Just one more sentence. Recently, a number of MPs had the opportunity to see what Czech voucher privatisation looked like. I don't have time to elaborate, so then you can see, I'm not sure what the theme here is, that a skilled tycoon can buy in just three months practically three-quarters of the country's social wealth. We should be very careful about this because it is possible for different things to happen. In the end, if you really don't want to sell 51% of strategic public enterprises, we welcome it, but if you will, I now inform the citizens that these 1000 euros you will now give them will be paid through the electricity price in a year as soon as the EPS is privatised. I inform you, Mr. Vice President, that one of the directors of Serbia's power grid today, that's your public firm, when I say yours, so you're the government, has so much pay that you can't cover thousands of charged average electricity consumption in Serbia. His salary, Mr. Vice President, is exactly what I've told you now, and your party's head and president, who is currently Boris Tadic, has a salary of 120,000 dinars. Again, I ask everyone in Serbia, how is it possible that in public enterprises, and some of them such as NIS, they declare their salaries to be a state secret and inform the Administrative Committee that this is so, how is it possible that they can do so and how is it possible that their work is more valuable than the job of the head of state? I'll never understand that, and I'll never accept it. In that sense, I ask you to do something about it and that these people who have only the obligation to go to one meeting in three months and receive, as in Telekom, 200,000 per month, the President, and 160,000 members of the Management Board or 140,000 in the Post Office and elsewhere, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14099	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14100	I want to say first, Mr. Baralic, and I would also like to tell Mr. Buha of the SRS that there is no form of adjudication on the part of the government, that if we are already going in this direction, I really want on behalf of the Government that all MP groups support this law, because, as we said, it is not this property and property that formed one political party or this government. This is about the accumulated effort of several generations of our citizens. It's just that it's quite fair, they were citizens, let's say, it's hard to discuss and break up all the ends that existed at the time of SFRY, who financed what, it's a big story and the whole process of succession deals with this issue and a lot of major difficulties are happening, which is at the level of the state, which is at the level of the citizens. I want to say that there is no scarcity, that you are simply right, Mr. Baralic, for the last seven years, as far as I've been doing this job, there have been good ideas of the SPS and you've been right about the Public Procurement Act and, yes, we have suggested, remember, a year and a half later that our bidders have an advantage of 20% in price and that advantage and today there is. In that sense, how can I tell you, several parliamentary groups have proposed almost identical amendments and the government is not entitled to any copyright, but I think we all had something that was valuable and it was social dialogue. I don't believe that the SPS has a monopoly on that dialogue, or you're authorized to propose the Independent Union, maybe it was some time in the '90s, but it's gone. The unions addressed all the political parties, as far as I can see, in this home, the left party, such as DS and SPS, but also the right party, such as G17 plus. Basically, what's important is that we found the right measure through social dialogue. We all agree that it is better for all employees and former employees in public enterprises to exercise 200 euros in shares per year of work experience and capital ratios to the estimated market value before privatisation. That's what we agreed on, and that's good. The second thing that we agreed on is that those who work today or who have spent a good part of their working life in public enterprises, and eventually have achieved some rights in a social enterprise, will be able to exercise rights similar to the number of years they effectively spent working in public enterprises. I think if you proposed that amendment that's good, the G17 plus suggested it, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed it, and I think we have one consensus here. As far as refugee status is concerned, here we have consulted, I just want to say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that if we don't think that in this text it's possible for those who have refugee status and we know that there are different situations, the government is ready to consider both possible and the amendment tomorrow on the board, in such a way that refugees are not punished twice, in a way that they cannot exercise their rights in the former SFRY and that today they cannot exercise rights as other citizens of our country. Of course we're going to do it that way so we don't open up the space, and I'm sure it's absolutely possible, that there are no irregular situations, but I think we're a sufficiently decorated country, that even those who have refugee status, are arranged and ready with the Refugee Commissioner to open both this programme and them. So there's no doubt about it. We want refugees, enough suffering, enough problems, it's time for one positive thing in our country to be completely open to them. Thank you very much. I invite you to consider with us all together, there have been certain proposals, there is Mr Meho Omerovic, who has proposed one amendment, which in one part was not possible, but let's rewrite, Mr Buha, let's make together an amendment that tomorrow's committee will accept so that refugees fully participate in this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14101	Thank you. Replica, MP Rajko Baralic. Let the People's MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14102	Mr. Vice President, we don't have a problem with who will, which is why the government will accept the amendments that we're talking about. It is important to us that these amendments be accepted. Of course it was important to us and to announce all this. I didn't say that we have an exclusive on behalf of the Independent Union, but I said that we speak among other things in the name of the Independent Union. It's an entirely pure formulation, because I don't want to do any union and political damage to them that way either. It's hard times and I choose very carefully words, otherwise it's not unknown here, when I'm talking about things that need to be precisely defined. If, now, this is a concrete response, the MPs accept or your amendments, I am talking about amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or ours, we will vote in favour of the law. And as for what Mr. Buha and you're talking about right now, I'm just asking that internally displaced persons don't stay here deposed in any way, and then we on the board, our board members, vote for this, and then we could vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14103	Thank you. Mr. Buha, you have a replica, too. Since the list was made at the beginning of the debate and it is correct that people on the list speak in order. All the others you turn on later you'll get a word in the end. I think it's fair, so after Mr. Buha speaking MP Vladan Vukevic, then MP Sasa Valjarevic, and then we go in order as agreed. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14104	As far as refugees are concerned, just a little more clarification. Since I've been studying the conflict agreement, we have plenty of space in the conflict agreement to build this right that's acquired. So every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has achieved this right on the basis of this agreement. He's in an undefined state today. Why? Because some have lived here since 1991, they have acquired or have not acquired the right. There are cases even today that came here in 1991 and they haven't received citizenship, yet in some fog, in some undefined state. We have an annex G of the conflict agreement that speaks of private property and acquired rights. We can make it happen within him. We always forget that this is the right resulting from the Agreement on Sucession, a citizen, a Serb who has achieved in Croatia and in the fight between one Successor and another, we must transfer that right to Croatia. So, he's going to make it happen here, but don't let, like all the rights stemming from refugee status, fall all over the Republic of Serbia. That's got to flow over there. You do this when you're through this commission of the Republic government about the succession, you have to beat it up for each other, you have to coordinate it with each other, so no one else gets hurt. The Serbs remain damaged, our property is there, huge. We have some data that it's 30 billion euros. Where are the lost rights? Where is the fair fee resulting from the agreement on normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, etc., not to spread. So I think we have enough space to build it in now. We can take this right very lightly because we have a material agreement, that is, a material right arising from this agreement. Furthermore, as regards temporarily displaced persons, we have in Article 2. The draft law on the right to free action, we have in point 3 of point 1 that on 30 June 2007, they had a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the status of a temporary displaced person from Kosovo and Metohija. This residence does not have its own form, it is important that it has gained the status of a temporarily displaced person from Kosovo and Metohija. The question is, have they all achieved that right? By some incendiary, when there was an exodus and eviction from Kosovo and Metohija, people came here, they have a residence there, and here they have a residence. I don't know if we need to seriously think about them, too, if it's enough to formulate what's here is the status of a displaced person from Kosovo and Metohija and here to see that we don't throw out someone who objectively has this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14105	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, today this assembly is discussing two very important laws. When it comes to privatisation, above the privatisation law, it always causes controversy among MPs, of course, among Serbian citizens. Serbia is one of the last countries to start and start the transition. I think the last thing she started was good and bad. It is good for one simple reason that we have had the opportunity to see bad experiences of countries in the environment and that these bad experiences of privatisation do not happen in Serbia. That's good, and it's bad that we started last and we didn't finish the privatisation process, we didn't finish. What citizens rightly resent, and about privatisation, believe that it was not real, that it was not fair in some previous period. Surely you can never make honest and realistic privatisation to make everyone happy, there are always those who are satisfied, those who are less satisfied and today in Serbia we have enormously rich people and enormously poor people. Usually they are enormously wealthy people, it is reality, it is a picture of Serbia, those who have managed in a cheap way, and perhaps through insufficiently clear legal alternatives come to large, enormously large resources and firms in a very short time and in a simple way. DOS may have made the biggest mistakes because the pressure at the time was at the privatisation of the most successful companies or those with a good perspective. So let's just think of six of the cementists that were privatized for only six euros or six dollars or something. How much? Three cements. Sugars in six, sorry. Sugars are for six, and cements were more expensive, but certainly not in real value. I remember very well when this privatisation was, just today I was listening to some report that sugars are the most prospective job in Serbia and the most successful companies. I remember at that time, Carlos had an auction of her clothes, so these clothes, I don't want to count which were more expensive than six sugars. Of course, this has caused great doubt among citizens and controversy that it is simply not good and that it is not good for both the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. The story of the new owners and the people who bought these companies was very suspicious and then you see some anonymous name that came up, got money from the grandmother, from the aunt, from the father, from the uncle, from the friend abroad, simply that man can't believe how many people are willing to do to some people, to lend them money, and in fact it was, that's what many MPs said, about the dirty money that was washed up in a very specific way. And that is why this law is now that regulates this good law and New Serbia MPs will vote, but there really is one remark that this law should have been passed long before, because we think that a lot of that dirty capital has already entered Serbia. When it is said here that it simply does not want that dirty money to go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately in some previous budgets, that dirty money has entered and it is an insult to many citizens who have spent years out of their own personal income to build these companies. We New Serbia and New Serbia MPs are absolutely for privatisation. We believe that this privatisation process should be completed as soon as possible, but not at all costs. What really needs to be regulated, perhaps by a special law, which is that those who privatised companies pay commitments to the state and that's very important. Very often, big companies are mentioned here and talk about them, whether in one legal way or in an illegal way they have come to these funds. I must say my own opinion and my position, I think that in the previous period, Serbia was robbed in a legitimate way, precisely by the fact that there was always a decision, there was some law, there was some act, but many came to great wealth, so they became enormously rich overnight, and of course many in Serbia became enormously poor because they had lost their jobs and of course had no basic means of living. The problem of these laws, including the one now being passed, is how and how the funds from privatisation will be invested. In many local self-governments where, ultimately, there are these business entities, i.e. The facilities pollute these environments, and local self-government only has 5%, which we think is very small. On the other hand, we have brought in the Constitution for a balanced regional development, so it would be normal for these funds to go to a good part of privatisation in a balanced regional development, that we do not just happen to have two Serbs, one poor Serbia, one rich Serbia, that we have a rich capital, rich Belgrade, where three million people will live, and of course, one poor Serbia, and that's all that's out of Belgrade. We today, as I said yesterday, have a situation that many from Serbia's periphery, central and southern Serbia, means from the province, as popularly said, and do certain jobs, come here to Belgrade, because only here can the capital be reversed, there is a market and there is work here, and on the edges of central and southern Serbia, Šumadija, there is simply no chance of profit. That's why we think that this law came maybe in a period where it's significant, when it's supposed to privatize public enterprises and it's meant to protect that property from being bought again by those people with blood, dirty money, people who have a lot of crimes behind them, people who have a suspicious past. New Serbia's MPs will accept and vote in favour of this law. We regret that such provisions of the law had not been passed much earlier, and precisely for the reason that what happened was that companies that had been built for many years had put their sweat, their work, their work, they had given up, they had paid off self-debts, free diaries, Saturdays, Sundays, etc., and in the end it ended up in the hands of some people for terribly small money, as I cited an example of these sugarcanes for about six euros, dollars, etc. The second law, which is also very important for Serbian citizens, is the bill on the right to free action, the cash compensation citizens make in the privatisation process. Here, of course, it is said, and this law in public today may cause the most controversy among citizens. Many workers, including unions of public enterprises, were in a way not to involve all citizens in obtaining free shares. New Serbia's MPs absolutely advocate that just about all citizens get involved in getting free action. That's the only fair thing. Why is it only fair that all citizens get involved? It is precisely because all citizens and participated in the construction, of course, and in the formation of these public enterprises. Let's see how the citizens did it and how each citizen personally participated. As for certain companies, you couldn't decide to get electricity until you paid the bill for your house. Every citizen had to pay the bill to get electricity. When you wanted to enter the phone, everyone had to pay the post office, so they had to pay every meter of cable as soon as they passed a certain length, I think that's 100 meters. If you wanted stronger power, you had to pay for the trans-station, cable, and even for a while, a lot of free diaries, Saturdays, Sundays were made to make these public enterprises the way they are. Many also participated in all the assets you had to pay for getting the counters, cables, etc. it became the property of these public enterprises. That's how the citizens deserve everyone to get those actions now. No matter what certain trade unions thought, including public workers, that it should belong only to them to belong to it, there will never be real justice and the truth that everyone is simply satisfied. Rightfully, those citizens who have worked for 40 years have the right to be angry, and maybe they passed away three or six months ago, a year ago, because they can't get their heirs, too. They have the right to be angry. I think this law, however, has relatively corrected certain irregularities and there will be some justice. But Mr. Rajko Baralic said some things, as an MP, I have to agree, I don't see why we condition certain things. What we can present as perhaps a certain irregularity related to this law, why now the citizens of Serbia, young people, condition that they must be on the electoral list? First of all, it is not an obligation for citizens to apply, it is an obligation for local self-government to enlist citizens in the electoral list, and whether a citizen will go to elections or not to go to elections, that is his democratic right, and I see no reason why it must be a condition. I think Mr. Baralic was absolutely right. No one will be able to challenge a citizen who is 18 years old without receiving free action just because he has failed to meet one of the conditions and has not entered the voter list. I think that, in some ways, it is right for certain people to suspect that perhaps there is some political calculation, that if this happens by the end of the year now, those people who have proposed this law will be nice. This law was proposed by the government, passed by the Assembly, adopted by all MPs. I am sure that many opposition parties will vote for this law. There may be absolute agreement, and I do not see any single reason why there is no absolute agreement on this law on the division of shares of citizens of Serbia, because, as a man, I think our New Serbia parliamentary group, and as far as I see other parliamentary groups feel the same way – that citizens should get it, with small shades, and these nuances are in amendments that MPs have submitted in certain variations to what needs to be changed, perhaps to shape the law or to make a better balance of justice. I think it's always, when it comes to laws like this, very difficult. Whether it is said and said here in the law that each citizen will receive thousands of euros and that 150 thousand employees will receive four thousand euros each. What is very important, it is important that what happened in the surrounding countries does not happen – that the value of these actions may not then be worth a bottle or two beers. That can't be allowed. In some ways, this value, which is envisaged and said -- those thousands of euros and these four thousand euros, should be protected in some way, because simply that money should be given to citizens. It's about big money, it's about very important and important public enterprises that need to be privatised. What New Serbia's MPs believe is simply, and this is the same example from the surrounding countries, public enterprises are the enterprises that should be last privatised. Simply, all those mistakes made during a previous period must be ironed and must be avoided in the privatisation of public enterprises. because all citizens participated in the construction of these companies and must not be allowed to come to enormously large gatherings with the privatisation of these companies tomorrow that will burden each citizen's pocket individually. What I will finally say is that we believe that these laws are in the interests of Serbian citizens, that we sincerely hope that they will be implemented in accordance with the letter of the law and that any manipulation will, on any basis, be avoided by one and another law and that we will do this law to the satisfaction of the citizens. The MPs of the NS will vote in favour of both laws seeking to correct the injustice, which may have been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14107	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Nikolic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14108	Mr. President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two laws, a bill on amendments to the Law on Privatisation and a law on the sharing of free action. I will refer first to amendments and amendments to the privatisation law. I have to correct you, Mr. Djelic, because I consulted with colleagues who were MPs in 2000, in the term when you were minister, that the SRS did not support the privatisation law in 2001. Maybe in her presentations she just said that there are some parts of the law that may be better than it was before. But she didn't support this law, so it's not exactly the information you brought here at the pay phone. As for privatisation itself since 2000-2001 until today, Serbian citizens have been able to see how all these companies are privatised. Over 2,000 companies are privatized, of which a very small number has continued to work. All those companies that were privatised sold out all that property that could have been sold out, workers were left without a social programme, left on the street, lost their jobs, so we now have over a million unemployed in Serbia. A colleague, Vukadinovic, mentioned that there was a break in privatisation in 280 enterprises in Serbia. That's not accurate information, much more, and there'll still be more. You know when? When the SRS comes to power, we'll use travel methods to verify all privatisations. I am also a member of the Privatisation Committee, the SRS is not involved in the Committee's work, because the president of the Privatisation Committee is from the same party as the minister, which is from G17 plus, but we are closely monitoring all privatisations that are being carried out in Serbia and which are now under way. We even pointed out some privatisations, so they were prevented, especially when restructuring occurred, what you mentioned in the electricity industry. I'm going to give you an example of five restructured companies in the electricity industry in Kostolc, where one of Rio's companies was supposed to be privatized, so when we intervened behind this pay phone, the privatisation of Rio was hitched. Because as many privatisations have been made in Serbia, where the unrealistically estimated value of these companies is, so has been tried in this company. A lot of these privatised companies have been closed or resold after these privatised companies were re-sold. I see that here in the law you have included a ban, in Article 12, point 4, on persons convicted and against whom the next crime is being conducted, so you have listed crimes against the economy, official duty, serious murder, theft, etc. I think you're too late, that you should have done it a long time ago, because when the SRS pointed out that many from the criminal mile purchases of various businesses in Serbia, that I should not start picking up large agricultural combinations - the stern product, etc., who bought all this, one of these agricultural combinations was bought in Braničevsky County, and many companies that never went back to work were bought, but are now bankrupt and closed. A lot of people lost their jobs back then. There's a lot of dirty money, and there's a lot of money that's been obtained illegally in many of the budgets that you've been making since 2000 to today. And now in this budget, where the debate is over and it's about to be adopted, there's been a lot of dirty money because all the privatisations are over. By privatising these 2,000 companies that have already been privatised, we ended up in Serbia with the privatisation of these smaller enterprises. These big systems that are now next in line, it's a big bite for our tycoons in Serbia, these are huge bites where powerful world firms will fight, both Gazprom and all other powerful global companies that will participate in the privatisation. I believe that these privatisations will still be much more realistic, I know of many companies where tenders were being staged, how some individuals represented certain people who were on the other side of the law and instead bought these companies at various auctions, where they afterwards only appear as owners. Then we hear that in that city and that criminal bought it, that there are so many and so many companies in that city, that the maltenes became in certain local environments the masters of these local self-governments. When we warned all of this, you said it was politics, that we didn't think well of the citizens of Serbia, but that we just wanted to get political points. You can see that you've come to that and now you've put it on. That's good, but we think it's too late now. What else would I have to say about the privatisation law? In this law, it is said that the entire privatisation process allows the liquidator or the Agency to implement the privatisation. We had an example of the latest arrest of the complete mob, as they call it, the garbage mob, where they conducted an unreal assessment of the capital of these companies, these companies, and where they bought a lot of social enterprises that were in the privatisation process, where these many bankruptcy managers who participated in the privatisation were arrested. You allow them to continue to do so by this law, so we will not have control over the privatisation of any other companies that have remained, which are now in the privatisation process. For Sartide, I think enough has been said all these months and days. Various feljetons come out, various information is obtained, and we have received complete documentation as the privatisation of Sartide was made. We will talk about it when the elections are over, when Mr Nikolic is elected president of Serbia and when we start clearing up and checking all privatisations from 2000 to 2007, and then we will provide complete information, so that it is not just a pre-election campaign. As this budget is pre-election, so these laws are rightly targeted, that they are now being passed, before the elections themselves, and also the latest headlines on this law on free action - we to you actions, and you to us votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14109	I thank Mr. Valjarevic. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14110	Dear President, the Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, unfortunately, have a very short time left, but I want to confirm that these are two very important legislative projects, amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act and free share of actions. I don't think there's any privatisation that's not painful. Also, there is no particular commentary in 1997, and 2001, and the changes and additions that followed in 2005, that there was no good intention to implement privatisation in the right way. In addition, the Assembly confirmed this, so we cannot condemn certain options in that part, that there was no good intentions in the privatisation process. Unfortunately, like everywhere in the environment, there have been many deviations here. Experiences gained from the first law further sought to repair certain irregularities that were within the law. I think the accumulated experience is this right now, which is what we're giving through these changes and additions. However, I would like to point out one danger that could follow, and it is another 700 companies that need to be privatised very quickly in 2008. I don't mean public enterprises. It's about huge capacities, it's about companies that are mostly processing facilities and complex by organization, and that will be very difficult to sell in a short time. It should be cautious, not so hasty, that companies with good chances, above all marketable, will not be recklessly brought into a situation that through one, the other or the third tender will not be privatised and come into the privatisation process. I think there may be serious regional problems, and I think we can unnecessarily throw out another large number of workers to lose their jobs, and in fact, that's not necessary. I believe that the experience that has been gained so far will be a reminder that such situations do not occur. Anyway, if we're talking about this unfair privatisation, it's also been in that without sufficient background checks on the resources of certain customers of our companies, we've been checked, but now we're in a position not to get into this situation. I think it's probably going to define a lot of things through the amendments, how to solve the problems. I think we're too fair to the former SFRY Republic. We now say, the property that will be sold, it's good to do so, to keep it in special accounts, in order to resolve the problem in the process of succession. However, we have a situation that Serbia's assets in other republics of the former Yugoslavia have been sold and that the owners of that capital are very difficult to reach their assets. I think those assets could be in some succession, in compensation for the owners of capital in those countries, right from the sale of this property that comes to this. I think it's a good thing that now it's predicted not to repeat tendering procedures, auctions, etc., but that if there is a misunderstanding and that the first buyer who does not provide the terms of the contract with the Privatisation Agency comes next, that another buyer who can continue the bargaining process. When it comes to free share law, I think from the moment we discussed privatisation, the SPS has long been for the concept of privatisation. The SPS believes it is necessary that all citizens who participated in the construction of the country, generations who did so, should share that part of the privatisation cake. It is good that the time has come for over 4 million citizens of this country to be able to secure one part of the possession of that social capital. Of course, I can't help but say that there is still some injustice, because it doesn't matter who created that capital for 30-40 years and who turned 18. It may have been possible to think about it a little bit, and make some small differences in incomes, but probably because of the speed and need for a good portion of the population, who still sees the perspective in some sort of solving their social problem by these means, to make this happen as soon as possible. Since my time is running out, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14111	There's five minutes left. Next up is National MP Nadica Momirov. Please blend in at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14112	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on free division of actions, which we are discussing today, is in fact the realisation of the possibility provided by the Privatisation Act since 2001. The free share in privatising public enterprises has been discussed since 2001. During the term of office of the last government, and also during the government's mandate, the public, that is, has intensified issues related to the privatisation of public enterprises. The privatisation of companies has been accelerated this year, and it is clear that the privatisation of these large public enterprises will also be current. Since these were social enterprises, given that citizens participated in the creation of these companies, it is fair and clear and it is understood that citizens should participate not only in the decision-making process in which the privatisation of these public enterprises will take place, but also in the privatisation process itself. Practically, the public debate on this issue has been going on since 2001. The union agreement process has also been carried out and we are witnessing that the unions participated practically in this process until the start of the debate in principle on this bill. Based on all these discussions, also negotiations and agreements with trade unions, a bill was drafted by the economy ministry and regional development headed by Mr Dinkic, who heads the ministry. I'm not going to talk about the details of this bill, because we've had a chance to hear about it already. I'll make only a few comments and facts. As we had the opportunity to hear comparisons about the privatisation of public enterprises in the surrounding countries, we had to hear examples from Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary and Romania, it is clear that this bill on free share of actions has not been made in any of these countries. He's specific and original to our country. This procedure will not give some vouchers without cover, but real money through action. Also, with this bill of law, we are trying to correct the injustices of the past, if at all possible, but also to strengthen citizens' motivation to restructure and privatise public enterprises. All who have not received free shares in the privatisation process so far, this law gives them the right to do so. This implies that they will have to register and thus show interest in taking these actions. The most common objection to the bill is the fact that everyone gets the same, and that's especially the case for those who have longer working hours. These are citizens who have worked for years, saved their taxes and saved their lives in the development of our society. From their point of view, it is clear that they see this injustice. However, we cannot forget our younger citizens who, because of everything that was happening to us in the 1990 ’ s, were not able to realize their plans and dreams. We should give them a chance, because what happened then was injustice. If they get a chance, it is understood, of course, that they will be able to realise at least part of some of their plans that they had at that time, and also have the motive to continue to participate in the development of this society and to stay in Serbia. Free action is also a motive for removing a veil of secrecy in business through the process of restructuring and change of ownership and privatisation of public enterprises. As a result, we will have increased dynamics during privatisation, and we will also be at the focus of financial centres, and we will speed up foreign direct investment, which in the coming period will exceed all the records we have had or haven't had until today. All in all, we should reach some record level from the start of the transition. Once again, the privatisation of public enterprises has to happen, the sooner the better. All citizens will participate in the privatisation process and the process is transparent. For all of this, I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this bill on free division of actions, as will the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-13-0.u14113	I thank Mrs. Nadica Momirov. This is where we stop. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. He's starting with People's MP, Momchilo Duvnjak. I'll give you the information right away, and tomorrow we'll also be working till 20.00 hours. Saturday and Sunday aren't working and we'll continue on Monday.
