ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13650	I am opening the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was called for Monday December 10th 2007, i.e. after the end of the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 149 MPs. Please establish the quorum. I find that the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, so that we can move to decision-making on the agenda points. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Monday, December 10th 2007, i.e. after the end of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, means within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 24, 26, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3 December 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2007. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to the minutes of this session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 24, 26, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3 December 2007. For 130 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 24, 26, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3 December 2007. The sitting session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, on the proposal for an extension of the agenda, on proposals for the merger of the debate and on a proposal for a change in the order of consideration of the points of the proposed agenda. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130 of the 130 MPs present. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Roads be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2008 be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure, with proposals to give consent to the financial plans of the 2008 mandatory social security organisations, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007, as the first item of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law be put on the agenda for the urgent procedure with the republican administrative fees, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 148, they did not vote two out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation made by citizens in the privatisation process, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules for co-operation relating to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the context of the implementation of aid under the pre-accession assistance instrument (IPA), which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, 10 of the 139 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Eighty-one MPs of the SRS parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law to repeal the Law on ratification of the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact (NATO) on transit arrangements to support peace operations, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 28, against 129, one of the 158 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2007 and to be placed on the agenda of this session as the 11th item. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 136, they did not vote 22, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 139, 20 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Laslo Varga, deputy president of the Vojvodjanski MEP Group - LSV, SVM, proposed that Article 90(2) be applied. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia extend the agenda to a new point - the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion, which the MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci submitted to the National Assembly on 19 June 2007. Does MP Laszlo Varga want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 12, against 21, the abstentions of nine, did not vote 115, out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) and Article 149a of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Business Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Paths, and a Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on a Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on Cooperation Rules on Financial Assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Serbia in the framework of assistance under the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA). Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 19 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, based on Article 140(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and the bill on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Does MP Susana Grubjesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 129, 20 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, based on Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that a change be made to the order of consideration of the points of the proposed agenda, by considering points 7 and 8 as points 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda. Does MP Susana Grubjesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 16 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, a proposal to extend the agenda, proposals to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of examination of points, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 130, it did not vote 11, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2008: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) the National Employment Service, (v) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, 3. Proposal for a law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, 4. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for co-operation relating to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the framework of the implementation of assistance under the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 11. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by Parliament MP Nada Kolundzi, President of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic, chairman of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. I ask the National Assembly to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda for the session and to hand it over to the MPs. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. THE year (with the accompanying documents) you received the above-mentioned bill with the proposals for decisions made by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13651	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 94, I propose that the general debate in principle on the 1st point of the agenda, instead of being a total of five hours, be doubled, given the importance of the subject; despite the fact that we are trying to do so as soon as possible, I think it is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13652	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13653	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose, on the basis of what you have already decided, that we continue to work immediately, since clearly Serbia cannot wait. If you think you're gonna get tired, we're ready to keep working, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13654	Since Parliament MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the DS parliamentary group, has proposed a longer debate in principle, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours, I put this proposal to the vote. For 99, against 11, two abstentions, they did not vote 24, out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm opening a review of the proposal. Continuing work today, 11 December 2007, at 12.00 hours. [[The session was suspended at 01.40 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13655	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of 11 December 2007 (The first day of work-continuation) (The session began at 12.05 hours. The chairman of Milutin Mrkonjic, vice president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13656	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I remind you that today at 01.35 p.m., we opened a principled review of the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget with proposals for decisions. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not yet done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, and the MPs to insert their identification cards into the computer. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. Just to inform you that, apart from Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, the sessions are also attended by Mirjana Jovasevic, Janko Guzian and Mirjana Radojevic. Also, on the basis of article 85, I extend the session's work after 1800 hours and not beyond 20.00 hours until the end of this agenda. First item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. THE year (with the accompanying documents) you received the above-mentioned bill with the proposals made by the Government, you received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is 10 hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - 3 hours, 14 minutes and 24 seconds, DS - 2 hours and 33 minutes, DSS New Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica - one hour and 52 minutes and 48 seconds, G17 plus - 45 minutes and 34 seconds, SPS 38 minutes and 24 seconds, LDP - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, parliamentary group of minorities - the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians list for Sandzak - Roma Serb Union - Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 14 minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs 12 minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonimir Stevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I want the public and citizens of Serbia, primarily the people of Kosovo and Metohija, to inform the following: on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, for the Democratic Coalition and for the DS to ask them, is Kosovo and Metohija, its status and its preservation issue of all issues, issue number one? Is today in Serbia, gentlemen of the DS, of national and state interest more important than the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia? It's not for you. For you, the most important issue is the Kosovo and Metohija co-ordinators and district chiefs. It's about the way and time you do it, and you make a scandal and after the November 17th elections, the people have been defined not to go to the KIM elections, and you've proposed coordinators who participate in the temporary KIM institutions. Mr Bogdanovic, your associates, when you were Minister of Agriculture in the Government of Kosovo, were appointed: Zoran Krčmarevic for the Municipality of Kosovo Vitina, on this day is Vice-President of the temporary institutions of the Municipality of Vitina; Srboljub Djokić for the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica is vice-president of the municipality, the Cypriot municipality of Kosovo Kamenica; and Nikolic for the head of the Pomoravsky district, he was your associate then at the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm asking you, on what criteria did you do this? Is the mandate expired, is it a matter of expertise, is it a skill, is it ignorance, is it abuse of position, and how do you staff in the Socialist Party to leave three and change three? The Socialist Party doesn't oppose change, but the way you've done this is maltene scandalous and shameful. How could KFOR and UNMIK be interested and visit Kosovo and Metohija to ask if there has been a change at the Coordination Centre? How does KFOR know at 10.00 that there will be a change? So the people are defined and the people's wish is not to participate in temporary institutions, and now you're bringing these people in and setting them up at a small door. One more thing, let the public know that the co-ordinators of the municipalities, that the public knows, and those presidents of the municipalities have preserved local self-government in the area of KIM. How do you care about these changes when we are at the session of the KIM Committee, there are committee participants, decided that after eight years not to be coordinators as in-house bodies, but to be a municipal council? The evidence that there are two governments in the democratic coalition is that the decision on the resolution and publication in the Official Messenger was signed by Deputy Secretary General Dragisa Blesic and Vice-President Bozidar Djelic. I want the public to know that on Friday at 1:00 p.m. we had a session and a conversation with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica about the submission of the 75,000 KIM declaration, which they signed not to accept the independence of KIM. At the meeting, the prime minister, the prime minister of the government and the KIM minister said they would review the decision, i.e. it will be annulled Thursday. Let's see, we're waiting for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13658	I thank the People's MP, Zvonko Stevic. Alexander Wuccir by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13659	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, party issues and party debates are of course very important at all times and for the state, and not only for political parties, but what I think is most important today, and that is why I went out for the assembly speaker, to give you my opinion and not only as a member of the SRS, but I would say to all citizens of Serbia who share concerns about the future of our country, above all for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, and because of the fact that our competent state authorities are not talking about it, but they are not saying anything and they are not answering any burning questions. I would therefore ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to find a solution, because of the urgency of the issue and because of the importance of the topic I am about to speak about, Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic, or to find some solution, in order to give the best and most competent answer to the pressures to hijack part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, one part of this assembly hall, so those who have managed to make most of Serbia, every day have showered us with the last few years of stories about how the European Union is the most beautiful thing in the world, the unsuspecting dream, the prince or princess to whom we should strive and we have counted, every day you convince us that we have the best possible relations, wonderful relations with representatives, or with the members of the European Union, how these are our biggest friends, the biggest investors in Serbia, and in the end it turns out, we saw it at the EU Foreign Minister's Summit yesterday that these countries, these biggest friends, with the exception of Cyprus, all of us, want to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Here, and today's reports last say to you, who, either for good or for good, are obviously not interested, but for the citizens I will say, the latest reports of the Western media say that a consensus has been reached by the European Union countries, that, even if by force, they will force Cyprus to accept their views and that the European Union is going to support Ahtisaari's plan on supervised independence for the southern Serbian province, and consequently, Mr Mrkonjic, they are imposing the following questions, which I would like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the citizens of Serbia, because there is no more important answer than this. This is the first question I have no answer to, and I don't know the answer of our country -- are we going to agree on the election campaign, Boris Tadic, between the two electoral rounds, scheduled for the second day of St. Sava on January 28th, so for January 28th, you have provided for and agreed with them a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, especially asking DSS MPs, if we are going to sign an agreement and stabilisation with those who take away Kosovo and Metohija, and that as some other country that will accidentally retain the name of Serbia, but without part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Or we will bring some resolution, some other general binding act in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we cannot enter any organisation, body, unless it is clearly stated that both Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia are meant under Serbia. And yes, of course, we cannot accept carrots, as some say - you will get the European Union, give up Serbia. You know, the stick and carrots are for donkeys, not people. I don't mind that they treat us all together as donkeys, but it is ours to show them that we are not donkeys, not because of us, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the people in this country, because of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, because those who today care about Kosovo and Metohija, because they care about their backs policy instead of their country's policy, tomorrow they will do the same thing with the Racan region, and with Vojvodina, both with eastern Serbia and with every other part of Serbia. It is our job today to tell your friends how many millions of euros we have spent on travel only to Massima D'Alema, to Prodi, until I know who, you have convinced us that they have an excellent view of Kosovo and Metohija. How much money we spent convincing them all, in the end we came to it, just waiting for the moment when they would recognise the independence of the southern Serbian province. What's our answer to that, ladies and gentlemen? Should we keep our mouths Let's play silly? Should we have a party fight here today? I don't think that's the answer. I think we owe a serious and responsible answer to give the citizens of Serbia and our people in Kosovo and Metohija what it is that the state of Serbia is going to take. Do not talk about how some offer for Serbia is, so you will enter, you will be, he says, a candidate for entry into the European Union, but we will take little from you Kosovo. You know, I'm gonna kill your kid, but you come to my house tomorrow for a cup of coffee. Then there will be various geniuses, intellectual grotesques, who will tell us -- well, look, what now, a child murdered, we better take that cup of bitter coffee, better than not to take anything. I know there are those in Serbia, there are those in this parliament, and there are few. I respect, I respect the number of people who care more about and bitter coffee than a murdered child, whose bottom is more important than their homeland, but most Serbian citizens are not. Because of those citizens who love Kosovo and Metohija, who love Serbia, who love their country more than anything else and our people's freedom, I demand that parliament plead on this issue and you say what you think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13660	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Vukic. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, a replica to the presentation of Mr Zvonimir Stevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13661	The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of a replica of Mr. Zvonimir Stevic's presentation. I don't think, Mr. Stevic, the DS wants power in Kosovo and Metohija, the DS wants, above all, to take responsibility for the lives of Kosovo and Metohija citizens. I'll just remind you that my participation in temporary institutions was not my personal decision, it was the decision of then late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and SRJ President, Mr Kostunica. Therefore, none of my associates who worked with me at the Ministry of Agriculture in the Kosovo government has been appointed co-ordinator, neither Zoran Krcmarevic nor Djokic. Mr. Djokic is not a member of the DS, Mr. Djokic has run for G17, so I don't think he should look from that point of view. Secondly, I fully understand your frustration, Mr. Stevic, because your best man has been replaced. I may be able to understand that in some ways, but it is not the place and it is not the way to abuse this pay phone and to make such false statements about the co-ordinators, the district chiefs and the changes that took place in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13662	I thank the MP Goran Bogdanovic. According to Business, MP Dragan Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 201. The Rules of Procedure, concerning parliamentary matters and the right of MPs to comment upon the answer received. I asked the Minister of the Interior on 26 September 2007, although according to the Rules of Procedure, the answer should have arrived within eight days, I think. But the way it's better if he hasn't come in the first place. There are still many parliamentary questions I have asked, unfortunately, to this day there is no answer. Here, I will read to the MPs the questions I asked the Minister of the Interior, and you will have the opportunity to hear the answer of the Minister of the Interior. The first question was - how many gold and silver were found in the vaults of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and how many in the vaults of the Bank of Yugoslavia when Mr. Mladjan Dinkic took control of the National Bank of Yugoslavia? The second question - how many valuable art paintings were in the rooms of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in King Peter 12, in the former Boulevard of the Revolution, whose works were found here when the crisis headquarters led by Mladjan Dinkic and how many today? Please don't count this time. How much numismatically forged and paper money from the exceptional historical value was found in the National Bank of Yugoslavia when the crisis headquarters headed by Mladjan Dinkic entered it and how much is this collection today? The fourth question - are some 200 dinar bills first printed and immediately cancelled? Why was it done and how bad is it? The fifth question - are several 10 dinar bills, worth a few million, still in the vault of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Bank of Yugoslavia because the governor, Mladjan Dinkic, still doesn't like the signature because they didn't tell him his first name was coming and then his last name? Because of this fact, the state has suffered enormous damage. The sixth question - did Governor Dinkic break the contract with verified banknote repatriators and conclude contracts with new suppliers, which deliver material of poorer quality, but therefore at much higher prices? The seventh question - how much money was spent on making specials? The eighth question - how many times did the National Bank's leadership travel to Guinea-Bissau and how much money was spent on these trips to get a job that wasn't won at all, but that's why the National Bank, or the state and the citizens of Serbia paid for it, and that's fat? The interior minister answers - this ministry has no knowledge of the issue of MP Dragan Todorovic's parliamentary issues, more specifically this issue was not initiated by an appropriate requirement for the organisation's units to act on the same. It is simply amazing that the interior minister gives such a response when he knows that in June 2006, the government of the Republic of Serbia established immunity to Mladjan Dinkic for the armed incursion of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Now, gentlemen of the Parliament, or citizens of Serbia, after such an answer, it is quite clear what kind of state we live in. All these stories about various mafias, what they show us on television, in newspapers, etc., it's just an attempt to throw dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens, to allegedly show this government and the Ministry of the Interior trying to deal with the most difficult problem, one of the most difficult problems our country has, which is crime and corruption. When you see this answer, you hear these questions, then it is clear to you that there is nothing of it, until the state is dealt with by the biggest criminals in the country, who have robbed this country, which are those in the government today, in the ranks of ministers, and just because they are coalition partners, which would be in question by the government, the Ministry of Interior is not acting in the way that it should, or by law, because there is so much evidence that there is no dilemma in this matter. That's why the only way for this country to deal with crime is for the immediate launch of new parliamentary elections, for citizens to re-election, for them to vote on those they're sure will be affected by this monster. I think that in the first upcoming elections, which are elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will show readiness to deal with this and vote for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13664	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already talked about this subject, but since it's being restarted today, I just want to remind you. It was an agreement with representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia to coordinate all changes in humane terms in Kosovo and Metohija. I fully declare to you that no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia has discussed this with SPS representatives. Even DSS representatives say they were not informed of the changes brought to the government's session of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't about whether or not someone's changed. Each government has the right to a system of prey, i.e. to set up personnel arising from the exercise of power. This is only about one correct relationship. If we today have what is waiting for us in Kosovo and Metohija, is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in conditions where she doesn't know what to do herself, the only thing she knows what to do, is to carry out shifts in Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't matter who's with or who's in a relationship. Some godmothers were mentioned here. If we go with that logic, we'll go a long way to explore who the godfather is on the political scene in Serbia and in business, and of course who's dad. In any case, this is about you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia even leaving some SPS representatives to be coordinators without consulting, you haven't asked anyone from the SPS. Who gives you the right to frame the people of our party? We asked that question. Personally from Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, Mr. Zvonimir Stevic received assurances that this will be corrected. I spoke to the government's top representatives and it was said that this matter would be reconsidered by the next cabinet session. Meanwhile, yesterday in the Official Messenger, solutions already come out. All right, we'll wait for Thursday and the next cabinet session, but it's absolutely inconceivable that at a time when, instead of discussing Kosovo and Metohija, we are dealing with staff issues and are looking for political unity in Kosovo and Metohija. After all, you know well that even some of the conflicts that have occurred in Kosovo and Metohija over the past few days have been the result of the celebrations of some people being replaced by some of our people in Kosovo and Metohija and the conflicts with other state and regional institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. That's a question for you now. Does the Serbian Government know what he's doing and do you keep your word, ladies and gentlemen? Did the SPS propose two of its candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges? So did it occur to you to pick someone? We've given candidates for the Audit Committee, and you're not here either. The opposition is unnecessary to you, you only need the opposition as a decor in Parliament, and you are looking for political unity in Serbia around Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, a session on Kosovo and Metohija is needed. Why? If you will hold a session after all these sessions you have announced, the European Union summit, the UN Security Council, what is the essence of what Serbia will respond to, how will Serbia respond to everything that awaits us? All the measures Serbia needs to take are measures to prevent independence, not to measure post-festum after the declaration of independence. What do you need any measure of independence? Who are you hiding it from? So they don't happen to hear in the European Union that you're going to end diplomatic relations with them? Are you preparing an end to diplomatic relations with countries that recognise Kosovo and Metohija? Why don't you say that now, before they recognize Kosovo and Metohija? It seems to be a state secret, even for those who will. What is our deterrent measure to those who will acknowledge the independence of KIM? Nothing. In the end, I'd just ask a question -- for when is the session about KIM scheduled? We've been looking for this session. She's delaying. What are you preparing for us? A conflict is being prepared within the ruling coalition. Part of the ruling coalition wants to call presidential elections these days. The second part of the ruling coalition requires that elections not be discussed until December 19th. Are you aware of where you're taking the country? Take the country into such a situation that the 15th or 16th will be in the pre-election campaign, in the elections that have been called without the consent of Kostunica, the collapse of parliament, the disappearance of the government, and at the same time we are going to declare KIM independence. (President: I thank the People's MP Ivica Dacic). I thank you, too, Mr. Mrkonjic, but you should no longer worry about the work of this House than those in power. In any case, let them fear for the fate of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13666	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz appeared, and the Messenger of the People, Zvonko Stević, and the Messenger of the people Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13667	According to the Rules of Procedure, of course, Mr. Chairman. I had to report for Mr. Wolf's speech. I know that he has always been well informed and informed, so I did not have a clear question addressed to the DSS MPs, but here is the answer, the Beta Agency said: "The Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has told the EU that Serbia does not accept any compensation in exchange for Kosovo's simple independence. Who has the intention and wants Serbia to be his partner must know that Serbia accepts partnership only as a whole, not a halved state. He also noted that the EU expects Serbia to respect its position that its territory in Kosovo and Metohija cannot come to the EU mission without a new UN Security Council resolution, which would establish a compromise solution to the province's status. The arrival of the EU Mission would mean the launch of the rejected Ahtisaari plan and the launch of unilateral independence. That is why Serbia is most energetic, in advance, rejecting such an illegal decision on the arrival of the EU Mission." I think this is clear. I've never heard any of the coalition partners say otherwise. If we were to hear, of course it would have to be discussed, but this is the position expressed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, elected in this Assembly for Prime Minister. The EU's conditionality policy is something Serbia has accepted. But you know what conditioning policy and what's meant by that. It is accepting certain standards, Serbia has been working backwards for years and it is not controversial. But in this conditionality policy, and this is a clear view of the DSS, it cannot be the kidnapping of KIM from Serbia, because no country that has become an EU member has had to give up its territory through a conditionality policy, so Serbia does not accept it either. In other words, if the EU wants Serbia to join the EU, that kind of partnership and agreement can only be achieved with full and comprehensive Serbia, as it is and as it is known in international law, it also means in line with Serbia's AP KIM. So much for the MP's attitude and the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13668	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. The People's MP, Zvonko Stevic, then the National MP Zoran Krasic, then the National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then the National MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then the National MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure. Mr Bogdanovic, the fact that you did not participate with your will in the provisional institutions, it was a devastating policy of the Serbian state and it experienced a fiasco. The fact that you participated in temporary institutions in the air, on a proposal from the international community and policy at the time, would be good for you to go out and say for the people of Serbia, or for Serbs at KIM, what is it for these eight years, since you were in two terms an MP for the temporary institutions of the Kosovo Assembly, done for the people of KIM? Is their freedom secured? It's not. Is their security secured? It's not. How many people are returned to work, to their jobs in Elektroprivred, in the Amortizers, in the economy, in the economy, in the economy, etc.? How many displaced persons have been returned for these eight years with you and with the international community? It's not even 2%. The famous Return coalition is a shameful act in the history of Serbia's state policy. You were there, you were driving blind vehicles. What did you expect? You expected the International Community to change the course around KIM and that Albanians for allegedly democratic authority in Serbia give up their demand. After eight years, neither the international community nor the Albanians gave up their demands, that's your policy. I asked you and now I ask you - what are you doing? Two governments, two ways, surprise me and New Serbia, as their two co-ordinators in Kamenica have been replaced. And to let the public know, you know, Srdjan Vasic and I are not godfathers, I am Srdjan Vasic's old brother-in-law, it is not the same. To say the reasons for the district chief's shift. The head of the district, Srdjan Vasic, by the Coordination Centre and your bodies has been assessed as the most successful head of the district. Is that the reason for the shift? I am directly asking you, again I have received confirmation, Zoran Krčmarevic of the Kosovo Vitina municipality, asking you, is he the vice president of the municipality of the provisional institutions in Vitina? Yes, it is. Is Srboljub Djokic for the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica a member of temporary institutions? Yes, it is. Has Dragan Nikolic worked at the Ministry of Agriculture in temporary institutions? Yes, it is. What are you doing? You are in such a hurry to replace the coordinators, and we talked to Mr Bogdanović, where your temporary institutions, i.e. the KIM institutions, the Regional Library, museum, management of income, etc. Those frames don't interest you, but you were interested in these, to replace the SPS. One more thing, on the same day, the same moment in the same Official Messenger, says this - Serbia's KIM Co-ordination Centre Co-ordinator: Rados Vulic, the municipality of East, Mico Jakovljevic, the Obilić municipality, at the same time, makes a decision at the same time, and says - they are the co-ordinators of the KIM Co-ordination Centre for the municipality of KIM Rados Vulić for the municipality of East and Mico Jakovljevic for the municipality of Obilić. Where's that? I hope, since we talked to the Prime Minister, that the promises made, we're not socialists against change, we're used to that. One more thing, since 2000 and in the previous term when you were not in the government, when you left the government, you had four co-ordinators who have ruled since 2000 from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13670	I thank the People's MP, Zvonko Stevic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13671	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, these are the members that are constantly mentioned, 225th and 226th of our Rules of Procedure. It is good that these members exist, because it is the only way that the public can find out what would be interesting not only for MPs, but for the entire public in the Republic of Serbia. I have to make a little introduction. Two years ago, the then energy minister, otherwise widely known as a chorus singer in a church choir, now with some miracle minister of religion, signed a protocol in front of TV cameras between the government of the Republic of Serbia and a major Russian company, Gazprom. Under the protocol, the construction of a gas pipeline from Dimitrovgrad via Nis, then towards Belgrade and taking over the main gas pipeline transport, thus including Serbia to engage in the system, in order to avoid Serbia paying for something that is extremely expensive. For example, we pay 32 dollars per 1000 m3 when it goes through Hungary, and Hungarians charge others between 8 and 16 dollars per 1000 m3. Now, by any chance, the implementation of the protocol has taken place, and the Russian side is extremely interested in the realization, because of those not informed, on behalf of Gazprom is interested in Mr. Medvedev. You probably heard this morning that he was going to be Russia's future president. He has been screaming for six months as Damjano Zelenko -- he doesn't know what to do with Popovic, because in his ministry there are two certain gentlemen, one Soldovic and one Sokolovic. Now, this Sokolovic guy has two sons employed at the Moll. And I'm interested in who owns that Moll? Some say Vuk Hamovic and that he's blocking it all now. I'm confused, Vojin Lazarevic, it's the same, I apologize to this Hamovic. If that's the case, let's get the people out of here, let's get out of here. You're insulting the future president of Russia. What the hell are you guys taking care of? How do you run this country? The bear is picking up, I'm telling you to do like Damian's Zelenko - no, and we need to start building. But he can't get along with you. Your soil is terrible. This is amazing, and here full of Kosovo and Metohija, the European Union, and you see that picture you gave Carly del Ponte was bad. I'll take it again, I have a very interesting question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13672	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic, then the MP of the people, Zarko Obradovic, and the MP of the people, Markicevic. The replica goes at the end. Please let the MPs learn all of this Rules of Procedure, at least those two members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13673	Not only two members, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, but from first to last, everyone has to know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13674	I agree, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13675	I am reporting by article 1 which regulates the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, it is my obligation for you, as well as the public of Serbia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro and all those Serbs, as well as other citizens of the entire planet, who are trying on the Internet site, the anti-Serbian Hague Show to monitor the continuation of the trial, which today at 09:00 a.m., and which the tribunal is leading against our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, that you cannot see anything on the website of the UN tribunal of The Hague, the country net or however you connect. There are no tones or images, and in the courtroom where our party's president continues to smash into the UN tribunal's parade today, and the first witness of the National Guard, imagine a certain physicist Antonio Obershal, an alleged hate speech expert. We know how Serbia went under those who trained him and instructed him to speak there. Therefore, there is no possibility that our public and the entire world's public will follow through the internet the continuation of the trial because it is the uncle, which the anti-Serbian Hague tribunal prepared 15 days ago. Namely, when you connect to the site of that quasi-jud, you'll see what's going on and you'll get information in court one, two and three. In court three, imagine, a frozen picture of General Bozidar Delic was taken. There's a man sitting here safe and sound. What kind of laughter, what kind of court is this, what kind of people are you who have been delivering famous Serbs and generals for seven years, officers, soldiers, politicians who fought for Kosovo and Metohija and for all Serbian territories? And you see what they're doing to you? What conditions do they make for you? What Stabilisation and Association Agreement? They're asking for General Ratko Mladic, asking you to crawl in front of them and meet their unspeakable demands. Do you think Serbia will agree to that? Of course not. This unfortunate man today, after speaking all these nebuloses, and I call on all of you and the citizens of Serbia to monitor tonight, the delayed transfer of the trial at the Second RTS Programme, according to the follow-up, or after the end of the session of the National Assembly, I assume it will be at 21.00 p.m. You will see what kind of message Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the president of our party, and indeed today a hero, admired and admired in fact by all people who fight for justice and freedom, will send a message and how they will defend what does not exist, that is, that coin of "hate speech" - as a nonexistent and international law and anything by which anyone today can sanction itself. For what, a verbal delinquent? If the hate speech is that his SRS and millions of Serbian citizens are pushing for great Serbia and for a country where our people will live unhindered, without being oppressed, under conditions and blackmailed like you over the past seven years - then know that this is a clear message to all those who are for freedom, for justice and for the better future of our people. Today, who knows how many times to tell them, I am sure, although I cannot follow this moment, the president of our party - yes, we will fight for the Serbian people, we will fight for our country and we will fight for it to be on its return, and I believe that this will be very soon, in the country, Serbia will go a better path, just as the brotherly Russia is moving, just as all countries in the world are moving, whose people do not agree to blackmail, to underestimation, and that humiliation, but just listen to the voice of their people, as our SRS listens to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13676	I thank National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, who also advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only brief Miss Natasa Jovanovic on what she did not say about the famous witness and the UN prosecutor's expert on The Hague tribunal's prosecution. He is an expert in hate speech, according to his profession is a physicist, and qualifications which, according to the Hague lobby, were sufficient to make known about the Serb people and hate speech -- as well as the study of African tribes for 25 years. It is the best indicator that the Hague tribunal, both the European Union and the way America sees both the Serb people and all of you who are coming in here with all your strength to force Serbia into these Euro-Atlantic integrations. We have heard that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Kostunica allegedly does not accept the unanimous declaration of the Cosmet that has been announced, but we have not heard what he will do if that happens? The message sent by the foreign ministers of the European Union countries is more than clear. When Mr. Shormaz read this statement from Beta, if that's what your Western coalition partners read, they're probably shaking their pants after the firm attitude of Vojislav Kostunica. But we don't hear what he's going to do. We heard a month ago that Serbia is not going to join NATO because NATO is stealing our pact from Kosovo and the Metohija. Here, don't take away our NATO pact. We're being kidnapped by America, kidnapped by the European Union. So these are the countries. Will Vojislav Kostunica go to the pub with those who take away our Kosovo and Metohija? The other thing, what does it look like? You went out here with your cell phone, so you read us the agency news -- he says he said "Beta." Why did Vojislav Kostunica not come to the National Assembly to explain here to the MPs who are the views of the Republic of Serbia, who approved these plans? Who approved those plans? Mr. Shormaz, don't be nervous. Come out for a pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13678	I've got to get MP Dragan Shormaz to stay out of position.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13679	Come out and tell everyone to hear what you're saying. Mr. Shormaz, you can swear to please. Who are you gonna slap? Who? Come out, Mr. Shormaz...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13680	Please stop that kind of conversation, we're serious people. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13681	Mr. Shormaz, that's what behavior tells you. Come out if you have anything to say, come out for the pay phone. Don't swear and don't threaten or at least be brave enough to come out and say it directly as a man. So, you're saying, still coalition partners have not said anything contrary to that statement by Vojislav Kostunica. You've noticed that well - still, since they probably haven't been able to read that statement yet and criticise it, that's to say, to be fenced from it. I think the time has finally come for Serbia to see that we have an SRS here, we have a yellow and we have a yellow party. The only thing a yellow party does is build its image, take votes at the expense of patriotism, but at the expense of false patriotism. You're talking one thing and you're doing the other. Then when you drop your rating below, I don't know if it's 3 or 5%, then you're drilling into your chest and playing patriots again. You know very well, we know about it, and I'm sure that's what the citizens of Serbia see, that when it finally comes to this situation and that you will absolutely do nothing about it. It's a poor coalition in which you're looking for agency news, to inform each other about attitudes. After all, for months...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13682	I thank Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13683	Count it in, Mr. Grouchy...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13684	Here, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13685	So, for more than three months, the leaders of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija have warned us, fearing that there is no reason to make them give up the December 10th declaration of independence. There's no such thing. They don't like independence any more than they do. Here, it turns out it hasn't been these days. What is it that cosmetic Albanians prefer independence? Boris Tadic. Only Boris Tadic. Would anything else make Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Agim Ceku delay this long-declared declaration of independence? Only Boris Tadic. So Boris Tadic is a candidate for Hashim Thaci. Boris Tadic is a candidate for Ramush Haradinaj and all other Albanian terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13686	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Zarko Obradovic, appeared, followed by the replica of the MP Markicevic Miroslav, and then Dragan Šormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, I have come to the attention of the President of the SPS Ivica Dacic and my colleague, Zvonko Stevic, to point out a phenomenon that is completely abnormal for our conditions, and is happening to us. We've been working for days till nine, ten o'clock in the evening. We're exhausting ourselves in a story about a number of amendments to the bill. We talk all the time about things that only have one goal, which is to organise elections for the President of the Republic. Apart from the individual steps of fellow MPs, mostly from the opposition's ranks, the word of Kosovo and Metohija is not heard at all in our parliament these days. It's like some people forgot that word. I say this very openly, clearly and responsibly. The other night, I challenged Mr. Dulic to give us an answer to the question of when the Kosovo and Metohija session will be. We in some plan, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia programme for December, had two sessions for Kosovo and Metohija, so we were informed at a meeting with Mr Dulic. Now one session has given up, and the question is whether there will be others. A man has to normally ask what's going on here. Do the president of the state and the Prime Minister really think that parliament should take no position on the current moment of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status? Are we, as a parliament, superfluous in that story? Are we bothering anyone? Are we perhaps going to ask some unpleasant questions? Are we going to ask questions as to why some make one and others make statements? We're in a situation that literally as one patient we're on an operating table and they're pulling out our heart, and we say, everything's fine. It's all right, it's delayed until tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, everything's fine. They promised us. One minister says we'll respect the Constitution. The second one says, we don't think of using, or threatening, or mentioning the word of an army. Everyone has sworn here in front of us and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Is there really someone in this hall who thinks the National Assembly is a surplus in what is called the state policy of the Republic of Serbia, related to the status of Kosovo and Metohija. We're saying, they didn't agree today; they did, right, they didn't agree today, but they will on Friday. All media are saying that the EU is finished in, past the Security Council and against international law, recognising Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, or as they say, supervised independence. What are we gonna do? We don't know what we're gonna do. We MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not know what the response of the state will be. If there are some things that can't be said publicly, why don't we hold an unpublic session. It is not unknown in the history of parliamentaryism. I guess we MPs can know more than we can read in the paper. Why do initiatives go out in the media first, and then we posteriors find out about it? Fellow MPs, under the circumstances I was in Ranilug with my colleague, Stevic, on Saturday. We had some of our party obligations. What we heard from our party thinkers, and I guess that's what the vast majority of Kosovo and Metohija think, is that they would like to see that there is unity in the Republic of Serbia and to see that the state is behind citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. We'd like them not to hear different statements. We'd like them to feel safe, even if it's verbal, even verbal. But we have a completely different situation, that none of our ministers dare say, I will respect the Constitution and what I have said, which is the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Is it so hard to say, the army will defend the country, even with weapons? So what if Mr. Simic said so? That's logical to say. Some more kill themselves to defuse Mr Simic than to say, the state should react militaryly. Don't you notice this paradox that we live in, that everything is in the way of Kosovo and Metohija? We're discussing the budget today. That happiness was due to be in this home on November 1st and should have been long ago on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was tempered, the first laws on the president, so elections could be called, and now that the budget is adopted...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13688	I thank the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13689	One more sentence, Mr. Grouchy. It really should, Mr. Dulic promised that one session would be on Saturday and the other after the 19th. There's no reason to wait. At least they said, we all agree, the National Assembly has a unique attitude or not, it doesn't matter. If there is a system of division of power, then the National Assembly has its place. If we're bothering anyone, then we should raise our voice against it. We are representatives of citizens elected in the elections, and it is logical that only citizens can express that thought through us, which is that we publicly and clearly tell everyone that the Republic of Serbia will take these measures in case someone unilaterally recognises Kosovo and Metohija. It's not enough, no offense, just a statement from the president and not enough just a statement from the Prime Minister. It is necessary for the Assembly to stand behind such an attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13690	I thank the People's MP, Zarko Obradovic. The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13691	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, in fact a replica and a brief comment on the series of presentations here, and regarding the so-called staffing of the KIM. I welcome all colleagues who have called for unity here and to send a message to the citizens, above all to the Serbs who live on KIM. What was done a few days ago under the auspices of the Government of the Republic is a disgrace and a disgrace. I'm sorry Mr. Bogdanovic isn't here. People in my neighborhood call it chickening. So, one top hypocrite, take responsibility for the kiM one who got 11 percent. In KIM, citizens said in order that they have the most trust and trust most. In KIM, the DSS-NS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica won the coalition, and I trust that man, because the delegation of Serbs with KIM two or three days ago said that he did not know about it and that it was done beyond any procedure and democratic procedure. What Mr. Bogdanovic said here is really a top-notch mess and a disgrace, unworthy of any member of the DS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13692	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13693	I have said more than once after this assembly speaker, but also elsewhere, that to preserve KIM, it is necessary for the state, political and national unity, and therefore I will not react in the way that Mr Nemanja Sarovic deserves me to react. His statement was extremely incorrect and I do not believe that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic would agree with this reaction by Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Vucic here expressed his views and asked the MPs of the DSS. I've answered that question, no hard feelings for any political party, no SRS. Whether the presidential elections will be called, who will take part in that race, who will win, we are not primarily, to us from the DSS at the moment. All we care about is fighting and saving Kim, all together, because that's the only way we can do it. When there's a session about KIM, as far as we're concerned from the DSS, it was supposed to be yesterday, today. The fact that the budget is on the agenda, you know, December 15th is a deadline, the laws should be respected, it will certainly be the first day after that work and session on KIM, there you will be able to ask questions to both the Prime Minister and the Government and everyone else for everything you don't understand. I don't think there should be political acuity at this point, that there is no need to debate, that there is no need to argue, that attitudes are being expressed in the media, but the only right place to make such decisions is, of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whenever the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia made a decision, any document related to KIM, Vojislav Kostunica, as Prime Minister, respected every letter of the document and never gave up on it, you know that too. Therefore, it is certain that the Assembly will declare this in the emerging situation, and that after that, I hope, Serbia will perform uniquely in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13694	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13695	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I appeal to those famous members of 225 and 226, and I will do my best, unlike my predecessor who said everything he said here, my word of honor, I'm good, I just don't know what's happening to me today. I'll start with arguments, so I'd like to ask you to pay a little attention to the part where I read what's written. How do these notified-uninformed work? They've been informed of what's going on in the West, and they have no idea what's going on in their country. Here's an example, an example of a Georgian Russian citizen who has lived in Serbia for nine or ten years. He runs the procedure to get a permanent stay, because a man wants to be a Serb. I talked about him three and five years ago. Now he's got a definitive solution, signed by expert Milan Markovic, the one from last night. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I couldn't ask him, for one simple reason why I think Jocic should urgently arrest this Dulic, our president of the Parliament. You know why? This country is sending an inspection to a construction site, a factory or here or there, and the labour inspection is not sending it to the National Assembly. We worked until half past three yesterday, but at 01.20, probably dazzled by this paper, one lady came out here and combined 16 points to be in the same debate. Okay, she's going to go out and say it's not 16, but four, or more. Please, what's the working time here? A normal man can work eight hours. Who's the one who can work 12 hours a day? Yesterday at 01.20 you finished the session, in my life I haven't heard any faster reading of this synopsis than Dulic did last night, so the sooner he goes with the budget, we wait for the minister, there isn't a man, what he's going to do, he's not Mladjan Dinkic to get used to vampire sessions. That's all Mladjan Dinkic could have done at 3:00 in the morning in jeans and said, "Listen, guys, let's move on. It's total idiotic, but idiotic, not from the Rules of Procedure, but simply fatigue material. Mrs. Hope's had a fatigue last night. She's been hanging around here all day, she doesn't care at all, they came here, right now, the minutes, right now. Wait, guys, let's get the materials, get those 50 kilos of material. I can't be a genius like you. You're able to read 5,000 pages of fine text, I'm not in that position. To return to this Russian, and this security expert Milan Markovic, as chairman of the administrative commission, signed a solution rejecting this man's appeal. Please consider, since I'm reading.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13696	I know, but time's up, Mr. Krassic. How much do you need?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13697	Here, just this much. He says this way: "I hereby declare an appeal for a solution and once again (the last time) renew my request for the approval of a permanent stay in the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that there is a basis for such a solution in the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia", and states members, "I also believe I have a moral right, because I have fought honorably for this country, for which I have a number of confirmations from the Army of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, I declare that I do not intend to give up Russian citizenship and that, after receiving permanent accommodation, I will seek the right to have dual citizenship, because, under Russian law, dual citizenship is possible. If the reason for your refusal (no of those from the DSS) is my repeated demands of my Russian citizenship or that I am not an American or an Englishman, you should make that plain. 'But where the DSS is, look, they're gone, they're gone, they're gone, they're gone, they're not interested. The beloved president, Kostunica, said and all of these political school students said so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13698	Mr. Krasic, you better come back. Don't be mad. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13699	Just two more sentences, you'll find it interesting, Mr. Mrkonjic, and you say hello to Mira Markovic just in case. ''At the same time, if it may be a hidden and unsaid reason for rejecting my demands and if I am rejected again, I declare responsibly that I will leave your country within 48 hours, but at the same time I will use my links in the Russian public and bring out in the means of public informing the relationship of the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia towards Russian citizens. I fought for your country when it was hard for you and no one wanted to communicate with you. 'E, my Felix, beat these Cini. They don't understand about you. "My question is, since Mr Jocic has three times promised to resolve the issue of citizenship and permanent housing, what happened at the relations of Minister Jocic," he mentioned here Jocic, Dusan Prophetovic, Vuk Antonijevic, Sandu Raskovic-Ivić, Miodrag Gordic, all those who advocated, because it is one man who wants to be a Serb. Me to inform Mr. Jocic about what he did with Milan Markovic, since apparently Milan Markovic also received this non-intelligence syndrome.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13700	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing Mr. Shormaz gave up these threats, curses and those threats, I must say again, to the slappers. He's the one who showed that he's the one who's been scarred. He said Mr. Vukic here asked the DSS MPs a question, and they don't know if I agree with him. Of course, I agree with Mr. Wolf. We were the only ones standing. Unlike you, where everyone has their position, we discuss different attitudes at party meetings, and in public we all come forward with the same attitude. When anyone in the SRS gives you an attitude, you and the citizens can know that this is what we Serbian radicals will stand behind to the end. I don't have a hard-on, and I have with most of my DSS colleagues a very correct relationship. It has never been disputed, but it is disputed how many of my DSS colleagues, who are MPs sitting in these benches, are really going to ask about anything when the Kosovo and Metohija issue is resolved. To prove that to you, I'll remind you of the situations we've had in the long history. Remember those moments when Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly. As pleased as the SRS MPs were, as satisfied as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were, so were the DSS MPs. Your heart was full, too. Have you wondered anything about when he was removed, or when Tomislav Nikolic resigned? You're not. Remember when you entered the government. If it were the DSS MPs, would you be in the government today with G17 plus and DS. Of course not, but nobody asked you anything. I would be careful if I were Mr Samardzic, too, watching him make promises to the people in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe he is even sincere, but it is a question of what will happen in 10 or 15 days, and whether he will ask about anything, and whether these promises, which will be made to the Serbian target in Kosovo and Metohija, will be able to keep any of that. In the end, Mr. Shormaz threatens us, he says "will not be able to Tomislav Nikolic win without DSS support". Is that your sincere patriotism? We don't need that kind of support. We're asking for the exclusive support of the citizens. Tomislav Nikolic did not ask for the support of any other political party in the previous elections, only asking for citizens' support. Be assured that this time that support is much greater than it was back then. Have Mr. Shormaz come out for a pay phone and stand openly with those who support Boris Tadic. Once again, this is Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Agim Ceku, Riza Halimi, Ceda Jovanovic. These are people who support Boris Tadic. If this is a society that suits you, come out and say it loud and clear -- yes, we share the political views of Cedomir Jovanovic, Hasim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Rize Halimi, we are against Serbia, not only against Kosovo and Metohija, but also against Bujanovac, against Presevo, against Medvedija, so we want not only Kosovo and Metohija, but also many other areas of Serbia to separate. Go out and say it, but we will no longer allow you to deceive Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13702	National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, we have opportunities every day to see what kind of government we have and what kind of partners we have in that government. One of the best examples you had ten minutes ago, when a member of the ruling coalition from New Serbia came out, probably for a reason, I'm not going to say that he did it for no reason, in the most difficult way, accused one of the partners -- DS, of running a "dip" policy, of being guided by only interest and nothing else. There's a question of what line you're ready to go, because of a handful of authorities, to operate in such a government. How can any citizen of Serbia trust this government when you speak these words about each other in the Serbian Parliament? How do we even believe in any possibility of this government doing what its duty is to protect this country, to protect Kosovo and Metohija? After this is clear, not only after this, it is clear that you as a government have no such opportunity and that you are not interested in it. It's a fake, alleged DSS concern for the state. Apparently, first to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue, it is a question of all issues, and then we will address other issues. How come it wasn't in January 2007, then you went to the election? No, you don't have a candidate. This is why you are not interested in the presidential elections now and why you are putting Kosovo and Metohija ahead to convince Serbian citizens that you are allegedly taking care of the state. Because your candidate only has access to Belanovica, there he might have some chance for a local community, possibly, to win first place and nowhere else in Serbia. These are things that are clear to every citizen of this country. A party that is in power, which claims to lead Serbia, is unable to cast out a candidate for Serbia's president here, in 2002, from the Martians, this is five years. You're making us believe that you're in the first place interested in the state. What is your primary interest in the state when you sit in government with ministers who openly advocate joining the NATO Pact. You say - neutrality, we don't want to join the NATO Pact, but that's why you want to join the EU. What is the difference between the EU and the NATO Pact? NATO is just an instrument of America and the EU. He enforces their politics by force. I can't understand how you can stand for the EU, and apparently you're not a NATO pact. Then how can you even be partners in a government where one part stands for the NATO Pact? The Italian parliament has passed a resolution obliging its government to represent the view that Resolution 1244 is an inevitable document and that it cannot be crossed. That's what the Italian Parliament is discussing. Why did the legalists not do what they had to do, schedule a session of the Serbian Parliament where the negotiating team would come out and give information regarding the negotiations, so that the Serbian Parliament would determine the frameworks within which state leadership would move, both the government and the president of the Republic. Why should we inform ourselves here what the government is going to do, or the Prime Minister of Agency News? I guess it's the Serbian parliament that owns it and determines who will and in any way react in any situation. Why isn't it there? Because you do not want to come before the Serbian Parliament, because this is what you are coming to Serbia's citizens. That's what your problem is. You cannot and cannot account for the citizens of Serbia for this disaster that has hit us, and this decision by the Council of Ministers of the European Union, where everyone stands to see that Serbia needs to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, and you say that your strategic goal is not only co-operation but to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13704	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13705	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would ask you, before I quote the provision of Article 104, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, to ask the MPs and MPs who have come forward to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured in the future. If others are unable to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, then as an MP, I ask of you. It's offensive that the budget is being discussed in this way, that we are having an argument in this atmosphere. Mr. Cvetkovic, you better resign than you're sitting here asking us to go beyond the cost of 650 billion dinars the government has made to parliament by asking him to agree on such a thing in this humiliating atmosphere. We are the poorest European society, with the most irresponsible government that can be imagined. I don't mind you personally, but where the Prime Minister is, where the Deputy Prime Minister, where the ministers are, is a prerequisite for serious discussion of the budget law. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Sarovic, I believe you made a lapus when you mentioned me as the person who supports Boris Tadic's policy. I am sorry that in the policy of the President of the Republic there is no room for support for LDP and citizens who support us. The support was lost when the policy of the President of the Republic began to rely on the concept between the SRS and the other, in situations where the President of the Republic with Seselj urged citizens to vote for the country's constitution, a constitution that is not quoted today but is quoted as texting from the representatives of the authorities. I don't know if you did it because you managed to go back to Vranj after the previous session and go back in six hours, but we will be very happy to beat both Kostunica's candidates, and Nikolic and Tadic, and radicals as a party with a policy that has convincing support, can always count on argumental opposition and basic respect. I told the head of your parliamentary group that he had left in a decent manner, although in a decent way he did not take office as president of the assembly. You are the largest parliamentary group here, and we expect you to take this debate seriously, we are making a huge contribution. So, I ask you, Mr. Mrkonjic, to ensure the necessary conditions for the normal launch of the debate on the budget law. Otherwise, this debate will be very difficult in a normal way. We want the Prime Minister here, we want the Deputy Prime Minister, we want the Minister of Health, we want the Minister of Education, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Defence, we want to ask some questions and we want these people to get answers, not to ask Mr Cvetkovic to defend something that is indefensible. If there is no government willing to defend the cost of 650 billion dinars, then there is no debate on the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13706	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the LDP. I'm taking a 15-minute break and I'm asking all the heads of Parliament to come to the president's first floor for a brief consult.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. At the meeting of the heads of Parliament, we agreed to work today until 20.00 hours. This time we've had is treated like a break, so we're working without a break. Please understand and continue to work on the agenda, that's the budget. I give the word to the finance minister, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13708	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a draft budget for 2008. I would like to present to you the basic elements of the budget, as well as the economic and fiscal policy to be implemented through the proposed budget in 2008. Serbia's 2008 budget is based on current macroeconomic trends and projections of Serbia's medium-term development and planned economic and fiscal policy in 2008. Now I'd like to look back on macroeconomic movements and projections. In Serbia's economy in 2007, like in previous years, positive trends prevail. The country's economic activity, exports and foreign reserves have been significantly increased, a solid amount of direct foreign investment has been achieved, and savings in banks are growing significantly. Gross social product is estimated to be around 7% higher in 2007 compared to the previous year, which is one of the highest growth rates in Europe. The cumulative growth of gross social product between 2001 and 2007 is 44% and 5.3% respectively annually. The growth in goods and services exports in 2008 is estimated to be 23%, reaching 8.5 billion euros, about 3.1 times more than exports in 2001. Direct investments in Serbia will amount to between two and two and a half billion euros, which can be estimated as a solid amount, since there was no significant foreign capital inflows based on privatisation during 2007, so the majority of foreign investments relate to greenfield investments, including the capitalisation of existing already privatised enterprises and banks. At the end of October, the country's foreign exchange reserves reached 10 billion euros, so that now roughly corresponds to the eight-month value of imports of goods and services. Unlike these mentioned positive trends, relatively unfavourable trends have been achieved in the area of external economic relations with abroad, as well as in the labour market. The external trade deficit in 2007 is estimated to be more than 20% of the gross social product, while the current balance of payments deficit will be slightly lower than 15% of the gross social product, which places us in countries with a record current payment deficit. The high growth of the external trade and current balance of payments, despite high export growth, is due to strong import growth. Analysis shows that import growth is due to high domestic demand growth, launched by fiscal expansion at the end of 2006, and whose key element was salary growth in the state sector. During 2007, demand was generated by continuing high wage growth, but also by strong credit activity of banks. There are still negative trends in the labour market, unemployment continues to increase, while employees' salaries are growing faster than productivity. In doing so, these two trends are interrelated, namely, faster growth in productivity wages reduces demand for labour and thus further affects the increase in unemployment. The inflation rate is estimated to be around 9.5% in 2007, which is about three percentage points higher than in 2006. The rise in inflation compared to the previous year is the result of most unpredictable factors beyond government control, such as rising energy prices on the world market and drought in the Southeast Europe region, not systemic economic factors. Serbia is no exception in this, as these factors have affected an increase in inflation across the Southeast European region. Base inflation, which is an indicator of the impact of systemic macroeconomic factors, such as fiscal and monetary policy, salary policy, dinar rate and others, will be about 5% in 2007, which is about one percentage point less than in the previous year. In 2008, based on current trends in planned economic policies and reforms, as well as expected international impacts, a continuation of positive trends in Serbia's economy is expected. According to a conservative estimate, the rate of GDP growth in 2008 will be 6%, slightly lower than this year, but it will continue to be one of the highest growth rates in Europe. The most important generators of economic growth so far have been implemented reforms of the economic system, including business liberalisation, privatisation of social enterprises and banks, a stimulating tax system, reform of economic legislation and others. These reforms have contributed essentially to the improvement of the economic environment for domestic and foreign investments, and thus to rapid economic growth. Based on new trends and planned economic policy measures, inflation rates are expected to be lower than in 2007, i.e. around 6%, and basic inflation is expected to be slightly lower than this year. The planned fiscal policy measures, which should affect the curbing of domestic demand and external trade deficits, will also have an impact on curbing inflationary pressures. In 2008, the deficits in the external trade and current balance of payments are expected to decrease compared to the gross social product. The expected reduction in external deficits will be partly due to an increase in Serbia's economy's competitiveness due to structural reforms and the other part to the planned measures of economic policy. By reducing the external trade deficit, it will ensure that Serbia's external debt, private and public, grows slower than gross social product growth. Also, a shift in Serbia's labour market is expected to begin next year towards a gradual increase in the number of employees. The expected growth in employment is a synthetic result of realised reforms and planned economic policy measures in 2008. As for projections of basic macroeconomic indicators, I would just like to point out that the estimated gross social product in this year will be around 2,450 billion dinars, or reduced to the head of the population, about 4,058 euros, and the 2008 projection is a gross social product of 2,779 billion, i.e. per capita of 4.573 euros. Now I would refer to the results of fiscal policy in the current year 2007. The results of fiscal policy in the past part of the year, as well as in the consolidated sector of the state, both in the consolidated sector and in the Republic of Serbia's budget are more favourable than planned. More favourable results are due to the implementation of the austerity and rationalisation programme at all levels of the country. In the first three quarters of 2007, a surplus was reached in the consolidated state sector of 50.6 billion dinars. The surplus was reached at the level of the Republic, at the level of local communities and the PIO Fund of Independent Activities, while the rest of the fiscal institutions were balanced. If the income is excluded from the licence and the expenditure includes payment of debt to pensioners and net loans, which corresponds to the IMF methodology, then the surplus amounted to around 11.1 billion dinars. In light of the above, fiscal policy in the past part of 2007 was not responsible for the acceleration of inflation and for the growth of the external trade deficit. The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first 11 months is also somewhat more favourable than it would suit the dynamics that are in line with the 2007 Budget Law. In doing so, revenues are approximately at the level of the plan, while expenditure and deficits are less than planned. The Republic's budget regulated all the commitments of the current year, but also served about two billion dinars of leftover liabilities from previous years. According to a methodology applied by the finance ministry in the first 11 months in Serbia's budget, a surplus of around 39 billion dinars has been achieved. If the income is excluded from the licence for the third mobile phone operator and the expenditure includes payment of debt to pensioners and net loans. So the IMF methodology, then there's about no surplus, or deficit, we're somewhere balanced, or the surplus is about 0.5 billion dinars. Therefore, regardless of whether a domestic methodology is applied, i.e. the one prescribed by the finance ministry or the IMF methodology, the budget of the Republic of Serbia did not create additional liquidity during the first 11 months of this year, so it did not, through demand, affect the growth of the external deficit and inflation. The total public debt of the Republic of Serbia at the end of September 2007 amounted to 713 billion dinars, i.e. around 9 billion euros, amounting to about 30% of Serbia's estimated GDP in 2007. In late September 2007, Serbia's public debt was lower by about 300m euros compared to the end of 2006, while Serbia's public debt was reduced by 36.2% and 5.1 billion euros respectively, respectively. The degree of responsibility of the Republic of Serbia measured by the public debt ratio towards the gross social product in 2007 is relatively low, is about 30% of gross social product and can be estimated as very low, and that compared to the mastric conditions that speak of 60% as a maximum, so is the responsibility in the countries in the environment. Most of the public debt refers to a direct public debt, which amounted to 8.2 billion euros at the end of September 2007, while indirect debt, which is the debt based on guarantees issued, amounted to 0.8 billion euros. Under direct debt, domestic debt amounts to 3.5 billion euros or 43.2 per cent, while foreign debt amounted to 4.7 billion euros and 56.8 per cent, respectively. Out of the total amount of domestic public debt, 87.6 per cent was denominated in euro, while the dinar debt is around 12.4 per cent. This circumstance is relatively unfavourable because of the large amount of debt domesticated in euro. The debt based on the old foreign savings amounting to about 3.1 billion euros was the largest single position in the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to talk about the macroeconomic and fiscal policy planned for 2008. The continuation of rapid economic growth, while maintaining macroeconomic stability, requires the acceleration of economic reforms, as well as certain changes in economic policies, with the goal of reducing Serbia's economy imbalances to a sustainable level. Basic imbalances in Serbia's economy are low levels of domestic savings compared to investments and high levels of population spending compared to income. The combination of economic policies, applied over the previous years, has affected that these fundamental imbalances are almost in general transferred to the external trade balance, while their impact on inflation was relatively low. In the short and medium term, this imbalance can be reduced by an appropriate combination of economic policy, while structural economic reforms are crucial within the long term. The acceleration of economic reforms towards building a comprehensive market economy should provide a key contribution to increasing domestic savings and improving Serbia's competitiveness. From the point of view of improving competitiveness, key reforms in the coming years are the following - the completion of the privatisation of social enterprises, the improvement of competition policy, the creation of a more suitable investment environment, the creation of conditions for competition in infrastructure activities and the partial privatisation of infrastructure enterprises. The growth of domestic savings and the improvement of competitiveness will directly affect the reduction of the gap between savings and investments, and, indirectly, the reduction of the external trade deficit as its key manifestations. The role of fiscal policy is to reduce the participation of public consumption in the gross social product in the coming years, in order to reduce the overall domestic demand compared to domestic supply. It is also necessary to gradually move to a surplus, which would partially cover deficits in the private sector, i.e. to create space, businesses to increase their own resources, depreciation and profits, which are not enough, through additional debt and through additional investments. An important instrument to slow the growth of aggregate demand is also effective wage control in republican and local public enterprises. The slowdown of growth and changes in the aggregate demand structure also require appropriate measures within the monetary policy and policy of the dinar course. The proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia and the overall fiscal policy for 2008 are a step in that direction. It is estimated that the contribution of the proposed budget in the gross social product in 2008 will be about 0.7 percentage points lower than in 2007, while the participation of consolidated public consumption in the gross social product will be less by around 0.8 percentage points. The participation of the budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia in the gross social product in 2008, will be around 0.5%, slightly lower than the planned deficit in 2007, but it is necessary to remind that revenue for 2007 was included in the licence for a third mobile operator of around 25 billion dinars, which is about 1% of the gross social product. The achievement of the necessary shift towards long-term sustainable growth requires an additional reduction in public spending over the gross social product, as well as a shift from the fiscal deficit to the fiscal surplus. Limiting wage growth to the level of expected inflation is a key measure for reducing public spending in 2008. The participation of employees in the state sector is 9.7% of gross social product and is among the largest in Europe. The high participation of labour costs in public expenditure and gross social product is the largest public expenditure structure in Serbia. Due to the high transfer of wages from 2007, this measure will not bring out full effects in 2008, but it creates a favourable basis for reducing labour costs in the context of public spending in the coming years. During 2008, the government will initiate a detailed analysis that will examine all options for reducing the costs of the state sector in the gross social product. This analysis will also examine the possibility of reducing the number of employees in the state sector. In addition to the proposed, it is also necessary to establish wage control in the Republic, local, municipal and public enterprises. The second positive change in the public spending structure started in 2006 is an increase in public investment expenditure. Although the budget for public investment in 2008 is projected slightly lower than in 2007, total public investment will be significantly higher because in 2008 it plans to use loans to finance public investments. In addition, a change in the structure of public investment towards the growth of the participation of large infrastructure projects is planned in 2008. Fiscal policy should contribute to the creation of favourable conditions for investment and economic growth and through tax policy. During previous years, significant progress has been made in this area, so that the tax system in Serbia is competitive with countries in the Southeast European region. Tax rates on major fiscal instruments in Serbia are lower or at the level of average in countries in the region. On the other hand, Serbia's fiscal position over the next few years does not provide an opportunity to reduce tax rates for more important fiscal instruments. Of course, such changes are possible in tax rates which would compensate for the reduction of one tax rate by increasing others. Therefore, the creation of incentive conditions for the functioning of the economy through tax policy over the next few years will focus on simplifying the tax system and improving its allocative efficiency. The proposed amendments to the tax laws, which are addressed to the National Assembly together with the draft budget, have been directed in this direction and will have no significant impact on the overall amount and structure of the revenues of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 and the coming years. When it comes to revenues, the planned total revenue in 2008 is about 640 billion dinars, which is 9.9% more than in 2007. The total issue of the 2008 budget was proposed at 654.4 billion dinars, which is also 9.9% higher than in 2007. The 2008 budget deficit is planned at 14.8 billion dinars, which is 8% higher than in the previous year. In addition to subsidising public expenditure, the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget provides significant funds for public debt financing, as well as funds for investment in financial assets. In order to repay the capital of domestic and foreign public debt, funds amounting to 48.3 billion dinars are provided for, and 26.1 billion dinars are foreseen for the purchase of financial assets. Therefore, the total funds needed to finance the budget deficit, service the main public debt and purchase of financial assets in 2008 amount to 89.3 billion dinars. The necessary funds to finance those purposes are mostly, i.e. they are already already provided in a deposit formed from privatisation income, from selling mobile phone licenses, with a value of about 90 billion dinars. In 2008, additional revenues from the privatisation of social and public enterprises, as well as from the sale of assets, were planned to provide additional funding after 2008. The budget receipt plan was based on the achieved receipts of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first 10 months of 2007 and estimates of the achievement by the end of 2007, then on the expected continuation of the positive trend in the movement of economic activity in 2008, then on the planned changes in tax policy and finally based on an expected decrease in the grey economy by increasing the rate of tax revenues. Serbia's 2008 budget receipts are planned at around 639.6 billion dinars, with tax revenues of around 93% and non-tax revenues close to 7%. In 2008 compared to the previous year, all tax revenues were planned at a higher level, and the biggest growth is expected in the company's profit tax, which is significant not only at the level of income on this basis, but much more, as an indicator of good business. Relatively high is the growth of income from consumption taxes, VAT, excise duties and customs, which maintain the growth of domestic demand. In the budget structure, revenue based on value added tax plays a dominant role. They're 48.7%. Compared to 2007, VAT-based revenues are nominally higher by 15.2%. The excise revenue is the second most important in the total revenue of the budget and their participation is 17.4% of the total revenue, and they are calculated to make a nominal increase of 12.6% compared to 2007. The planned income from income tax is 72 billion dinars, or 11.3% of total revenue from the budget. The nominally planned revenues from this tax form are higher by 17.2% compared to the 2007 plan. Revenues based on income tax were projected at a higher level compared to the previous year, in line with the high transfer of earnings from 2007 and the expected growth of earnings and other taxable incomes, as well as the expansion of tax cases by the annual income tax of citizens in the coming period. Projected customs revenues are 60.5 billion dinars or 9.6% of total budget revenues. Incomes from corporate and bank profits are becoming increasingly significant revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2008, it is estimated to be around 34 billion dinars, i.e. 5.3% of total budget revenues. Compared to the previous year, profit tax revenues are nominally higher by 24.6%. The planned non-tax revenues amount to 43.4 billion dinars, which accounts for 6.8% of the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Compared to the 2007 plan, the projected non-tax revenues are nominally lower by 32.7%. The reason for this fall is that in 2007, this category of income also covered an inflow of funds based on the sale of a mobile phone license, which will not be in 2008. Budget expenditure: total expenditure of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 is proposed to be 654.4 billion dinars, which I said was 9.9% higher than expenditure in 2007. Out of total budget increases, 53.1 billion dinars or 91% are related to two components of expenditure, namely: increasing the transfer to compulsory social insurance organisations and other levels of government and increasing staff expenditure. The increase in the transfer to mandatory social security organisations and other levels of government is almost entirely due to the application of valid constitutional and legal obligations, such as compliance of the average pension ratios and the average salary to up to 60%. Secondly, the constitution prescribed the ratio of the budget of the AP Vojvodina's revenue and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Third, the legally prescribed amount of the transfer of the Republic of Serbia to local communities of 1.7% of gross social product. As a result of the current rules, these transfers are higher by about 30 billion dinars than in 2007, which is more than 50% of the total proposed budget increase. The largest increase in transfers will take place with the PIO Fund, around 15 billion dinars, whose goal is to bring the average pension ratios one time, as well as 10 billion dinars related to the AP Vojvodina and the local community. Employment expenditure in 2008 will be higher by 23.6 billion dinars compared to 2007. Of the above-mentioned increases in expenditure on employees, as many as 18.5 billion dinars are related to the so-called so-called Transmitted growth, i.e. to the growth that would have been achieved if the salaries had been frozen throughout 2008. The planned increase in salary during 2008 is only up to 6% inflation levels. Now I would like to briefly explain the proposed amounts of the largest expenditure positions in the budget. Donations and transfers. Donations and transfers are the most robust position in the structure of the overall expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is proposed that donations and transfers amount to 233.2 billion dinars, representing 35.6% of the total expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As previously said, the amount of donations and transfers is almost in general determined by constitutional and legal solutions. Transfers to mandatory social security organisations. The proposed transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations amount to 165.6 billion dinars, representing 25.3% of the total expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The aim of proposed transfers per user is: 127.1 billion dinars of the Republic Fund for PIO, 18.5 billion dinars for military insurance pensions, 15 billion dinars National Employment Service, 4.8 billion dinars of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, in which four billion dinars for unsecured persons and 878 million for investments in health institutions. Transfers from the Republic of the PIO Fund's budget are in two budgetary positions, in the Ministry of Finance of 104.6 billion and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of 22.5 billion. Income based on transfers from the Republic's budget is a significant source of funding from the PIO Fund and its participation in the Fund's 2008 revenue will be one-third, so 33% of the budget will participate in the total financing. Obligations of the Republic of Serbia's budget under the transfer of the PIO Fund have been defined by the Law on PIO. The proposed amount of transfers from the Republika Srpska budget to the PIO Fund in 2008 is higher by 15 billion compared to 2007. This kind of increase in transfers is due to the legal provision that has already been discussed, which refers to the harmonisation of the average level of pensions. From a macroeconomic point of view, the above-mentioned harmonisation of the average pensions and average earnings ratios is the result, above all, of a large growth in earnings at the end of 2006 and 2007, which has made this discretion that has occurred and which we need to coordinate immediately in early 2008. When it comes to transfers to the National Employment Service, they amount to 15 billion dinars and represent as much as 47.6% of the total planned receipts of this service in 2008. These funds are mostly used to pay regular monthly fees for unemployment and temporary fees for persons from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. In 2008, 12 cash compensations were planned for 78,000 cash compensation users, as well as 12 temporary fees for around 23,000 users. This would result in payment of the right for the period since September 2007, with payment for August 2008, so that the delay in the payment of these rights would be only three months. Transfer funds for the Republic Health Insurance Office amounting to four billion dinars are intended to contribute to the health care of insurance companies referred to in Article 22. Health insurance laws. In this law, it is prescribed that certain persons – children up to 15 years old, students up to 26 years old, women with family planning, persons over 65 years of age, etc. – who do not otherwise make income must provide health insurance, regardless of which they do not make a payment. In this sense, a republican budget now appears to compensate for the costs of doing these services. In addition to the four billion for these purposes, the budget provides for 878 million dinars for investments in health institutions. This figure does not contain investments provided through loans. When it comes to transfers of other levels of government, they are foreseen in the total amount of (2008). About 67 billion dinars a year and account for 10.3% of total budget expenditure. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulated the transfer of AP Vojvodina to at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the province's budget being used to finance capital expenditures. Funding to cover the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget will be provided from part of the income tax of citizens, a profit tax of 18% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, portions of the company's income tax of 42.7% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and other revenue generated on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. The funds for education staff expenditure on AP Vojvodina territory will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in accordance with the law, amounting to 22.7 billion dinars. The expenditure on funding part of the cultural programme for around 0.8 billion dinars. The remaining amount of funds to at least 7% of the budget will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget through the government office's division of the national investment plan and through other NIP projects. When it comes to local self-government, transfers to local levels of government amount to about 36 billion dinars and are determined in accordance with Article 37. Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. 1.7% of gross social product for 2006. The expenditure on employees for 2008 is 176.7 million dinars and participate in the total expenditure structure with 27%. The majority of these expenditures of 160.8 billion dinars relate to salaries of employees financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Staff expenditure funds will have an increase of 15.6% compared to 2007. Under the plans for salaries, funds for salaries at the Ministry of Defence will have the highest growth, given the two-year lagging of salaries in this ministry compared to other budget users. Social security and social security, social security and social security funds are related to social protection compensation from the budget and participates in the total expenditure structure with 10.2%, and are planned to total 66.7 billion dinars. Expenses for the use of goods and services in 2008 are planned for a total of 45.8 billion dinars, so that it participates in the total expenditure structure with 7%. The planned funds for this purpose are up 6.8% compared to the 2007 budget. When it comes to subsidies, the total subsidies are planned at 39.6 billion dinars and participate in the total expenditure structure with 6%. Of this amount, the majority of subsidies relate to subsidies in agriculture of 17.3 billion dinars, then subsidies for JP "Serb Railways" of 10.6 billion dinars, subsidies in the economy of only three billion dinars, so less than in the previous year, subsidies in tourism 2.7, subsidies in a culture of 0.9 and other subsidies of around 4 billion dinars. For the NIP, the budget envisions a amount of 34.5 billion dinars and accounts for the total expenditures with 5.3%. The National Investment Plan for AP Vojvodina's territory is provided for funding of 9 billion dinars, and 10 billion dinars for other projects through the NIP Office will also be channelled through resolution ministries. The basic assets, buildings and construction facilities are planned to total 29.7 billion dinars and participate in the total expenditure structure with 4.5%. The planned increase in these spending categories compared to 2007 is about 20%. Other expenditures in the total expenditure structure are all with 1%. Reserve funds are planned for everything of 3.3 billion dinars. Now I'd like to say something about public debt and the acquisition of non-financial assets. Since the beginning of 2001, the Republic of Serbia has allocated significant funds to settle public debt obligations. The total disbursement of public debt from January 1st 2001 to September 2007, amounted to 3.4 billion euros, of which 1.9 billion euros were internal debt financing and 1.5 billion euros in external debt service. In the context of these expenditures, the cost of serving old foreign exchange savings is the largest single position and they amounted to 1.2 billion dinars during that period. In the first three quarters of 2007, the total cost of public debt service in Serbia amounted to over 600m euros. The government of the Republic of Serbia will continue regular service of all public debt obligations in 2008. By regular public debt service, the Republic of Serbia has regained credibility, both in the international financial market and in Serbia. The 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia has planned a 65.3 billion dinar budget for this purpose, which is now worth over 800m euros. The acquisition of financial assets. The proposal for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia contains expenditure based on the state's investment in financial assets of 26.1 billion dinars. Investment in financial assets consists of two main components. The first component refers to loans granted by the state under favourable non-economic conditions, for the development of agriculture, employment and implementation of technological innovations. The second component refers to the State's participation in the recapitalisation of banks and non-commercial institutions, such as the Deposit Insurance Fund, the National Corporation for Residential Loans, etc. So, I gave this about in relatively short lines of reference to certain items of revenue and expenditure of the budget and on the basis of the above, we can come to the following conclusions: first of all, the planned fiscal policy in 2008 is a step towards reducing the participation of public consumption in the gross social product, reducing the liquidity impact of the state on aggregate demand and improving the structure of public consumption. The proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia therefore supports macroeconomic stability and the continuation of high growth rates of the economy, but provides a financial basis for speeding up economic and social reforms. The proposed budget contains a balanced relationship between the state's social and development functions, as previously said, planned expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget will be nominally higher by 9.9%, which is real growth by around 2% compared to planned inflation. In the context of relatively modest growth in total budget expenditures, funds have been provided to serve both regular and extraordinary expenditures. The proposed budget contains additional funds for transfers of as many as 30 billion dinars. The budget also provided funding for additional projects, such as the University, the Eurovision, projects in the MUP, the military, the judiciary and the other in the amount of around 14 billion dinars. In addition, the budget also envisions three billion dinars for the reconciliation of earlier late ones in the reconciliation of obligations towards wartime wartime people with disabilities, diaspora, justice, railways and others. The proposed budget also provides for 34.5 billion dinar funds for the realisation of public investment under the NIP. The planned funds for this purpose, together with the expected inflow of guaranteed and project loans, will generate a high level of public investment, which will be one of the main drivers of growth in the economy in 2008, as well as in the coming years. Since the planned budget expenditures and budget deficits are growing slower than the growth of the nominal gross social product, the proposed 2008 budget is not expansional. However, the high level of the external trade deficit imposes the need to continue fiscal adjustment policy in the coming years, with the goal of further reducing the share of budget expenditure and total public spending in the gross social product, as well as moving from the budget deficit to the budget surplus. The reduction in public consumption and deficits relative to the gross social product is necessary in order to reduce macroeconomic imbalances, regardless of the state owns a high amount of privatisation deposits. The spending of these deposits, which are not formed from regular budget revenues, increases the difference between domestic offer and demand and thus directly affects the increase in the external trade deficit. The reduction of public spending and the achievement of surpluses requires the implementation of the medium-term real-cost rationalisation policy, whose main elements should be the slower growth of average wages than the growth of nominally gross social product, the reduction of the number of employees in the state sector, the reduction of subsidies, the rationalisation of the state-owned network and the transfer of part of the Republic's commitments to the AP Vojvodina and the local community, a proportional increase in participation in public expenditures. This is how I put out the basic elements of the budget. Some of them were interesting, some of them weren't. I hope that in a constructive debate that follows, you will point to good sides, shortcomings and give some good ideas, and in the end line, vote and support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13709	I thank the Minister for the exhaustive opening statement. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance Radojko Obradovic, vice-president of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MP Slobodan Maras, who delivered an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, want a word? The word has the People's MP Slobodan Maras, then the heads of the parliamentary groups and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups will come to you, in accordance with the order of registration. It is Cedomir Jovanovic, then MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary club, then Balint Pastor and then Varga Laslo. Mr. Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13710	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, what to say after this reading of the budget, from members to members, or a complete explanation that you have given. We expected you to try some things to defend, not to read to us what we could read ourselves in the budget. First, I would like to say, for the sake of the public, that if the budget was not adopted by 15 December, it falls primarily on the government's burden, which has delivered this draft budget with a month of delay, one month after the legal deadline, or Article 14. Budgetary system law. What about the budget itself? The budget is anti-developmental, the budget is anti-reform, the budget is pre-election and the budget is wasteful. We are here, Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the Assembly, expecting to see the Prime Minister, to see the Deputy Prime Minister, to see the ministers from certain resolutions who could answer certain questions. Unfortunately, they are here as the most competent perhaps, but also as the scapegoat sent by the finance minister. This budget is ten percent higher than last year's. Are we as rich as society and as a state or is the main reason, above all, the increase in income per portfolio, which is more than 16% in the 2008 budget. Mr. Minister, you have just read to us and parts of the Memoranda, however, have forgotten to mention some important things that you shyly observed in the Memorandum, which is, above all, a high external trade deficit, which is probably a very grateful import lobby, a high unemployment rate of almost a million citizens, a growth in public spending and a rise in public earnings above productivity. You yourself admitted it was the legacy of 2006. However, all that you put into the 2008 budget shows that you of these tendencies do not give up. The responsible government in this draft budget, first of all, would try to tighten the belt. Instead, you're courting the voters. The state must no longer spend more than its taxpayers put into that budget. I'd like you to explain some information, first of all to the target. The policy we're dealing with is clear. The military security service has a 120 per cent higher budget than in 2007 or in figures from 46 million to 107 million. Military intelligence has a budget of 150 per cent higher than last year or in figures from 63 to 150 million. The BIA has a budget of over three billion. What kind of country do we live in? Police, security? Citizens expected that this budget would, above all, have one developmental and reformal course, not turn into a police and military state. What are you getting ready for? The economy ministry has a 25% higher budget than last year. I guess it's paying back to Mr Dinkic, so he could make all his pre-election promises from last campaign come true, and that's probably the winter Olympics he promised. You've dramatically increased your earnings according to certain portfolios. For earnings in some ministries, a 75% higher budget is allocated than in 2007, for example when it comes to the labour ministry. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has made more than 80 percent of the profits, but that's why you bought the farm portfolio with only five percent more, meaning less than inflation. I would remind you, and you certainly know that Croatia has a double population, it has a 50% less processed area, but that's why it has almost half a billion euros in the agricultural budget. We'll talk about all the details about it when the amendments come. You gave the Anti-Corruption Council less money and less budget than last year. It's not enough that the Deputy Prime Minister is going to open Delta City, which threatens that the Anti-Corruption Council will shut down and start a new body, but you've cut their budget for this year. The administration for the execution of office sanctions has a 15% lower budget than last year. No wonder the prisoners are running away from prison, the prisoners are giving interviews from prison, when you send them a clear signal like this. The programme of protection and improvement of the position of disabled people has increased by only 10%. In Serbia, there are 10 per cent of people with disability status. In one such country, you have increased the budget for those persons by only 10%, and I repeat, for military security services, you have increased more than 100 percent. A special story is the position of the Duke. Mr. Minister, it's terrible not to see how much it comes from public income from the territory of Vojvodina. I know it's a problem to show it. From the territory of the AP Vojvodina, around 27% enters the budget, and only seven percent return, according to Article 184. The Constitution, or three weeks, only goes to capital expenditure. Otherwise, the public secret is that by December 1st, only 41% of the Constitution is scheduled for three weeks from the 2007 budget. So instead of about 20 billion dinars, you transferred only eight billion to the Executive Council of Vojvodina. Now it's even more unclear how much money the Vojvodina is going. You just read article 4 of this law, which we didn't need at all. We needed you to explain those seven percent of the Constitution, where they are in numbers. There are nine billion on the NIP. You've done it very well. You stated that from the income tax, 18 percent of the profit tax, 42 percent that were made in the Vojvodina territory, but you did not indicate anywhere how much these assets were. Yesterday we heard on the board that these funds were about six billion dinars. However, there is no organ that will confirm that this is the case. We want to see what the number that's going to go for these two basics is. When we add up, the seven billion that you mentioned and these nine billion, we only get to 16 billion, and that's far from the three weeks that you owe the budget. Mr. Minister, if you'd listen to something, so you can answer, because this way you won't know what I've asked you. At the end of the line, let me repeat, since time is already up, and I only have five minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13711	It's not over, Mr. Marash. You've got ten minutes. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13712	I can see by reading the Rules of Procedure that I have five, but thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of Vojvodina, which you have skillfully tried to bring down to seven percent, you do not respect it. I want it to be known that this government really does not respect the Constitution, first of all the prime minister who swears so much in the Constitution. There's no seven percent of the republican budget anywhere. There is one more thing I would like you to do, and I believe that some of the other colleagues who are in the Finance Committee will try to get an answer from you, what is, in fact, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is that those 680 and how many billions or 700 and something, since we heard on the Committee yesterday that it exists below the line and above the line? We think the number is greater than 680 and how many billions you've listed. So the budget figure is almost 10 billion euros. We expect that the sum of it to be in harmony with the Constitution. Once again, this budget is anti-developmental, this budget is anti-reform and this budget is, above all, pre-election. That advocacy to the voters before the upcoming elections will cost this country dearly. We spend a lot more money than taxpayers put into this budget. I hope that voters will eventually appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13713	Thank you. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13714	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know what, 45 minutes of budget reading can't fill the gap in this first row. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, I believe, are at least as aware as any MP in this room is of the economic policy of the government whose minister of finance you are. It is equally serious and responsible to how serious and responsible the government is under the 2008 Budget Law. Before the parliament is asked to support the spending of 655 billion dinars, it is time for the Prime Minister to file an account for the previous budget. The Prime Minister didn't do it either, of course, he's not here, but neither have you, Mr. Cvetkovic. You haven't even filed a bill for the money you spent since June 2007, so here's to this moment. You didn't explain the violation of the law. You have not explained why parliament must discuss the budget on 11 December, which is why the opposition should have an understanding of the legal obligation that requires the adoption of the budget for the following year by 15 December, when the government was not ready and responsible, capable of passing the budget in time and in accordance with the law. You tried to bury us with numbers, quotes of budget items. You have managed to make the most boring discussion of the most interesting issues in the country. That's why you need to put a little more life into this topic. First, who's responsible for breaking the planned inflation? It's a 50% break. Instead of the planned six, it's 9.5 and it's a fake 9.5. It is a two-digit one, and this is not read in inflation measurements just because some prices, which are already set as higher, will be put out to the public after January 1st. So, the earth is a lie. What is the policy based on lies? If we talk about the economy, it is bad, and it cannot have support and should not have the support of any MP in parliament, regardless of the party it comes from. It's not a good enough explanation for the rate of inflation that's broken down. Fifty percent of the error can't be just by jumping the price of oil or drought. It is true that the situation in the energy market has changed, it is true that the global problem is now a higher price and an increase in food prices, but there is not one country in Europe that is such a fragile economy that it fails by 50% of the planned inflation rate. The same oil is spent by the European Union. The same oil is spent by Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary. These countries have not exceeded the planned economic policy and to this end have compromised the economic perspective our government has done. It seems that something else has affected the rise of this inflation and the breakthrough of the planned frameworks. It will also affect the rate of planned inflation for next year. It is already unacceptably high; 6% is something that cannot be supported in parliament if this parliament wants to lead a serious economic policy. We stand for the frozen rate and the planned target inflation of 2%. If the government is unable to achieve it, it must resign. We need to find a better government. Give us an explanation of that error and that 50% gap. What is important to us before we analyse the government's economic policy is the government's political concept. You can't tell us that. That's what the Prime Minister has to tell us. That's what Vojislav Kostunica has to say. What kind of policy is the government running in 2008: is it development policy, is it war policy, is it integration policy in the European Union or is it an isolation policy? Only after the answer to that question can we analyze the economic aspect of this concept. But the Prime Minister isn't here. That is why, based on the views expressed so far by individual representatives of the government and the statements made by the Prime Minister, most often in our SMS messages, we can draw a devastating conclusion for you, Mr Cvetkovic. You have formulated the government's economic goals which are completely contrary to the political objectives of the government of which you are the finance minister. I will remind you of the objectives of your economic policy: macroeconomic stability, dynamic economic growth, employment growth and population standards, acceleration of the stabilisation and accession process to the European Union, accelerated implementation of economic reforms, more uniform regional development. This is just like that story from the '90s about the Swedish standard. The macroeconomic stability rests on monetary and fiscal policy. This monetary and fiscal policy could not provide this country with the kind of stability that would imply respect for the plans. You didn't say one word about tax policy. Why is this policy important? Even 93% of budget revenues are realised through the realisation of the tax policy. Of the 639 billion, I mean, 93% are provided by tax. What's your government's tax policy? Whether it is liberal, because it is the only way to ensure employment growth, dynamic economic growth, or it is restrictive, because it is the only way to provide and service a expensive country that is increasingly spending. It wasn't only Vojislav Kostunica who broke his election promise. It wasn't just the ruling coalition, it was you, Mr. Minister. Here in parliament, explaining the budget for the second half of 2007, and therefore we are a country that is precedentd in Europe, you said that you cannot violate the commitments of the previous government and that this makes it more cost in the budget than the one that would be optimal, but that it will be resolved by freezing and public spending or earning in the 2008 budget. You didn't do that. You cheated on parliament when you asked for support for the budget. Here you have not now offered an explanation for this fraud, and I would not draw out those analogies that follow the policy that cheats. I just need to warn you that you can't get our support until you repeat the reason for the continued growth of public consumption that hasn't been followed by an increase in our country's efficiency. You're asking citizens to pay for a state that most often endangers their lives, their elemental rights. Which one? Let's say, the right to work, the right to hire, the right to normal school, the right to be treated. How can you be the finance minister after this finding by the Health Insurance Office? I'll read this to you - The Institute won't be able to reconcile its obligations to medical institutions for medicines and medical medicines for prescriptions for pharmacies and pharmacies. That means he won't be able to provide health insurance rights to a number of insured persons. At the end of 2008, the Institute will have unmistakable obligations to health institutions, which will result in a rise in the duties of health institutions towards suppliers. What kind of government policy knowingly violates the laws previously passed by the government itself? Why don't you change the law and that Article 22, which guarantees students up to 15 years old, students up to 26 years old, refugees, exiled, disabled, women who maintain their pregnancy health care? Well, it's like the preamble of the Constitution, which you're referring to. When we ask the ministers what they do and why they break the law and the Constitution of this country, they quote to us the preamble of the Constitution that we need to respect; so let the Government respect the laws itself that it has passed. You must propose amending the Health Insurance Act, deleting Article 22. Maybe then you'd be less exiled and avoided in this country. This is how they live on the peripheries of our municipalities, without the right to normal school, without the right to be treated normally, without the right to work normally, without electricity, without water, in the mud, the rest of the cannon meat of failed policies. If we look at the expenditures of 655 billion, 176 billion are employees' salaries. What do we get from these employees? Can we get an estimate? Can we get an analysis of the previous hundreds of billions that have been spent? Did the service do their job? We can take a look at the priorities. Let's say, the smallest issue, the student standard, the student standard, the youth talent fund, the smallest one, we don't want to talk about Bia, we've written amendments about it, but you have to tell us what your economic priorities are, whether serviceing a state that destroys itself or defining the basis for a more quality perspective than the one offered to us. Where's science? Where's the education? Where are the students? Our functional education is practically inadmissible. We destroy generations, and we have no awareness of responsibility for such a thing. Who is responsible in this country for the fact that the level of useful knowledge offered to students and students in this country is on the lowest branches? Obviously, no one, or should think about it after defending Kosovo. If we talk about the objectives of your policy, they cannot be achieved in the area of dynamic economic growth. I'll tell you why. Because the economy is the last concern of the current government. Something else is the government's priority and it's been talked about so many times here. It is the defence of the endangered national sovereignty, identity, Kosovo, mistakes, failures, myths, traditions, not to enter the story now, will be a session on Kosovo. But here for the purposes of your economic policy, we cannot recognize any of what is the political priority of the government whose minister you are. How can you talk about speeding up the process of stabilising and joining the European Union while at the same time jeopardising those institutions that are a prerequisite for achieving that goal of yours? In an analysis of economic opportunities in the country, the EBRD found the existence of monopoly, cartels that threaten Serbia's transition. The government's response to that is to deal with the Anti-Corruption Council, which previously pointed to something like that. It is one of the few institutions that reduces budget assets compared to 2007, all others are growing. If this index is spoken and measured to qualify for the Serbian transition, then we are in the last place with 2.7%, and we are talking about speeding up the transition. Why are we at such a low level? It opens up as the most common answer to this question, the issue of corruption and the inability of the authorities to implement programmes that it has previously identified. As an opposition, of course, we always point to bad aspects of economic policy. Some of the economic moves that have been made over the past few months have been high quality. Unfortunately, it was just an announcement. Mr. Cvetkovic, what about the VAT on child's equipment and baby food? What do we do, go to church and pray as MPs so that the VAT will be abolished, since the government has an understanding of prayer, there is no understanding of the amendment. Don't tell us it doesn't work in other countries, it works. If the state is unable to ensure its own enforcement and compliance with its laws, then that state is incompetent, the laws are not bad. We ask you to lift the VAT and accept this parliament as an institution that obliges you and keep your intimate commitment to the Church to yourself. So last time you said no to our amendment and the amendment of some other parliamentary groups when a value added tax was discussed for children's equipment and children's food, and then the government accepted the suggestion of the Patriarch. Should the Patriarch be an MP for parliament to be a place where it is decided seriously? What about the capital gains tax? Why is he so confused? Why is fiscal decentralisation missing? What about local self-government? What about the respect of this Constitution, which was so insistent? Look at how little money, about 60 billion, is being transferred to local self-government. On what basis is that budget formed? Well, by making out of 100 dinars, in every municipality of 90 and more, it ends up in the central register. Serbia has been destroyed, and you know it very well, among other things, because it favours the principle of which some can parasite and fail on the basis of a cash register that distributes the resources of those who work and who are successful. The disastrous relationship is with Vojvodina. It's not a political issue, it's a prerequisite for a successful economic transition that you state as your goal. We need to define some fundamental principles that will be undeniable, both for you and for any of the following: that this country can spend as much as it does and that in this country there are those who work, those who don't feel bad about coming to work first, and the last one that left work; and those who are used to political corruption, which also commits you today, should not be our future. Some MPs also in the analysis of this budget, and my colleague, Maras, mentioned that this budget is partly and pre-election. He is. Because this budget should keep this illusion alive, by which the Serbian transition is dynamic and our economy is stronger from day to day. If the structure of budget revenues is analysed, it will cover budget expenditures, then it will be seen that we are far from what you describe as our current situation. One year we sold the tobacco industry, one year we sold cement factories, one year we sold mobile telephony and gave a license for a new frequency, but all of this we did to create the preconditions to finally live here what is a normal postulate of every healthy economy, and that's investing from abroad. The mortgage market that was destroyed in America has been added to the US economy and globally, but the economy still works well because about $70 billion of monthly investment is necessary for healthy functioning. Come on, tell us how much foreign investment you expect in 2008 and from which countries. Since we are in a state of unproclaimed war with the European Union and with the United States, and on the other hand, in a state of subordination with Russia, from which countries do you expect foreign investments and those greenfields? Can we get that as an answer? If there's no answer, then there's no support for the budget. Your policy and your definition of the fundamental problems of this society is taking away your right to this budget. Some of your colleagues here spoke before you in parliament and said the government's reaction to Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence would be severe, that they could not point to the character of that ferocity because it is a state secret. What they didn't say, and what we all know will actually happen is a repeat of a Russian script from the Berlin blockade. You will cut off Kosovo's electricity, block it in transport and traffic, resort to every form of obstruction and push this country into conflict with those you expect to invest here. Identify yourselves for one or the other. Go to parliament and say - we are sorry, 2008 is the year of the new conflicts, because we are making a budget for such a thing. These targets are invaluable. As for spending, you can't tell us much, but we expect your colleagues to show up here. It would be important for us, let's say, to hear a response from the Vice-President of the Government that deals with his cabinet, which is more numerous than the cabinet of the Prime Minister, who are travellers who, at their expense, exceed the cost of travel expenses of the Prime Minister of the Republic, the Republic Office, the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, the Anti-Corruption Council? What's the cost of that money? There is no one here who can answer our question from the Ministry of Health and Education. There's an education workers strike going on, they're asking for higher wages. What about the National Investment Plan? Where are the effects and results of spending these funds? How many people are employed, how many new jobs are there? Where are those election campaign computers during 2006 that were supposed to get every school? It's not gonna happen. Forty-five minutes of boring quotes of parameters, bets, tables. We're not at the counseling of economists in Budva or the Bathalnik, we'll sit here all day and expect an answer so we can discuss it seriously. There is no support for this budget precisely for these reasons, which no one is prepared to take responsibility for spending money from the previous budget, which has no explanation of expenditure, which has no clear political concept that is financed and which, in our opinion, is directly contrary to the country's priorities. Since these priorities aren't even listed here, and from what we recognize as priorities, we assume they're not your priorities, they're on the verge of your interest, given that they're the least isolated for them, which are universities, education, science and the most socially endangered layers of our population. I'm sorry, you can't make people refugees, exiled, poor, and then take care of them and not even talk about them. That's what we need to talk about. We think there would be fewer if people knew what was really waiting for them here in Serbia. And let it be said to those who are packing in Kosovo today because it should be part of a political project that will, of course, amaze the world, and here homogenize Serbia for defence of something that has long been lost. No, Serbs in Kosovo might think differently if they saw how they had gone before them, and those before them were humiliated, rejected, no one cares about them, except for certain parties who do so by causing an incident in parliament to get electricity, which they should then pay for. Yesterday you saw on national television that the school had no electricity and no water for six months. It's not the subject of the budget, and we want to talk about it. A lot of money, 650 billion, a lot of money and 639, how much will be taken from citizens through taxes, but no note of the character of spending these funds and the fact that by supporting this budget in 2009, we will enter into worse shape than we are in 2008, and it is in itself unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13715	The word is by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13716	Dear Serbian citizens, I believe you have no dilemma, the SRS will vote against the 2008 budget law. The main reason for this is that this budget is a faithful picture and an opportunity for the tension of the ruling coalition that has led to the shooting and that this budget satisfies only the interests of the participants and the ruling coalition, which the agenda tells us about, changes in the order of the agenda points, variations of the budget laws that came from 8 to 30 November in three variants, and I will explain that to you individually. In fact, the budget is a picture of the conflicted interests of people who do not share the same values, do not implement the same policy, cannot be watched, what the people would say, but it is a budget that all what is called large and small frogs that are to be swallowed in such a coalition is drinking, because the money that is being collected from the citizens allows these people of the ruling coalition to submit otherwise difficult calls for co-operation in the ruling coalition. That is the basic purpose of this budget. To repeat, what money can do, no army can. The sense of participation for almost everyone, with little differences in shades, is just the distribution of a cookie called the budget. All that when they play co-operation with each other, when they shake hands like that. At the Euromani award ceremony, when Djelic congratulates Dinkic, he will iron out this budget because the money for the prize and the cost of the prize, directly and indirectly, among other things, is in this budget. All stories, for example. Mr. Ilic, who introduced the benchmark of success, and let me ask him, quote him, if he made a mile or a meter of asphalt somewhere, here he is in the budget and in the agenda. So, Mr. Velja Ilic, as a criterion for the success of politicians, introduced miles of asphalt that paves the way for the grandfather or the budget. There's no dilemma from the budget. In the agenda, along with the following tax laws, there was also a law on public roads. Mr. Velija Ilic was denied the money from the budget to continue asphalting as a benchmark for performance measures, and he had to and conditioned the coalition to find a law on the agenda with two members, where in 2008 and 2009, he received a percentage of the funds from road compensation so that he could continue to be successful. There's not much difference with part of the coalition that makes up the G17. The agenda had to be changed last night, and when I say last night, you don't see the signs of the quote, but I'll explain them. He had to be changed to participate in the work. Due to some private obligations yesterday afternoon, I had to be out of the O.R. and very persistent, and I waited very long for the end of the session to see when we would continue working on the budget today. I couldn't wait for him, and when I got up this morning at 5:30, when I got up, I turned on Radio Belgrade, and I heard the assembly finished the session last night. I think before 12:00, it's good, we'll start at 10.00 today. I hear from my colleagues that the Assembly worked almost until half past three. Last night and this morning are two different terms. One treats the time to 12.00, one to two at midnight, and that is only a single one-way remark, but one of the reasons why congregation transfers should never be abolished, because the image and tone that Serbian and Radio Belgrade Radio TV provide about working in this hall is simply not true and many are misleading. So, in this morning's adoption of the G17 agenda, he insisted that, not as the last item of the agenda, two amendments and additions to the law on privatisation and obtaining free action for two reasons. It is one mistrust towards coalition members, that it is possible for work to be interrupted after the budget point and the adoption of the budget and that these laws remain a dead letter on paper, and I assume they work together for a long time, so they know each other and that fear is established. The second reason for that was a pre-election promise, so don't let the citizens resent me, a colorful lie that hides in these two laws. We will talk about them in particular, but if in the 2007 draft budget that Mr Dinkic made as outgoing finance minister, the proposal was to use 50% of NIS funds to settle loans to the government of NIS, and 50% of the projects of the National Investment Plan on Vojvodina territory, then there was actual pollution in Panchev, and it was promised before the elections of everything and everything, and then that promise was translated into the draft budget, and today the NIS is on the list of public enterprises, from which the share of the sale should be carried out free of charge. I'll say it right now, one of the companies. What seems to be a good promise for the people contains something that is not a hidden flaw. The plan to make privatisation by 2010, but under the cover of various tax reliefs for citizens, owners of these actions and free brokerage and similar services, citizens are forced to sell these actions within a year. It is not said - they must, but it can also be under the tax relief company and good intentions towards citizens who are in need, Mr Dinkic and G17 again campaign themselves before the upcoming elections, if not the president with direct participation, and the local, province and others. So the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia is in fact an attempt to ensure Mr Dinkic's right to continue working through a pair of state institutions called agencies. Again, it's very important. The three budget variants we received from November 8th to 30th speak of the total amount of budget spending being increased by 100 million, the largest amount again received by Mr Dinkic to give credit to tourism. One part was obtained by Mr. Ilic, something for his projects in infrastructure, and something for that famous item called goods and services. So, at least 14 official messengers have published subsidy regulations that Mr Dinkic shares loans to agriculture, tourism, some of the latest works, production incentives for some new areas, past the law. The state of Serbia has not passed a subsidy law, where all citizens will know what these are criteria for obtaining credit. They are published on every three months of the regulation, which calls on those close to them, who are expected to counter services, to compete and receive loans from Serbian citizens, you make it possible to pay taxes. The basic definition of the budget is to fill it all and spend it chosen. They choose those who lend loans past banks and past that in the theory and practice of known institutions. We don't have banks anymore, at least not business, mostly citizens. Credits in this country are dealt with by the agencies as a feed, in the same way as the resolution ministries. The evidence for this is once again one of the official messengers, where the formation of the government, Mr Dinkic now in the image of the Minister of Economy and Privatisation took over this part of the job as someone who needs to be asked and that according to the people's money, he is a god who decides to distribute state money. Dear citizens, there's only one problem. Not that they don't need the law, but they can make regulations. They only have a problem with the publication of these regulations. If somehow they could put an end to this official messenger, so they don't see who they give or how they give, but they haven't decided on such a step yet. You know why? There's one basic legal maximum that says - ignorance of the law doesn't justify it. So when the law is made public, the one who doesn't know it and doesn't fulfill it, he's guilty of the law. It's because of that part called the money-gathering thing. People are being declared tax laws in the "officer" to pay and to be orderly to the state that by its forced apparatus of power and fines, for all what is called a disorderly reconciliation of obligations towards the state, collects everything from citizens. That's why the official messenger is still being published, so the citizens know what obligations they have to this country. What's this budget? To tell you the truth, dear citizens, I don't know if I can trust these numbers. For 2007. Dinkic proposed a budget with a surplus of 23 billion. For the same state, the same borders, the same people, the same taxes, Mr. Cvetkovic proposed a budget with a deficit of 13 billion. How is that possible? Mr Cvetkovic explained this by not showing the cost to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, saying the stenogram was proof that it was only part of these costs, of more than 20 billion dinars of uninvolved liabilities of four billion put into this budget. I didn't hear the explanation - what about the other undisclosed assets? I want to say this: this budget that's been given here may be trusted, perhaps it can't, because the same citizens, the same state, the same taxes get two different papers. I don't think it's just tech. As a member of the SRS, an MP in parliament, I do not have a legal mechanism to discuss this seriously. I have an income and expenses plan, and that's all. In order to be able to discuss this seriously, I have to have a final account, and I have the last one and I've been carrying it with me since 2006, but there's no revision on it. So, the authorized body and the professional people didn't give their judgment on the truthfulness of the data that was brought here. Why don't I trust this minister or this government? They passed the Law on the State Auditing Institution, for two years they did not form bodies as the law was imposed, and when they founded it, 75 days after the Council was elected, people do not have rooms where they can work. They're sitting in offices somewhere on the fifth floor when they're free. They made their financial plan, with the first task of doing budget audits for 2007, but they had a plan of nearly 300,000 dinars cut in half, so about 150,000 dinars were given to the Auditor's State Institution, and no one had talked to them, even as the Budget System Act requires when the financial plans are made. Does this government ever want anyone to look into her books and check what they're doing, what they're doing, how they're spending money? I do not have the impression, I have proof that by unforming a state audit institution in the right way you want to comply with the law, which is mandatory to provide for and enables an authority called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why doesn't the government want to have a controller in the image of a state audit institution? Since the SDK was abolished, the audit obligation, introduced in 2002, as well as the final account, has been lifted. The government does not want to have control, because it boasts of revolutionary changes in 2001, when they brought all the bills, which are called public revenue accounts, bodies and organisations, together in one account and called a consolidated vault account. Now we need to stay and believe it. Believe me, even I believed from the beginning in the intent and sincerity of the desire to unite all accounts and revenues that the state has and through which it collects taxes. So, she succumbed to one trick, I don't know if she was made on the advice of those who, from the white of all things, were educated for the purpose of coming here and propagating new theories of credit, budgets, prosperity, peace, war, happiness, etc., did they advise you or is it your invention? I don't know who's going to ask for the copyright to do this: yes, it's all in one account. But you're forming para-state agencies that are only on the budget at the first moment. As soon as the next time comes, they come out of the state's wing, out of the congregation and out of the public's eyes, and only full newspaper columns of the press, which we call yellow, and in which some news of how the state funds of the Privatisation Agency are being misused, and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, which is now called the Deposit Insurance Agency. I'm not going to mention any other agency, these two are enough to argue that, regardless of the kind of budget picture and the mass of accounts that the former government of its time, in which the SRS participated for two years alone, and I'm talking about a period of tens of years back, was more fair than you. I claim she was more honest and worked with resources more in the interest of the citizens than you do. So, two agencies have been given the right to finance from their own incomes. It seems quite acceptable. What kind of jobs did they get? The luxuriant, most interesting, most profitable, monopolies, is one that sells our inheritance in the real sector and it's called the Privatisation Agency, and the way it comes to mind, and in bankruptcy, tender, auction, in every possible and impossible way, and the other one has been given the right to sell the financial sector, and now we've artificially crossed it, because it's wanted by donors, one of them is the KFV Bank, that they're called the Deposit Insurance Agency. The government has consciously allowed, impossible for you ministers not to know all the decisions, here in the Sartide affair are now appearing, on behalf of that agency signed by Mr. Labus, where all 31 agree with the release of debts to Sartide on behalf of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. You are not unconscious, you have very consciously allowed these agencies to have no obligation to the government which founded them, that only through board members you have information that is interesting to set up your friends, to give good wages there to your friends and reconciliation I don't know what accounts for everything. The Agency for Bank Rehabilitation has liquidated four of the largest banks and we have never heard of it, and I am the only one who has not yet received an answer to any of the questions, Mr. Minister, which has been referred to the Government, you, the Finance Minister, Mr. Djelic, about what is going on with the funds and jobs and the agency and what is going on with your relations with the National Bank. I don't know why you're not answering me. I feel very hurt, but I'll get the data on that. How much money did these banks have abroad at the time you decided on a warrant, they dictated to you, to liquidate them with a case-to-case method, without any further elaborated ways of removing them. What property did they have? Who sells their art paintings, and even your Ministry of Culture complained that it couldn't because some of them were protected by the state because of their importance. We don't have any information about that. We have even an incredible absurdd that when implementing the privatisation process, the Agency will take the money into its own account and leave it as much as it needs, and then transfer the change from what is called the privatisation contract to the contracting authority, the government, the state, the budget. Mr. Minister, I have submitted to the amendment that you, as Minister, are also asking that the privatisation funds go to the budget, so that only then, according to your approval, they can settle the costs that you approve. You, as Minister, answer here on behalf of the Government for the Finance of a State. You cannot give us alleged accounts of clean accounts and inflows of funds without telling us what property the state of Serbia has left. So, when you say the loan is good, and it's not expenditure and it's not a commitment to the state, because it's going to be made and bought, please tell me which property is increased in the balance sheet of the Republic of Serbia's assets. Please explain to the citizens where the two agencies have the right to do exclusive jobs and no one is accounted for. As I hope that one day for the National Savings Bank, the one who made it possible for a little more and a perfect robbery, by giving the SDK space to that institution, which is deliberately and falsely called national, to create a delusion among people that the state is behind it and that it is given the most profitable and interesting job to do, which is to pay off the old foreign currency savings. The nuances are different between what these two agencies are doing and what the National Savings Bank did. Your revolutionary dossage discovery, one bill, is a hollow story. Most of the money goes past the public eye in capital matters. If I have to define this budget, it can come down to one sentence -- you're selling out our inheritance with this budget, and you're ruining the future of the next generations. You spend your privatisation paying off your deficits. And where the money goes, those who need to preserve the coalition. You take loans that you don't ask what the price is, what the terms and conditions will be invested in. But they remain as a commitment to the budget not only to take credits, but also to the guarantees you give on these loans, and here in this new budget, tens of billions of liabilities, it creates a commitment to you, the citizens of Serbia, this state, by providing guarantees for loans that will take some infrastructures, some railways, etc. What's very interesting about this? A country that spends our future taking loans, you know how it behaves? Like an entrepreneur who connects or lobbyists who connect banks and credit users. My peers will remember that 90 and some years of investment with the EPS was buying out the bonds and showing up some gentleman, whom I'm not going to name here, who was simply an entrepreneur, connected banks and EPS, and he didn't care if the banks would charge the loan and at what price the EPS would cash the bond. He was getting a commission. That's how the state behaves in approving these loans, like a broker who takes a commission and doesn't care about anything else. Why do I say that, where's your public debt management? Where is the organisation which is legally obliged to assess the foreign exchange risk, because banks are required to have only 30% of their portfolio so burdened not to get in trouble. Then what about the state? Today you defend us that inflation is 9.5% because of drought, oil prices, etc. Mr. Jelasic defends himself for making such and such a loss because there were some unpredictable circumstances. That's not true. You have to predict the circumstances because the Budgetary System Act obliges you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13717	Mr. Vice President Djelic, welcome, please listen to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13718	I really don't know why Mr. Vice President deserved such an honor to be especially represented, except by that title he won - the Duke of Meridian Bank. I appreciate the Duke, not these from the Meridian Bank, but come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13719	Please, Mrs. Tabakovic, now you've broken some manners.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13720	Let's move on. What kind of loans does the state, for which it hides what the prices are, what are the interest, what is what is called effective interest and for what? The National Bank warns all citizens when it says, don't take credit in Swiss francs, save in dinars, you know, for euros it's possible there's some risk. They don't say Euribor has a growth trend. And they won't find out what the cost of the loan is when we take it from KFW. I'm not going to waste my time right now, but I'm going to show you the mandatory cost specification for one of those loans when Germany is a development bank, so a German state bank that finances the export of its producers to us as a state, borrowing loans, selling us German goods, for what it spends money on. It requires our companies to rent space, buy cars for their reference in the way they use money, buy equipment in computers, even mobile phones. Believe it or not, 10% of the loans this intermediary owes us, which is called the state and which is talking about development, goes to what's called a luxury in the functioning of office clerks. This is the kind of loan you owe us, and what's the effect? We don't, you're in the memoranda and you admit, even the stagnation of employment, we have a 2.1% employment decline. What is this development that does not allow employment? What progress and improvement are discussed, if people don't have a job, if you sell out your inheritance by privatizing, if you destroy the future in advance with loans, and you don't create jobs for new people. I'd like to hear someone tell me - the development budget. What kind of development budget is this where I don't see where some new job is going to be open? You know exactly what it says, when 100 million from variant number 2, this is the third one we're talking about today, it focuses on tourism, Mr Dinkic, and one part on the railways. Someone will think, well, they'll be happy too, but it has nothing to do with Mr. Ilic, it has to do with one of the loans we recently adopted here, and for the railways, and where the condition was to keep the subsidies to the company they're lending to. So these top friends from the European Union, these international financial institutions, they don't allow us to subsidise agricultural production, but they allow subsidies to those enterprises where they lend loans, so these loans can come back. Mr. Cvetkovic left, and I'd like to ask him if last night Mr. Krasic gave a definition of who was a dactylographer, and who was the coffee cook when the Security Service Act was done, I have no dilemma here who dictated the budget. I don't have that dilemma here. The gentleman who has enjoyed the benefits of Belgrade's air here for years, Dedinj, a beautiful villa and walks on the Belgrade-Pogorica route, is very small in growth, and from the IMF he is delegated here to lecture us on the alleged way out of the crisis and his name is Harold Hirschofer. A regular visitor is always standing on the right or Mr. Djelic or Cvetkovic, wherever they appear, a gentleman with such a small beard, I don't believe he has 40 kilos of wardrobe, so tiny, you'll notice him. From 2001 to today, the IMF is preparing for the absence of subsidies, the destruction of domestic production and the training of this debt state, remember dear citizens. Remember, the most important thing is to qualify us in line for loans, so they have a place to place their money. Even one of the following laws that goes with this budget is called - allowing funds from something called the IPA Fund to be withdrawn, means the European Union's access fund, but we are asked to provide 15 to 25% of our resources for these loans. As the government gentlemen here deliver to us in a budget in one place, it is budgeted that the deficit funds, meaning the missing funds, will be covered from privatisation incomes, loans, donations and financial assets of the budget. Do you, gentlemen of the citizens, say I have 300 dinars, from which I've saved 20 dinars, 150 dinars I sold my father's field, and I got a gift from my aunt 80 dinars? Who keeps it in one place by one nature of means? You claim to be a deficit, meaning a lack of funds in the budget, covered by credit, donation and sale of people's assets, and nothing like anything. Dear citizens, I even thought that the budget was withdrawn from the agenda, as Mr Djelic was present here on 30th of last month to sign a donation with a certain Mirel on unsolicited billions of euros. I was really happy, but according to the RTS system, the news went half way into two parts. That day, a billion were said and the purposes were given, changes, infrastructures, etc. After a few days, news came -- in five years, in the first only 187m euros, and first use in 2009. The documentation will be submitted in 2008. Don't argue, because I have a statement file here, and the first funds can be withdrawn and in our budget only in 2009, so the story of that and that kind of help is really humiliating for all citizens, because it doesn't count that we have the awareness that we're receiving average information, but we're told -- you're going to get a billion, and then it turns out, but only in the third year. That way, and I'm so untrustworthy and all the information that's been provided here and just, since I'm running out of time, I want to point out a few things. The government plans to even raise less money from taxis next year than it collected in 2006. It plans to raise only three billion from gambling, and in 2005, it raised 2.6 billion. You see, this 9.5% inflation and how long it was two years ago, so can citizens trust you to collect your gambling income almost as much as you did three years ago? Where's that Mr. Kristo, some kind of genius who raised the lottery to his feet? You citizens learn to gamble, to get donations without conditions. Mr. Djelic, you know, what's seemingly free, the most expensive cost of both the state and every single person. That's what the experience has shown. You today, when gambling is opened on every corner of every corner, when every daily newspaper has some code for the prize game, when you think happiness can be bought overnight, not by working to secure the future, you predict here to raise only three billion funds. What concerns me especially, as you waste the future, you sell out the past, so you do not show us the compensation for natural treasures from item 741, 742. We have no idea if you've been charging those to whom you sold the factories for mineral raw materials, for the mineral treasure, for the woods and everything that goes, and it's not the subject of privatisation. So, all that's yours is very skillful, so late to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, report a resale of actions, of which we don't know where the tax on the transfer of absolute rights was, but what's state you don't give for free. I'm sure these incomes here from natural wealth fees aren't shown not because you forgot to charge them, but because some other terms and conditions certainly went beyond this budget. What you were planning to collect, your biggest item is through customs. That's what you did liberalized in 2001, and that's what only importers live right in this country. In this you help them with alleged and occasional disputes, along with Jelasic, creating and playing the course as if we were little children, as if we didn't know we had to iron out the result of the Commercial Bank, which you here in the budget are supposed to give her a donation and at the same time take credit from her to buy an embassy in Brussels. The embassy in Brussels is to be bought, but from the money the budget has, not to give to the Commercial Bank and the Post Office Savings, whose complete management due to abuse of office lies in prison. If it's from you, it's too much, and I'm gonna keep this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13721	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then a National MP, Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then a National MP, Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13722	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. Since Mrs Tabakovic was quite extensive, I will remind you of what this is about. In a negative context, it is again mentioned both New Serbia and NS President Velimir Ilic. It is clear why it is and why Velimir Ilic is otherwise targeted both these days and opposition parties, and others, above all because of the results he had. Mrs Tabakovic said something that has serious problems regarding logic. Look what it's all about. If I remember correctly, and if you remember what you said, it turns out that Minister Ilic is either whaled or boasted about the results of the work, as if he was spending his money. It's a paraphrase of what you said. I don't know what a minister who's two years in a row was supposed to do as the most successful minister in the government, but not only by some agencies, but also by citizens. That's number one. The second thing, was the minister supposed to be sitting in the government, leaving some few billion unscheduled, after you say, "What was that minister doing when the rest of his money was untapped?" Of course what we adopt here, which is an integral part of this book that you know well, will not slow it down for you, which is called the budget, and that it is an essential and essential thing both the Government and the Ministry. The second thing, I said, not only was he the most successful minister of the past two years, it is probably this information from last night or last night -- that Minister Ilic will run for Serbian President, something that is quite disturbing to you, given the electoral body and the mood of citizens towards Minister Ilic, anywhere he appeared, from Jasa Tomic, down in Paracino, in Babusnica and at all the rinks in Serbia, etc. And the fact that they are 3,000km of asphalt and road infrastructure, which has been the most done in Serbia since 1945, is something that citizens know and recognize, and which will probably now be valorised in the upcoming elections. Third, it seems to me that you have both resented and why there is an urgent motion to amend the Law on Public Roads. I believe every well-intentioned person knows that. It has nothing to do with Minister Ilic and the Ministry of Infrastructure, but it has to do with the fact that the major debts of JP Roads of Serbia, and also has to do with the fact that the revenues from excise duties, which went to Serbia's Ways, are practically rerouted on the basis of VAT obligations. This was clear to the government, and in the end, it resulted in one agreement and it was a law that would only benefit all citizens and not one ministry. Of course, I do not argue with you that you have the right to attack and in a negative context mention some minister, party leaders, but obviously it is now only one already expressed fear of competition in these elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13723	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13724	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to wait a moment, I'm so scared I'd have to settle down that I could address the assembly and the MPs. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that you have already been informed that the Administrative Board has sent requests to many agencies, public undertakings and boards to deliver the amounts of their monthly earnings. I informed you about Bea, who delivered this information, but she marked it as a state secret, so we, in accordance with the law and acted and haven't yet announced the sums of BIA's salary. Also, we got the NIS response, but only by order of the Commissioner for Public Information, but they marked this information as a business secret. However, you will see, in accordance with the law of Article 38 - duty to keep a business secret, I believe that information is such that I have the right to inform the Serbian Parliament and citizens. It is said - information whose publication is mandatory in accordance with the law or which in connection with the violation of the law of good business practice or the principle of business morality, in particular this business morality, including information which is suspected of corruption, is particularly suspected of the possibility of corruption, cannot be considered as a business secret company and the publication of this information is legal if it aims to protect public interest. I think it's meant to protect the public interest. I'd like to ask you this time while I've been reading to take away from me. Now, we've received an answer from the Oil Industry of Serbia, but according to that old folk, I've already told you about that bass between foxes and storks, so they're sending the answer, but they don't specify what the salaries are or the directors, or the chairman of the Management Board, or the president of the Assembly, or the members. Believe me, here's the Duke of Meridian's bank will be amazed when he hears how big they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13725	Mr. Todorovic, please take care of the terminology of the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13726	So the Duke came in with his hands up, all happy when we greeted him here, why are you upset about it? He's risking these 11m euros he's got, one day he's gonna have to answer, but they're not risking anything. Be careful, the director of NIS, chairman of the board of directors, has 10 average earnings in NIS. According to information from the yellow lines, between 50,000 and 60,000 average earnings in NIS. This means that the director and chairman of the board of directors have between 500,000 and 600,000 monthly salaries. The president of the Assembly, members of the Assembly, Vice-President of the Management Board, deputy, see how many million per month only goes to salaries in Serbia's Oil Industry. That's the problem our country is facing and has to solve. That's the thing we have to push to the end, especially when it comes to the fact that a large number of public enterprises have not delivered their answers. He also intervened with the Republic's Information Trustee. Now I warn them again to deliver. It is the Elektroditivation of Belgrade, Elektrovovodina, Elektrodistribution Kraljevo, Kragujevac Centre, South East Nis. The public firm NIS - Petrol, I'm guessing there's no poverty pay there either. Public enterprise The Ways of Serbia. It would be interesting if those who worked, built, etc. The delivery of data that the money was doing this for a month. So, like RTB Bor. These are things that are of national, state, public interest. I call them on this occasion to forward the information as soon as possible, in order to allow the Assembly, MPs to take a stand and ask those who have placed them in those places, without any responsibility, for us to find a moduso to compare their salaries to the economic strength of our country and the average salaries of our citizens, not their public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13727	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I would only have to add that the board members had insight into receiving the Security Information Agency. You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13728	Mr. Chairman, don't let the MPs, what you didn't understand, because of the Parliament, not because of you. The Management Board has acted in accordance with the Official Secret Act. All the members of the Administrative Board had the opportunity to see what the salary was, but it had no right to MPs, until the official secret was removed. So I didn't say for one moment that the members of the Administrative Board were not familiar with the amount of monthly compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13729	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13730	Mr Albianic, I appeal to Article 226, so at first tell me if I should read the whole article or if it is understood that I have read it, given that one of the MPs has just objected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13731	You don't need to read, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13732	So I need an explanation and a notice. Now, I've got a problem under Article 226 that I'm looking for. The president of the National Assembly isn't here. I can ask the chairman of the board of directors, I don't know about these things who might be in charge, so I've come to the conclusion that I should ask this Chief Commander of the Republic Labour Inspector. I think he should come over and explain some things to us here. I don't know if you've noticed, there's been an apparent fatigue in the material today. All those who voted in a very warm voice last night, as Mrs. Hope said, hasten these points, to join together, we have 12 points on the agenda, but three points we only have, all those who asked for a merger have escaped. I expect that in this debate, this party that applauded, they come out one by one within their prescribed time and explain the item to us by item, and the material for this session, and it's about like this. And explain to us when they read it. I think it would be good for the president of the Republic to help them since they're his. But I came to the conclusion today when I watched this agency news that our President of the Republic can't read. His thought statement on Kosovo and Metohija is that we will ask the Security Council for an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice. Inform the uninformed, so I see as soon as he hangs out with Kostunica and he loses his mind, that the Republic of Serbia can ask for that opinion, he doesn't need a Security Council. So, he only had to read one member in front of the International Court of Justice statute and see that Serbia could seek the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion whether Resolution 1244 allows independent Kosovo and Metohija. Look at the problems when we're getting tired of the material. There's evidence of fatigue in the material here. Those who suggested that this debate go this way, just to remind you, at 01.20 this morning, they voted, set the agenda and, of course, escaped, they are not there at 12:00 to make a constructive contribution to this debate as to what this budget looks like, whether something can be done or cannot be done. Now, Mr. Albianic, stop there. Since Mrs. Hope has asked to increase the time for discussion twice and that it has been voted, count on twice as much time for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13733	No, Mr. Krasic, it's been voted twice as long to discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13734	That you will injure the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13735	No, sorry, no, don't break the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13736	Don't apologize to me, you have so many failures about the Rules of Procedure that it's a disaster and an interpretation. So, the one who asked to vote twice the time for discussion, since seven points are within one debate, is understood... (President: It is not understood, Mr. Krasic, that is not the parallel right for you to say what is one thing and what is another. )......................................................................................................... Okay, you want to show some culture. (Chairman: You're out of time. You guys should show culture, Mr. Krasic. ) Let me explain to you, Mr. Albianic, when the time for discussion is increased to double, then the chances of making a breach of the Rules of Procedure are twice as high as the chance of harming the Rules of Procedure. Then there is also the need to use it twice as long to explain what kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure is being looked at. Now, if you're so stuck, then I'd ask you to understand this people's saying, for many, it can be true, but especially for you. There's a nice saying that says, if you're staring so well, then change your clothes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13737	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is an honor to you, Mr. Krassic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, except for the oil industry of Serbia, BIA, also requested data for Serbia's Elektroprivreda. He's in Kragujevac, the so-called Kragujevac. The regional centre for three administrative districts and we, MPs of the SRS, primarily Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Professor Poscurica and my smallness, together with other colleagues from the government, have advocated it and given our signatures to support it. For many reasons, not only the economic but technical nature, because of the centre which is able to carry out the transmission, distribution of electricity, which is located in Kragujevac and its surroundings. However, the fact that members primarily of the DSS, but of course by reputation of you from the "yellow" company, have abused it, also says that immediately after the establishment of the regional center of Elektroprivreda Kragujevac, so-called. Electroschumadiums followed a rapid rise in the salaries of the directors and those managers, as they declared themselves to be around him. Mr. Djordjevic, director of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, according to information received by Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as chairman of the Administrative Board, has, no less, than a basic salary of 300,000 dinars, and then, with all this, you probably know, overtime while driving here or there. The travel expenses, the equipment of the fleets, the rage of drunken billionaires in their cabinets, I can't and can't make it this time to tell you. However, as for Elektroprivreda Kragujevac and the Director General, Ivan Savčić, last year, he, from when he came to the director's office to the time when he went to print this brochure that I'm going to talk about, increased his weight 20 to 30 kilograms, special cards for business lunches, and everything that goes with the function of the director of a regional center of Electrodistribution brought him no less than a salary of 220 thousand dinars. How insolent in the kidnapping and thieving, in boast, is the fact that the electricity industry of the Kragujevac region printed a brochure last year called the Analytical Assessment of the value of the job. Imagine how valuable they are, he basically 220 thousand, his deputy from 150 to 180 thousand, comes this fleet and all these lunches and all these routes that they have every day or every other day. And imagine how insolent and insolent it is, for those who have a high professional standing, who are 30 years old, have announced his salary, depending on his job, whether he has a steering function or lower, that salary is between 40,000 and 50,000 dinars, and only to that amount have they published in the brochure pompously printed and with the director on the cover of what the salaries are employed. He's gone, because you know what it says, everything's still secret, the man is the manager and all the thieves around him. Mr. Albianic, I'd like to ask you to be so patient, I'm talking about a serious matter, I guess as a MP, with the post of vice president, you'll be interested in how much a thief there is in this country, or you'll be silent and silent in front of that fact. Mr. Djelic, I assume you've come to this room to tell us about it, not some of your successes. Speaking of which, Mr. Djelic, you're the Duke of Meridian Bank, don't get carried away, that was in an ugly way, because of the kidnapping at Meridian Bank. Now, for your sake and for the sake of the public of Serbia, five years after or six, I'm going to stand up... (President: Can you stop, Miss Jovanovic, the time is up. )......................................................................................................... Just let me tell Mr. Djelic and I'm done. So the characters in Disney cartoons are really colorful. I was wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13739	We don't want to talk about cartoons, Miss Jovanovic. Time's up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 225 and 226, to remind the gentlemen of New Serbia, given that they promoted their candidate for the first round of presidential elections here for a moment, because the second one certainly won't enter, when the minister was in the past term and when Dinkic introduced the VAT, they said in Serbia that VAT means "half give Veli".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13741	Mr. Markovic, please take care of what you say at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13742	Please, I'm talking about what Serbian citizens are saying, I'm a representative of the people. Let's remind ourselves, did Mr. Velija Ilic give the Belgrade-Sabotica highway concession? Is the concessionist supposed to keep that highway up and build bridges and build that other lane? In this budget for this year, the state of Serbia is scheduled to repay the loan, reminding the MPs, in the last term, the state has become a guarantee of a loan that has been taken over to build a bridge at Beška, 122 or 126m euros. This year, the state of Serbia to maintain the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, because there is no highway further from Novi Sad than half the highway, will single out 11692.198 euros. When Mr. Dragan Todorovic talked about salaries for a little while, he forgot to say who the favourite in Serbia was. Flight control, ladies and gentlemen, Nikola Stankov, the son-in-law of the DS, has 1,600,000 salaries. Every year, he buys 15 to 20 angry cars for flight control. Between 800 and 1,200 flights, past the summer season, fly across the territory of the Serbian state, and up to 1,800 in the summer season when the tourist season is, times several hundred euros per flight and says, the state of Serbia has no right to that kind of money. That money is used by Flight Control, stock company or d.d. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, while we are deluded by other things, the state is being robbed to the bone. I've asked a parliamentary question, please, I'm quoting my parliamentary question now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13743	Don't quote. Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13744	Don't, please, I asked a parliamentary question three times, I didn't get an answer once. I ask a parliamentary question: will anyone from this country be in control of the financial operations of Flight Control and whether those thieves, who by six or seven couples already have motor sleds, will come to an end. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior to take immediate action to prevent another of the incredible robberies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13745	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Dear People's MPs, please, we have twice the time to discuss the budget as the most important law of the year. So I'm really asking you, we have plenty of time for a good debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13746	Mr. Albianic, it's a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. Here's the thing. I appreciate that whoever suggested that the debate lasts twice as long has twice as many reasons why he should explain this set of laws that he brilliantly designed to be one part of the agenda. Just to remind the public, it is the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, then the draft law on the budgetary system, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act and a similar law on administrative fees. I really appreciate that the DS has concluded that there is a reason to use time twice as much to explain why we need to vote for these changes, but we need to remind you, every year when the budget law is passed, these laws change. How much more do we change those laws? I've come to the conclusion that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has proposed twice as much time, because this is probably a relatively permanent change of these regulations, I don't count on the budget law, I'm counting on these others, because finally the horns in the bag have somehow agreed and taken a position on how it should look in the future. If that weren't the case, then the message would be completely different, it would be about: the government acts like a man with a sneeze, gets a spill, so he can't say anything. You see the scenario, 45 minutes here we've been told by a man who has diarrhea, and then he was replaced by a man, vice president of the government, who has a sneeze and these flying changes change all the time. What do we do? Where's enough? In addition, you see for yourself, in continuity it's been working for days longer than eight hours a day and, of course, some ministers mess up here, start all sorts of things to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13747	Mr. Krassic, please, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13748	Mr. Albianic, I know you have a negative relationship with our sayings, but our sayings are wise, they're the result of what's happened for centuries, so since the experience has been laid down for centuries, the rule has arisen. Don't attack our sayings. As soon as you attack one of our people's sayings, then you know how the audience laughs when they hear what you're saying. In our people's sayings, that's the case. You provoke me, and when I tell you, you get angry. Calm down, you're young, you're gonna pay for that apartment on the lease, and then you're gonna war on your party, she probably won't exist then. So I expect a more active approach to those who have proposed twice as much time for discussion. I expect constructiveness, I expect high-minded discussions. Here comes Mr. Columnist, I expect him to speak here for at least 60 minutes, 65 minutes. You better make money here talking than writing columns. I'm asking you to come out and clean up, so we can see if it's a stronger sneezing or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13749	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13750	Mr. Albianic, I really wouldn't answer, but Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Djelic insists. So, Mr. Djelic, it's one who doesn't know anything about nephews or anyone around, who bathes in sacks of steam every day; it's you, Baja duck.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13751	Miss Jovanovic, it's really not appropriate, it doesn't make sense. We can't do that in the congregation. Now you expect me to make a note or something, there's no point in doing that. The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13752	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday, by the same member of parliament, I asked for information on how much did Minister Sutanovac allocate money for five buses that were taken by a group of soldiers from Topcider to a concert last night and how much, if paid for these tickets, was allocated from the Ministry of Defence on behalf of those tickets? I asked for an urgent answer because today we are talking about the budget of the Republic of Serbia and of course it is important for us to know how the ministers spend their money, especially in the fact that we are not on the agenda of what is common before the budget, the final budget account for the previous year. It's something that's been a practice in a civilized world, which has been forgotten here since 2000. Since I didn't get any answers from the president of parliament, although I asked him to inform the minister, I received new information that several buses went from Banjica, that the students of the Military Academy were given a work assignment, that they were obliged to go to that concert by those buses, which the ministry paid for, and here's also the question: how much did these buses cost, how much did those tickets cost? Military Academy students usually can't get buses when they go to military exercises, especially not as luxurious as those who went to last night's concert. As EU Council ministers debated Kosovo and Metohija yesterday and made a terrible decision that Cyprus, which was the only one for Serbia's integrity, would force it to declare itself to support Kosovo on its own, as your entire EU has definitely and openly said, we knew that and therefore we have long said that Serbia does not need the EU. So while they were dealing with the problem of Kosovo, our president, we see in the papers, actually the president of the DS, sang euphorically at that concert last night. I don't know if the Shooter bought him a ticket, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13753	The Messenger of the people is Radisha Ilic, then the Messenger of the people, Balint the Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, based on what the New Serbia MP said, I think his last name is Belic, about the effect of Velimir Ilic in Paracino. He probably thinks of what Velimir Ilic promised the citizens of Paracin municipality and the municipality of Cupri after a terrible explosion on October 19th 2006. To tell the public and the MPs, as far as Paracina's total damage of 200 million dinars is concerned, only 45 million dinars have been paid so far. Velimir Ilic appeared there on behalf of the Serbian government and promised the citizens of the Paracin municipality that the damage would be settled very quickly. We've been seeing her for over a year now, and there's nothing going on since that settlement. As for the municipality of Cupri, I have a list of damaged persons, equal to 2,500 people still have not received the promised settlement from Minister Velimir Ilic. In total, in the municipality of Cupri, only the government of Serbia remained in debt to 12,283,500 dinars. As far as business facilities are concerned, the total damage is over 100 million dinars. As we can see, Velimir Ilic has come, appeared, promised to the citizens and has not fulfilled his promises according to his custom. This time I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Velimir Ilic to finally make peace with the citizens in the maritime municipalities what he promised on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for Velimir Ilic, as he is true in his promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13755	The word has been made by Parliament MP Balint Pastor, president of the minority parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Pastor, first according to the Rules of Procedure, so continue your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13756	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I would like to talk about the issue on the agenda, which is the draft budget law for 2008. Mr. Vice President, do I have your permission to keep talking about the agenda? (President: here you go, Mr. Pastor, thank you. ) Thank you very much. The SVM will not support the 2008 draft budget law, i.e. we will vote against the proposed budget. In short, I will present our reasons for voting against the proposed budget. First, there are some formal reasons. I was hoping I wouldn't have to talk about the formal reasons. I talked about the formal reasons in June, when this National Assembly passed the Budget Law for 2007, but unfortunately I was forced to talk about some formal issues about the 2008 budget. That the draft budget law did not reach the Assembly until 1 November, but was done with a few days of delay and therefore we would not make a problem. The problem was that around mid-November, the draft budget was withdrawn, and the obvious reason for that was that before the budget was passed, laws were passed which are a prerequisite for calling presidential elections. There's a problem, because the slogan DS was – life can't wait. It seems life can wait, according to the DS, the most important thing is that we have elections for the President of the Republic, the DS seems to think that the main objective of the existence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is to participate in elections as voters and that is not good. It is not good either because we, as a National Assembly, are going to break the law, because it will not be possible to pass the budget law until December 15th, but it will not be the blame of the National Assembly, but rather the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I could say that at least now the budget is not passed in June, but passed in December, as in all normal European countries, and perhaps we should be grateful to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for delivering the draft budget law in November or December. Speaking of formal issues, I am sorry that Mr Cvetkovic is not here right now, because I would like to say that it is a good thing that he, as Minister of Finance, has offered a conversation with the parliamentary groups, that he has held talks with parliamentary groups on the 2008 draft budget, and that is a very good practice, and that is how other ministers from his responsibilities should behave, when it comes to some important proposals of the law, to hold talks with parliamentary groups before the bill comes to the agenda of the National Assembly. So much for formal problems, that is, formal issues. In essence, I should say that this proposed 2008 budget is higher by 58 billion dinars compared to the 2007 budget, that the deficit is higher by a billion and 100 million dinars compared to the 2007 budget. We can immediately see that there is a very large public spending, and that is not primarily because there are millions and 300,000 pensioners in the Republic of Serbia and not because of all the employees, because wages are not everywhere high. I would like to quote one data from the daily Politika, several months ago, that in 1990 the average salary was 389 euros, and in 2007, it was only 353 euros. So big public spending is not because of pensioners, it's not because of all employees, it's primarily because the state and public enterprises spend more than they should and should. Another data, the gross social product is two thousand eight hundred billion dinars, and we can say immediately that the 2008 budget will be 23.5% of gross social product, and in 2001 it was 15.5%. So that's one very negative trend: in 2001 only 15.5%, and in 2008, it's going to be 23.5%. This is because of high public spending, and public spending accounts for 44% of national income. The problem is that large public spending endangers investment. Investments will be down in a few years. These indicators will be worse because privatisation, which continues this year under the law, will likely take place next year if the parliament adopts a draft law on changes and additions to the Privatisation Law by the end of the year. If that doesn't happen by the end of the year, then privatisation will be extended, unfortunately, illegally and without legal basis. The solution would be to reduce public spending and reduce the balance of payments deficits, but this budget does not contribute to bringing these objectives closer. Instead of public spending, it would be good if we could talk from this place about innovation. As far as budgeting is concerned, I must say that the income tax amounts to, according to plans in 2008, 72 billion dinars. It is now expanding the circle of the person who will pay income tax, based on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. So 72 billion in income tax, and as far as corporate income tax is concerned, that's only 34 billion dinars. As for value added tax in the country, it is slightly less than 100 billion, and as far as VAT is concerned from imports, which is 205.5 billion dinars. What is the conclusion, or what is the discussion about budgeting? The conclusion may be that there is still a huge share of the grey economy, because imports cannot, or it is difficult to avoid tax payments, and in the country's VAT, this is unfortunately not the case, so there is this huge disproportion, that VAT from imports is 205.5 billion, and VAT in the country is just over 100 billion dinars. As far as corporate income tax is concerned, this figure, or sum of 34 billion dinars, is one extremely small sum. Of course, it's a good thing in Europe may be the lowest corporate tax rate in Serbia, but the problem is that this type of tax almost nobody pays, or very small number of enterprises, so the company's profit tax is 34 billion and the citizen's income tax is 72 billion dinars. As for the conclusions regarding these economic, or macroeconomic figures, it is neither developmental nor social this budget, it is one general place, but unfortunately that conclusion stands. Of course it's more social, because it's bought to a certain extent social peace, as it was done ten, 15 years ago. It's not a developmental budget, because it's a huge public spending that goes to the heart of investment, and the budget is to some extent the election budget. Mr Cvetkovic said in the first half of November, as finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that this budget proposal is the best possible in the given socio-political conditions. What does that mean? That means Mr. Cvetkovic, as an expert, doesn't think this budget is good. That is what the Serbian translation must say. If the best possible in the given socio-political conditions, this means that the finance minister, as an expert, disagrees with the draft budget he explained several hours ago in the National Assembly. As far as budget expenditure is concerned, unfortunately, I have to say, that is to say, to present the same sentence that I made in June, when we discussed the 2007 draft budget, that, for science or environmental protection in Serbia, there is still a small amount planned against the huge amounts to finance the needs of the military or police, or those ministries that we say are the ministries of force. As for the MUP, the ministry will have 41 billion dinars. The BIA will have 3.4 billion, the defence ministry will have 65.3 billion dinars, and the National Assembly will have only 2.2 billion dinars. What are these numbers talking about? These figures speak of the fact that the National Assembly is practically the only state body that has reduced its costs, which will cut its costs in 2008, and has not done so by the Ministry of Defence, has not done the BIA, has not done it. Let me remind you, the National Assembly will have 2.2 billion in 2008, and last year, this year, it has 3.6 billion dinars. It's a good thing the National Assembly will have less money next year, but it's not a good thing it won't be like that for these big ministries. I'd like to say one number that's funny, that's the budget of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, that's just 291 million dinars. The MUP will have 61 billion, the Ministry of Defence 65 billion, BIA 3.4 billion, and the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society only 291 million dinars. To make things worse, this ministry has 600m dinars this year, so the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society will have half the amount of the current budget year. As much as Serbia wants to be a modern state, as Serbia wants to invest, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, in innovation. As far as the Ministry of Science is concerned, this ministry will have 8.2 billion, the Ministry of Agriculture only 22 billion, along with forestry and water industry. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija will have 5.8 billion, and this year it was 3.7. This is a pretty big raise. As for the Anti-Corruption Council, the council will have only 13 million dinars, with 13 million and 700,000 dinars in 2007. So this anti-corruption council will have fewer in 2008 compared to the figures it has had this current financial year. So much for how much the government of the Republic of Serbia sees as a key problem fighting corruption, regardless of the fact that one of the five priorities of the government of Mr. Kostunica is fighting corruption. The Commission's responsibility for human rights violations, i.e. the Lustration Commission, will have only 400,000 dinars. It's not a mistake, only 400,000 dinars. The Ministry of Culture, which is one of the last data I'm going to bring out, will have 6.3 billion dinars, along with cultural institutions. The government of the Republic of Serbia has committed ten times less money to culture than the money this government wants to spend on the needs of the military, or defence. Ten times less culture than the army. I must also say that they are still not financed from the Republic budget of the cultural institutions of national minorities. As for this 6.3 billion dinar figure for the Ministry of Culture, together with the institutions of culture, I have to say it's not even 1% of the budget. According to UNESCO data, only the state is considered a civilised country that is at least 1% of the budget intended for cultural purposes. According to these data, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia in 2008 will not be a civilized country. As for the EU's Association Office, this office will have 79 million, just over 3 million more than the Office for Media Cooperation. As much as this government, whose vice-president Mr Bozidar Djelic, sees as an important goal of approaching the EU. The EU Association Office 79m, and the Office for Media Cooperation 76m. I don't get it. As for the increase in the amount for the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, there is the biggest difference between the planned amounts in 2007 and the planned amounts in 2008. Exports to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister have increased by more than two and a half times. As far as denationalisation is concerned, it is not clear to me, firstly, that it is possible that no law on denationalisation was passed in 2007, but I am even less clear as possible, Mr Djelic, that no single dinar was planned for denationalisation in the 2008 budget. This means, according to this, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not consider the adoption of a law on denationalisation even in 2008, regardless of all pre-election promises since 2000 and beyond in all elections so far. As for the readmission, a few weeks ago, we were talking about reading. We said in front of the SVM that we do not understand how the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Readmission Agreement may state that there is no need for budgetary resources to implement the Readmission Agreement. This was so unfortunately adopted in the National Assembly, but I must also say that, regardless of the fact that from 1 January 2008 until the end of March 2009, between 60,000 and 150,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are illegally staying in the EU will return to Serbia, no funds have been planned in this budget to implement this agreement. The readmission agreement reads, Mr Djelic, that all these people will return from 1 January 2008 to 31 March 2009. The SVM criticised the readmission agreement precisely because quotas were not foreseen, unlike previous bilateral agreements between Serbia and some EU countries that had predicted quotas. The agreement, unfortunately, does not foresee quotas, but writes literally that this process will end by 31 March 2008, and no single dinar is planned for the cost of implementing the Readmission Agreement in the 2008 budget. It is true that there are planned funds for nine new employees in the Human and Minority Rights Service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is also responsible for the readmission process, and that is a good thing that has been done, but no funds have been planned to implement the readmission in order to provide funds for the reintegration of these people who will return to the Republic of Serbia within 15 months. As far as subsidies are concerned, someone here has already said that the railway is worth 10.6 billion dinars, and 17.3 billion dinars are planned for agriculture, for a culture of 950 million. It is not clear to me what the funds planned for the railway will be spent on, when the suspension of the line between Subotica and Senta, a line that is very important, primarily for students, high school students and from Subotica in Sent, can be easily reached by train, i.e. the Shinobus, and is now planning to abolish this line. I have to tell you that this line exists for a long time, railway line, enough to say one very interesting fact that this line passed the Orient Express, it was Paris - Subotica - Senta - Kikinda - Bucharest etc. It is now planned to cut the line between Saturday and Sainta, and 10.6 billion dinars are planned for the railway. These subsidies do not contribute to investment and innovation but to consumption. As for the subsidies for agriculture and the situation of agricultural producers, I would like to say, that I remind you all, that this year, Vojvodina, and not only Vojvodina, but all of Serbia, was struck by an unremembered drought. The agricultural producers pointed to this in June and July. Agricultural producers also wrote to the Prime Minister, both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. Of course, those letters were not answered. And some parties also wrote similar letters, let's say, on 10 August 2007, SVM sent a letter, among other things, to Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, where we pointed out this unremembered drought, that it was an elemental disaster that caused particularly serious consequences for warfare, livestock and fruit production. That the average yields of soy, corn and sunflower, according to experts, are down from 30 to 50%, and up to 70%, and we asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to react, because simply, if life cannot wait, then I can't wait for farmers. It is simply not possible that this government does not want to deal with the problems of agricultural producers. Mr. Djelic, only in the municipalities of Subotica, Kanjiza, Novi Knezevic, Mali Ijjoš and Backo Topola are the consequences of damages of around 7.5 billion dinars, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has not singled out a single dinar to deal with the effects of droughts until the day-to-day. I have to say that the SVM has proposed one amendment that we suggest that the result of the drought is estimated to be at least billions of dinars, in order to sort of resolve the consequences. It is really not clear to me how it is possible that agricultural producers have not received a single dinar from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and when the flood damage occurred in central Serbia, then the next day, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted and allocated these people 48 million dinars. It's a good thing she did that. It was meant to do so, to react in good time, and to give these funds to people who suffered the effects of the flood. It is simply not clear to me why yet, and now in mid-December, farmers and dinars have not been given from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When agricultural producers in the north of Vojvodina staged a protest, the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the Minister of Agriculture, sent members of the gendarmes and this shows what the current government is like to address citizens' life problems. I really don't understand why they sent the gendarmes instead of the Minister of Agriculture, as if it were some criminals. As for the situation of Vojvodina in the 2008 Budget Law proposal, we all know that Vojvodina, according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is 7% and that 7% must be transferred from the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina budget. A fund for capital investment was formed in Vojvodina. The other day we heard from the director of this fund for capital investment that this fund had 22 billion dinars in 2007, that 15 billion dinars were spent on 415 projects in 45 municipalities, and that's the official version. I have to say, 50% of it isn't realised. What is it, why did it happen like that, why isn't it realized? Because funds from the republican budget simply don't get into the AP Vojvodina budget. So on December 5th, also according to the Director of the Capital Investment Fund, it was spent on 147 projects of five billion dinars, plus there are two billion in reserves as a reserve for the Capital Investment Fund. I have to say, unfortunately, that's not true. I wish that were true, but it's not true. I want to repeat the information that it is only an official version and that 50% of it has not been realised, and the government of the Republic of Serbia violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the AP Development Fund is concerned, the situation is even worse. Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina of billions and 600 million dinars has been planned, with only 67 million and 4.2% being realised. I can accept with regret the fact that the Serbian government is of no importance to the Vojvodina, but I cannot accept the fact that the Serbian government is violating the Constitution. Otherwise, the Development Fund sets up competitions for entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized enterprises. Very much has helped this fund in recent years, and unfortunately in 2007, the work of this fund has been practically blocked. This fund works primarily from privatisation incomes, and these privatisation revenues don't come either. I am very glad that Mr Vlahovic is there, because he can confirm that 50 per cent of the privatisation income from Vojvodina remains in Vojvodina. It is thanks to Mr. Vlahovic, who served as minister in the government of Mr. Djindjic. Then Mr. Vlahovic agreed with the province's privatisation secretary to do so. The National Assembly changed the Law on Privatisation and instead of five percent, since then it has been 50 percent. The problem is that these money doesn't arrive and the problem is that the Vojvodina was never shown how much it belonged to privatisation income, and the problem is that we never saw the final accounts in the National Assembly and we didn't see how much money Vojvodina got. We've always seen how planned it was with the draft budget. I claim that from Vojvodina's privatisation incomes never, not one year did it receive nearly the funds belonging to Vojvodina, and on the other hand, once again, the Government of the Republic of Serbia violates the Constitution, because we do not get seven percent from the Republic of Serbia's budget. According to Jovica Djukic, the province's finance secretary, the budget was realised at 7.2 per cent, but unfortunately the data is not correct. It may be true if they count and pay employees to state authorities and pensions in Vojvodina. Of course, it can't be counted that way. According to the Capital Investment Fund, 480km of roads were built in 2007, construction of 650km is planned in 2008, but this treatment of the Republic of Serbia cannot achieve this and has not been achieved, unfortunately, in 2007. As for the National Investment Plan, nine billion dinars were planned in Vojvodina for capital investments, i.e. investments in Vojvodina, but unfortunately, the Republic has these coins, rather than the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. The SVM has proposed an amendment to spend these nine billion dinars on the basis of an opinion, namely that these funds be spent by the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina and I hope that this amendment will be adopted. To round up this issue of Vojvodina, because there is a silence, perhaps not only the silent consent of the DS to these solutions, which are not only contrary to the interest of the AP Vojvodina, but are also anti-constitutional. I simply don't think this situation should be tolerated, because just once again to repeat this data regarding the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, there is a budget of 1.6 billion dinars, and only 67 million are realised. This development fund, therefore, cannot help entrepreneurs in Vojvodina, cannot help small and medium-sized enterprises. Just a few more words about local self-government. We do not understand why such positions are local self-government, we do not understand why the local self-government law has not yet been passed in the Assembly, why local self-government has not yet returned its property. Simply, Serbia is the only country in Europe where local self-government has no property. Mr. Djelic says she's not the only one. It may not be the only one, but I don't believe there are many countries in Europe where local self-government doesn't have their own property. I'm sure Mr. Djelic also agrees that local self-government should have their own property. As for the position of minorities in this budget, since I am still a representative of the Manjin parliamentary group, but I did not want to talk only about the position of minorities in this budget, I must say that national minorities in this budget are mentioned only in one place, unlike the 2007 budget, where national minorities were mentioned in three places. National councils of national minorities are mentioned, and I must say that Mr. Cvetkovic has kept his word. That he kept his word as well as that the national councils of national minorities would receive those assets in 2008. We talked about it in June. I said it's incomprehensible why national councils of national minorities have only 63 million in the 2007 budget. We have proposed an amendment to make those funds at 150 million. That amendment was not accepted in June, but in this draft budget, that amount stands, so I would also like to say to the public that I was right when I said in June that we consider Mr Cvetkovic to be the man who holds his word. Mr. Minister kept his word and national councils have 150 million in 2008. There are some problems about the position of national minorities, and that's what I was saying here in June, that there is no fund for national minorities. Under the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the fund was due to be formed in 2002. It's not formed until today. National minority projects should be financed from that fund. The fund should finance the culture of national minorities. Under the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the National Minorities Fund should, unfortunately, exist with the aim of encouraging the social, economic, cultural and general development of national minorities and that fund, unfortunately, does not exist. I ask Mr. Djelic and Mr. Cvetkovic to pay attention to what I say in the end. We proposed to form this fund for national minorities, we planned our amendment one ridiculous sum of 10 million dinars. I hope Mr Djelic agrees that these 10 million are taken from his cabinet, that, thanks to him, a fund is being formed for national minorities after five years, to get out of this illegal state and to make the fund work. Then next year we'll plan bigger amounts. So these 10 million dinars are one ridiculous sum and I hope that our amendment will be adopted. Of course, we will have some other amendments that we will talk about and hope that these amendments will be adopted. Finally, just to conclude that SVM is against the proposed 2008 budget for five reasons. The first reason is that there is a planned enormous public spending that threatens investment. We can't agree on that. Another reason is the position of Vojvodina in the budget, which the planned position is not only contrary to the interests of the citizens of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, but also against the constitution is the position according to the 2008 budget proposal. The third reason the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians voted against the budget is because of the position of agricultural producers. I would like to appeal to the present members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to help agricultural producers because this situation is simply unsustainable. The fourth reason is that the 2008 draft budget law does not plan a single dinar for denationalisation, regardless of the adoption of a law on denationalisation of our joint election promise since 2000 and, unfortunately, it seems that the law will not be adopted in 2008. The fifth reason why SVM votes against the budget is because the position of national minorities is not arranged the way we would like it. A fund for national minorities has not yet been established, but I hope that by adopting our amendment, this fund will be revived and that in 2008, the National Minority Fund will be planned in the budget law as a special item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13757	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has been made by MP Laslo Varga, deputy president of the parliamentary group, and then by MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13758	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Vojvodjan Group of MPs will not support the 2008 draft budget law. I'm going to try to explain this attitude of ours, of course. On the one hand, on May 15th of this year, we have not held the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia for several reasons. Of course, not because we had a problem with the priorities put forward by the minister at the time, but because we were convinced that the government would not be stable or efficient in implementing its programme, nor would European integration mean a true priority to it. Our expectations, of course, came true and this draft budget law for 2008 further strengthens us in this belief. Please, Mr. Vice President, don't throw it at me. Let's remind ourselves of the government's five priorities. On the one hand, the first priority was to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. The Prime Minister, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Foreign Minister, Interior Minister, and Defence, as well as the President of the Republic deal day and night with the issue. The minister of education has been doing so rarely, including the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration. So much, therefore, the attention of the entire government pays to this issue, so those ministers whose duty it is, as well as those in charge of other areas. Unfortunately, due to this fact, many other issues remain in the second plan, such as European integration, which was the second priority of the government. The fact is that European integration is either standing or running very, very slowly at the moment. It's a question at this point, but surely they're not going fast. Mr Djelic celebrates the fact that Serbia will receive as much as a billion euros from pre-accession funds over the next five years. It is, of course, true and it is a large sum, but for comparisons, new members of the European Union who have a similar population as Serbia receive four to six billion euros annually from the European Union funds. So we lose four to six billion euros annually because the real priority of this government is not European integration. So in five years, we're practically going to lose 20 billion euros because of this fact. Of course my claims are true, that European integration is not the real priority of the government, that is also proof of the draft budget. That was the case, but I would like to reiterate that the increase in the budget of the Office for Accession to the European Union is 2.4% compared to last year. To remind ourselves, the task of this office is to encourage and monitor compliance of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with the regulations and standards of the European Union. The office had 52 employees in 2007. In 2008, there will be even one more employee. So 53 employees. For comparison, we have about 260,000 budget users. Now, of course, the question is how can these people, 53 of them, follow the legal fluids, standards and regulations of the European Union, which are currently around 100,000 pages. Of course, the second comparison is in place, with regard to the Office for Media Cooperation and, of course, these data speak a lot about the commitment of the government to European integration and of course, that the government is not about objectives, not about results, but more media propaganda. The third priority of this government was co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It is, of course, not a matter of budget, but of political will, which, unfortunately, is not presently available. It's amazing that the BIA has 1,953 employees, with a budget of 3.4 billion dinars, and so unsuccessfully searching for all these refugees. We can continue with the fourth priority, with socio-economic issues. It is true that significant funds are provided for economic development, particularly in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Especially for tourism, but in the atmosphere of constant political instability, sometimes wartime statements by government officials, tourists do not come, investors do not come, there are no new jobs. The unhealthy climate should be changed, and then, of course, the budget would have much more resources for social giving. Of course, there is also the fifth priority, the fight against corruption and organised crime. The growth of the judiciary budget is lower than the growth of the overall budget. That's how a serious state doesn't fight crime. On the other hand, that judicial budget depends on the executive. When will the judiciary once have an independent budget in Serbia, as is the case in other European countries? In 2008, I'm afraid not. On the other hand, that was also said to reduce the Council's budget for fighting corruption by 5% compared to last year, and the Council will still not have any employees. On this fact, I want to repeat that this is not how the serious state fights corruption. The Deputy Prime Minister can provide verbal support for the work of the Council, but now it is clear how dishonest it is. The only thing that is encouraging is the fact that the budget will provide funds for the start of the work of the State Auditing Institution. However, only with 87 employees and of course I want one comparison. In the Republic of Hungary, the same institution has 600 employees and has a budget of 29m euros. This is not because the budget of the Republic of Hungary is 15 times larger than our budget, but because there is awareness that these expenditures are returned by the efficient work of that institution multiple times. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to continue with another topic, and that is the government's attitude towards institutions. I think that relationship is generally tragic. Let me just point out one example, which is an example of a misdemeanor. Namely, according to Article 91. Infringements laws, misdemeanors run by misdemeanor courts. Article 308 of the same law states that the law will apply from 1 January 2007. The 2008 draft budget law continues to plan funds for municipal infringement authorities. I suggest you think about it. Now something about the autonomy of the Duke. The ruling coalition's parties have deceived the people of Vojvodina at least three times in the last 12 months. It's the first time we've adopted the Constitution. Namely, in Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is as bait a provision under which the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic, with three weeks of budgets being used to finance capital expenditures. It was, of course, tempting. But the ruling coalition's parties kept their real account in the referendum campaign. In fact, this was revealed in the adoption of the 2008 budget, when funds for education workers in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, amounting to 19 billion dinars, as well as expenditure on funding part of the programme in the area of culture of 700 million dinars, were included in those 7%. These funds are intended for education and culture, so areas that fall within the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region, so there is at least some excuse for this fraud. The second time, the government tricked the people of Vojvodina into making the budget itself, i.e. practically after the 2007 budget. In the budget, you provided for four billion dinar funds for projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in the head of the National Investment Plan Office. The government was obliged, by the logic of the matter, to transfer these funds to the AP Vojvodina budget. And what did the government do? She passed the regulation on the basis of which she spent the funds, the AP Vojvodina's authorities have imposed an obligation to register the funds in the AP Vojvodina budget as revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These funds were never seen by the AP Vojvodina authorities, nor were they involved in their distribution, and for fraud to be greater, the funds were allocated in a large number of cases for projects falling within the jurisdiction of the Republic, therefore, not in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province, for buildings of tax administrations, for prisons, for criminal courts, for the police academy, etc. So it's a pure violation of the Constitution. For the third time, the citizens of Vojvodina were deceived, or more precisely stolen in the period following the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, meaning in this last period. Namely, the 2007 Article in the 3rd budget of the Republic of Serbia found that the remaining amount of funds, meaning that the funds remaining in addition to the income tax on the income of citizens, the company's income tax, other revenues, in addition to the salaries of employees and funds for culture, would mean the remaining amount of funds, up to at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and up to the projected amount of the AP Vojvodina budget, will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget. By deciding on the 2007 AP Vojvodina budget, which was already made long ago at the time of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget were planned to amount to 21.4 billion dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you know what it is to achieve these revenues by 30 December 2007? It accounts for two billion dinars, so 9.33%, and of course, the implementation of the entire AP Vojvodina budget for this reason, for this fraud, is 45.85% by 30 September. There was a capital investment fund, and I want to repeat some figures. So, by September 30th, a total of 4.5 billion dinars were added to the fund, instead of the planned 23 billion. From the Republic of Serbia's budget, instead of the planned 20.5 billion, only two billion. Mr. Pastor was restrained and he didn't make this scam difficult, I'll say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is usually road robbery. The budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina was thus damaged by 19.5 billion dinars in 2007: 18.5 billion dinars were damaged by a capital investment fund, and for one billion dinars other users. I call upon the President of the Executive Council of the Army of Vojvodina to file criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator for this. Someone, to repeat, stole the people of Vojvodina by 19.5 billion dinars. Now something about the 2008 budget for Vojvodina autonomy. This budget, i.e. the draft budget, carries out practical legalisation of the 2007 Vojvodina citizens, and now in co-operation with the province's leadership of the Democratic Party. In 2007, they were not accomplices, I must say, and in this process or procedure they are. The following will be done: part of the funding from the National Investment Plan, amounting to 9 billion dinars, is intended to transfer the AP Vojvodina budget to the NIP on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The funds will be recorded in the Republic of Serbia's budget as expenditure on the Vojvodina budget. Article 16 The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia is given the legal authority of the government to deploy the funds by its decision, however, on the proposal of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. The essence, therefore, remains the same in 2008 as it was in 2007. So decisions on the use of these duchy funds will be made here in Belgrade, though AP Vojvodina authorities will be formally consulted. And the difference between 2007 and 2007. The difference on the one hand is that in this way and formally, the amount of funding allocated by the AP authorities alone will be further reduced, meaning that it will increase from 4 billion in 2007 to 9 billion in this year. On the other hand, this will be done under the 2008 budget law, so completely legal, not as in 2007. The remaining amount of funds will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget up to at least 7% through other projects of the National Investment Plan. So, these funds will also be used without the opinion of the AP Vojvodina organ. So, in the 2007 ministry budgets, at least a certain amount of funds was allocated to Vojvodina, in 2008, and this remains unknown. Mr. Gilas and Mr. Pajtic otherwise transferred this fraud to a written agreement a few weeks ago. I ask the question: is this the autonomy of the Duke's ladies and gentlemen from the Democratic Party? I'm sure he didn't. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister came out of the O.R., but regardless of the fact, I will ask them a question that reads: what amount of funds will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina for capital expenditure or capital investment, and whose distribution of decisions will be made by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. The 2008 Capital Investment Fund? Of course, an application for both the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to this time, when they give an answer, then to tell us the truth. Now let me move on to some other important issues about the budget, which have already been partly discussed earlier. On the one hand, around agriculture, I want to repeat that the damage is only on the territory of five municipalities in the northern Vojvodina of 7.5 billion dinars. We have proposed an amendment to provide for billions of dinars to remove part of the damage suffered by farmers from drought. On the other hand, we have proposed an amendment requiring the provision of funding for law enforcement to regulate the use and availability of assets by the AP and local self-government units, so that there is no excuse during 2008 for this process, meaning the return of property to municipalities and the province, not because there is no funds in the budget. For administrative districts, this is the same important issue, funds amounting to 433 million dinars were planned. Minister Markovic, a resolute minister, said weeks ago that a large number of administrative districts are doing nothing, and the state spends nearly half a billion dinars on their functioning. This is one of the problems, and the other is that these funds are very unfairly distributed. In fact, 17% more funds are projected for the Northboa County per capita than for the Northboa County. I think it's a huge injustice, and so we have proposed an amendment that the cost of operating these two administrative districts per capita is equal. With regard to culture and information in the languages of national minorities, unfortunately, this budget has not defined how much of the total cultural resources will be spent to support the cultural activities of national minorities, as well as for the needs of information in the languages of national minorities. We have proposed an amendment to establish the budget law that part of the funds will be allocated to national councils and, of course, taking into account the fact that more than 15% of the population of this country are national minorities. Mr. Pastor talked about it that we had proposed an amendment that would provide the initial funds for the start-up of the National Minority Fund. I hope that the ruling majority will understand our reasons and will stand behind this amendment. I don't think it should be disputed that it would be much more worth investing in the economic, cultural, educational development of national minorities than at the various costs of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to repeat once again, neither the SVM nor the Vojvodjanski MPs' parliamentary group, for all these exceptional reasons, will support the 2008 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13759	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13760	Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to, listening to this discussion and to a number of questions, note and repeat several key specifics of this budget, of course not repeating what the finance minister said in the opening statement, and also to refer to several questions raised in the last few hours of this discussion. This budget is social and developmental. He is Serbia's target and, of course, every budget is essentially a synthesis of all problems and all attempts to solve these problems, which he is trying to give to a certain society. Of course, our society still suffers from many problems. Two are the largest, which is the unemployment rate, the poverty of certain layers of our population, as well as the large deficit of current payments of 15% of gross domestic product. This unequivocally points to further efforts that need to be directed, on the one hand, towards increasing the competitiveness of our economy and at the same time preserving and strengthening the degree of solidarity in our society. There are no simple answers to many problems that our society must face, and therefore this budget. I would like to mention several characteristics not only of the budget but of these public finances that are proposed for next year, because as you can see by good practice for the last few years, you have the opportunity to consider not only what the budget is, but also the other part of the public finances that represent the financial plans of the mandatory social insurance organisation, which in the amount of money fully compares to what our budget is and shows the amount of solidarity that exists in our society. Why is this budget good for Serbia and why do I invite all MPs and all MPs to vote for it? First of all, it's right that public spending is huge in our country. They are right especially when they say that participation in public spending is too high and this is a problem for our economy because large public spending suppresses what private investors are investing and has a strong effect, we have seen this year through pay increases. There is, as economists would say, a mime effect, and in Serbian, a chain effect on salaries and other parts of our economy, especially in the private sector, which is often told by the businessmen themselves, which in this way deepens one of the two major problems that I was talking about at the very beginning, which is a deficit of current payments. Therefore, this budget, which allows for a reduction of 0.8% of the total expenditure of public finances in our gross domestic product, is good. If we look at the performances of our economy, of course, it's one digit that when I say it, it's going to mean a lot to the citizens who are watching us tonight, and that's still that our country with 7% of the growth of gross domestic product is going to be a recordr in Europe after development. We would all like it to go much faster, but 7% is the perfect figure, the best in Europe, and when we know that 6% of next year's growth, the real growth of our economy, is going to be a significant improvement for all of our citizens. I want to say the same thing, as you can see in these projections, when we talk about unemployment for the first time in 2008, we should say, for the first time, that there is an increase in employment. In some parts of our country, Belgrade and Vojvodina, the effect has already been seen in the last three years. I would like to remind everyone who spoke of the difficult situation in Vojvodina, that this year is projecting an increase in employment for 50,000 citizens. For the first time in two years unemployment has fallen in Vojvodina, and that's good. Well done, Dukes. In Belgrade, the situation is even better, but, of course, we all have to in these circumstances not to hinder the progress of those who would do something faster, but at the same time to show greater solidarity to those regions of our country, and they are numerous, where that is not the case. That is why you have in this budget the resources of the National Investment Plan of record sum. Those who spoke of capital expenditure in Vojvodina, I would like to tell you, first, that, at this point, by 15 December of this year, the execution, the real execution when the money spent from the Serbian budget on one hand and the Vojvodina budget is 7.2% of these funds. In no way has the Vojvodina been cut off. The second thing, for those who are fortunate to live in Vojvodina, is seen in many, in all the municipalities of Vojvodina, is much to be built. Twenty billion dinars is the pre-calculated value of capital projects that are envisaged and, of course, no one thinks about it, and at least those who run these projects with a lot of talent, to transfer that money immediately to that fund. Of course, it does not take into account that the performers are paid in full, but that money is transferred to the Capital Expensive Fund at the time when it is necessary to settle the contractors. That is why this budget is at the same time the strongest we have had in recent years in the area of infrastructure. Now I would like to say about the debt issue, since it was Mrs Tabakovic's question. To remind myself that in 2000, the total public debt represented 120% of gross domestic product. To translate into Serbian, we had more debts than national wealth. Today, seven years later, he does not represent a third of our gross domestic product. Our public debt is not one third of our national wealth. Four times less and that is the measure of Serbia's progress. I want to remind you, since there have been stories about European integration, that so-called mastriching criteria, one of those for entry into the European Union, show that the level of maximum public debt in the gross domestic product for entry into the European Union is 60%. So, we have twice as much public debt as what is acceptable to the country that is to enter the European Union and it is good that in recent years our debt has been reduced externally by 5.1 billion euros. It's because we've been released from debt and reprogramming, but also because we've been able to pay off a number of debts in advance, as is the case with the World Bank, the IMF, to whom we owe no more than one single dinar, and not to mention that we've finally managed to establish a number of mechanisms, such as. Since it was about her, the German Development Bank. I'm just saying that for now, the Republic of Germany is the only country that, taking one part of our sovereign debt, has accepted that debt, and so far it's worth 25m euros, from two years ago, has broken into projects to nine municipalities to improve the heating system, to be better heating, to be less polluting, and have decided a few weeks ago to turn an additional 17m euros. There's a much better situation in that area. I think that this fluid that has been established is that, in the very proposal for a budget law, you get not only one total information about our external debt, but information about all the proposed arrangements, all the proposed guarantees that it proposes to take over the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this is the right measure of fiscal discipline and transparency in what the Government is offering to preserve. For many, it's too strict. For many, it gives such a measure of rigour and necessity that after this approval, every time a resolution minister wants to finance a particular job that is intended for the budget, he will have to return to this respectable home, to explain why what you once voted as a possible guarantee, i.e. a sovereign debt necessary for Serbia and that this sovereign home decides whether it sovereignly gives a sovereign guarantee or a sovereign debt. It's the right way to run public finances. I would like to say, since that was the story, that I agree with those MPs who are not satisfied with the information that we have in the area of pay and compensation for board members in public enterprises. The government has already made efforts. I want to take the obligation to make extra efforts, because those who work in public enterprises don't work in private businesses. They work in companies that, as a rule, have a dose of monopoly, they manage our natural resources and must have a dose of transparency in their incomes, which are much higher than what exists in the private sector. However, when someone is saying that this budget is not strict enough, it should be said, here is the finance minister a few minutes ago, I congratulate him on that, as well as on the Minister of Education, which they managed to find a real social agreement with representative unions of education, in a way that respects this financial framework proposed in this budget. After the justice, here's the education. This will be done in a few days and with representative unions of the state administration, and thus we show that from these amounts of wages, which amounted to 9.7% of gross domestic product, we gradually align this expenditure with what is our country's financial opportunities, and that the services our citizens receive from the clerks in no way will be affected, but on the contrary, will be improved. Because we are bravely dealing with a problem called the resociation of the network of our institutions and I welcome the representative unions of the judiciary who have had the courage to admit that one third of the judicial staff is working and processing two thirds of the total cases, and that we need to work on what has cost and overcome the structure of our state administration. We must work on it in the interests of our citizens and businessmen. For those who spoke about the problems of our pensioners, in addition to the measures our government has already taken, the payment of a one-time aid of two thousand dinars for every pensioner who receives less than 8,600 dinars, which has already been given these days, is the payment of the remaining debt, representing between 3,700 and 4,400 dinars for each pensioner. During January, it will be paid, in this budget for pensioners' beneficiaries, the remaining public debt representing around 23 000 dinars. Finally, it's a expenditure that represents a few dozen billion dinars, it's a harmonisation by law of pensions for an amount that will be between 12 and 13 percent, i.e. an increase for all pensioners in the amount, starting with the waitings in January. I could talk a lot more about the budget, but respected MPs, I want to say that at this point that is not easy for our country, it sets the right balance between the objectives that only seem to be opposed. There is no fair society that does not produce wealth and that is not effective. An efficient society that produces a major inequality between people, between regions, cannot be sustainable. In that sense, by the good liquid of continental Europe, we have here the right measure in quantity and in location between the various objectives that we must have in the given budget. There were questions I wanted to look back on, which are not about the total public finances. First of all, as far as denationalisation is concerned, you are right, it is in terms of property transformation, when and if this respectable home adopts, after the debate that will be under the next points of the agenda, amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and the law that will provide free action to all our citizens who have not yet participated in this process, you are right, honourable MP, to denationalise is the same measure of correcting the injustices that have been made in the last decades. The relevant draft law is over, it will go to a public debate and we all expect that it will finally be adopted in the next few months. We must stay away from any form of demagogy, but in terms of the budget, it is not possible to predict something in the Republic of Serbia's budget unless there is a legal basis for it. That's the only reason there's no funds in this. That's not according to the Budgetary System Act, not according to budget law, not according to sound mind. The adoption of the denationalisation law will withdraw certain conflicts to the budget law. As far as the issue is concerned, I would like to conclude European integration and pre-accession assistance. First of all, it's not loans, it's help. I don't want to talk about it, since that's the next point in this session, we're going to have a lot of opportunities to talk about this pre-accession aid. But it's not about the loans. When we say it is expected to provide between 10% and 15% of our resources, it is not on some loan, but to work together with Europe on some important projects for our citizens. It's about improving the work of the emergency service. It's about training the Danube, being the real Corridor Seven that will boost our economy. It is about investing a lot more in the less developed regions of our country. It's about improving the lives of our citizens. For an MP who said that European integration is going slowly, how can I tell you, as if we weren't in the same country. There is no country that has been able to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in three and a half months, and what is our rhythm and series of laws and proposals you have seen these days is actually the fastest rhythm in European integrations seen in transition so far. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13761	Thank you. Since two MPs have reported to the Rules of Procedure, let's first let the heads of Parliament finish, and you'll get your word. The People's MP Ivica Dačić has the word, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Slavisa Topalović and the National MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13762	I'm sorry, the first person to answer the phone was Zvonimir Stevic, but I asked him to wait for the head of the MPs' clubs to finish, and he's from the SPS. Therefore, I apologize to the other MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Minister, the SPS will not vote in favour of the draft budget. The budget is also a political issue, it's not just economic. The relation to the budget is also the relationship of one party to a political coalition that holds power in the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, the SPS, as an opposition political party, will not vote for the draft budget. I also think it wasn't much of a political direction to take the draft budget off the agenda, because I think you're the only government in the world that has taken the draft off the agenda to adopt some slightly less important laws, risking the state being left without funding during this difficult period. I still think you've done the thing and entered a great political risk, because by the time you have to adopt the budget, it will be a few more days, which can be very important to you as a government. If you are planning to make political moves as a ruling coalition and take political moves in terms of calling presidential elections without mutual agreement, I am not sure you will adopt this budget at all. That could be your problem, but it is also the problem of a state whose government you are. In that sense, no matter what it took to pass these laws under the Constitutional Law, in order to call the presidential elections, I think it was enough time to discuss the budget first, when you have already proposed it. By the way, I have to bring out a series of principles that are important for every budget. For example, we have a budget deficit here again. You've been boasting for the past few years, yes, it can be good, but in any case, sometimes it's very important how it's going to come out, whether it's going to be deficitary funding or in some way it's going to boost economic activity in our country. Anyway, I'd like to make a statement to you that you haven't submitted the government's final budget accounts since 2000. I would remind you, and there were some ministers from that first government, that you here, at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in this same room, discussed all the items of the then Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. You filed dozens and hundreds of criminal charges for the so-called. non-intentional spending of funds. Unintended spending of funds is, Mr. Minister, when a certain minister in his portfolio didn't plan on paying some money for something, and he spent it for those purposes. Under the new law, which you passed after 2000, it's no longer a crime, it's a crime. But you haven't missed a chance to file criminal charges against the ministers of the SPS and the SRS. We haven't seen you spend all these seven years. We didn't see any final accounts. Who are you hiding it from? How did the people's money get spent? You were so fond of saying. How is that possible? And you resented the earlier governments that they spent money on roads in election campaigns, opening up various buildings, bridges, etc. What have you been spending it on all these years? I can tell you that I'm sure something we've opened twice, you've opened five more times since 2000 to today. Always with the TV cameras and always in the election campaign. The final accounts, okay, did not pass the entire audit process, but twice a year you are obliged to report to the National Assembly, to submit a report on how money is spent in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then, Mr. Djelic was talking about pensions. We passed one law amending the pension law. I would like to remind you that at the request of the SPS, a provision has been entered into the existing pension law that pensions cannot fall below 60% of the average salary. So today's average pension is 53% of the average salary. In 2000, the average pension was 90% of the average salary. Today is 53%, and you need to get it back to 60%. The importance of the legal text has been carried out three years from the beginning of application. So, at the end of next year, it points out the importance of that member of the law and, if you think well of the pensioners, you have to change that member of the law, otherwise, by all projections, after 2010, it will fall below 40% of the average salary. That's why I don't think it's far from true what pensioners and their pensioners keep saying, which is that an economic genocide on pensioners is being carried out. Do I have to take a break to make a deal or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13764	I don't like anything happening behind my back, that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13765	Your back is safe, Mr. Dacic. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13766	Since there's no Mrkonjic, I don't know if I should believe you. I thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13767	Miss Natasa Jovanovic and I have your back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13768	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm obviously a very privileged MP. Also, Mr. Minister, there's one part about health care and you wrote it here. The planned expenditure, it says in your text that you wrote, planned expenditures to issue prescription drugs are higher by 16.33% compared to the 2007 plan. This position was planned for 2007 at a lower level than necessary, as a result of the fact that the budget did not provide sufficient resources for health care. Most of it will refer to prescription drugs. The expenditure on medicines and medicinal products, consisting of drugs, sanitary and medical materials, blood and blood products, medicines for haemophilia, cytostatics, vaccines, building materials in orthopedics, cardiosurgery, hip implants, pacemakers, stents, graphs and other implants, also, this position is planned at a lower level than necessary, as a result of the budget not providing sufficient resources for these purposes. We stand for free health care. Mr. Minister, how many people in Serbia don't have a health book today? Every citizen of Serbia must have the right to a health book. You wrote in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia is a state of social justice. What kind of social justice you're talking about if you don't have the right to free education and you don't have the right to free treatment. At least basic health care. Life in Serbia cannot depend on whether anyone has money to heal, whether someone will have money to buy drugs. That's why there's a state. The state doesn't exist to help tycoons. The state exists to help socially endangered categories, and that's why it's called the state of social justice. Also, here you spoke, the key to reducing public spending. What does it mean to reduce public spending? Let's translate it into one language understood to everyone. Reduction of public spending, what does it mean? It says here, unchanged pay levels in the state administration and public services. I don't mind if someone who can live better than other workers doesn't have the right to use his privileges. I'm not sure the state administration and public services deserve to have such a frozen level of pay. How are you going to freeze them? That the general director of the public company has 400 or 300,000 dinars, and the cleaning lady, or the secretary or driver, has 12 grand. They'll stay permanently frozen like that. Do you know that here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia there is an unfair range and that there are unfairly determined salaries. Drivers who drive MPs, according to the provisions you have laid down in the state administration, have a salary, I think, between 10 and 12 thousand dinars. Those who know that they work in the National Assembly probably think their salaries are astronomical. It is said that subsidies are being reduced, subsidies will be reduced, public investment cuts etc. Also, I'd like to remind you of your external trade deficit. Do you know when there was a huge external trade deficit? In 2000, when an expert group called G17, it proposed full liberalisation of foreign trade and external economic relations. What happened? Here in this room, Labus and Dinkic admitted to making a mistake. We lifted customs, opened our market for foreign products. We didn't protect our market, even though no one committed us to it. Today is already a problem for you to increase customs duty when you've already reduced it once. Why did we do that? So that we might destroy the domestic economy, to make it easier to sell or sell off some companies? So the external trade deficit in 2006 increased by 520m euros, it says here. The number of employees in the first eight months of 2007 decreased by 1.1% compared to the same period last year. Wait, I understand our country is going to prosperity. If we look at what's being made public, and even by the Bureau of Statistics and everything else, it seems that the citizens are not aware of how well they live. I guess even those who got fired from work don't realize they got fired. We suggested, Mr. Minister, and that was the deal with the previous minister of social policy, what about the people who got fired, who don't have enough years to retire, and who's going to take them to work in 50 or 55 years of life? We proposed that a law be passed that would link this work experience so that people would have the right to a dignified age. These people no longer need anyone in Serbia. It's 100, 200 or 300 thousand people. I'd like to remind you that more than 200 thousand people, it seems, have taken advantage of that law we passed two or three years ago on the integration of the employment force in 1990 to this day. Serbia's unemployment rate is 21.7% today, a very high unemployment rate. When can it be expected to shrink? Unfortunately, not so fast. I just want to remind you once again, we suggested that VAT be abolished on baby equipment, on food, on clothes, and you refused, and then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica received a letter from the patriarch, His Holiness Mr. Paul, and accepted his request. So what happened to that request then? Did you accept it or did you not accept it? Is the Prime Minister asking a question in your government? What did you do? Then you lied to the Serbian patriarch, not you personally, but the government of the Republic of Serbia. You promised him you'd meet him. Is the problem that Zarko Obradovic submitted the amendment and the bill? No problem, you handle it. Here, everything we've suggested, we don't have to endure anything, reject all our proposals, suggest you and bring it, be in the interest of this country and this people. At the very end, I want to look back on this proposal too, these two laws, which are also related to the economic issue, which are free of charge. In this same hall, we passed the law in 2005, and it says that it came out in the "officer" in 2005, meaning, when the strikes were on the initiative, the proposal and at the request of the SPS, there was a law that stated that in public enterprises and companies with the majority participation of state capital, which carry out activities of general interest, capital for obtaining shares without compensation amounts to a maximum of 30% of the state capital that is privatised. State capital transferred in shares without compensation to employees in a public enterprise and a company with a majority participation in state capital, which carries out a measure of general interest, which is privatised by a public tender method, or by a public auction method, cannot be greater than 15% of the capital that is privatised. Stocks remaining after sale and transfer to non-refundable employees shall be recorded in the Privatisation Register. So, you promised here, the previous government, and you wrote in law 15 plus 15%, no more than 30%, and now what did you suggest in this law? You suggested that capital to acquire free shares is 15% of the total capital of each company. You are proposing this law to abolish this member of another law. I don't know what's changed? Minister Dinkic spoke to the same one back then, at the time he was the finance minister. What's the problem, how come they're giving free action for 15%, and it's supposed to be different before? I don't just want to remind myself of that, after 2000, any right has been lifted otherwise that anyone can take action based on a job experience in a company or anywhere in a public institution. To conclude, the budget is a political issue, but I would only remind you that today the state is in a very serious situation, in which it has come because of the danger of jeopardizing our territorial integrity and sovereignty, but also because of major disagreements within the ruling coalition. I don't know if you're aware of the moves that happen every day on the political scene of Serbia? The DS will call the January presidential elections without the DSS's consent, in conditions where we wait for December 14th as the European Union's summit and when we wait for December 19th as a session of the UN's SB. What are your relationships and will you fall apart? It is our wish, but the problem is that the consequences of all this will be suffered by this whole country and this entire nation. Will we welcome this January, December, March, in February in general political chaos, or will we be as Serbia in something unique? There is no single defence of KIM, a strong defence of KIM, without unity on Serbia's political scene, and you are broadcasting disunity within the ruling coalition. I just can't believe that out of all this stuff that I've just told you, it's more important who's going to overcome who in your negotiations and who's going to have more political interest than this country and this people. So I'm not sure if you'll be able to adopt this budget at all, God forbid the state and the people will not suffer, but it will depend on both the defence and security forces of this country. We would not worry about you at all if, unfortunately, the relations within the ruling coalition did not depend on Serbia's position at the moment. So, Mr. Minister, we're not voting for your budget proposal. Of course, we've proposed a whole series of amendments, and it's up to you to accept them or not, they're in order to improve what I've been talking about. I just remind you that you must comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is a state of social justice, we wrote in the Constitution, which was voted on by more than 50% of Serbian citizens listed in the voter's list. There is no state of social justice, the kind of Serbia, in which the right to work, the right to treatment, will be a privilege. Everyone in this country has to have the same chance of success in life. And you, Mr. Minister, probably came from somewhere and used the right to free education, for free treatment. If that wasn't the case, the question is, would you have finished school and college at all, and would you have come to all of this at all? That's the principle for which the SPS fights. I urge you to keep these specifics not only in your party's programme, but to put in the draft budget that you propose to the National Assembly. You can only be left-handed, if you want a state of social justice, if you show it to the bill. If you are only abroad, and you do not show it in the country, because those who think so in Serbia do not vote for you, then you are playing the wrong political card and you will lose part of your electoral body. So I call on you, more importantly, to defend the state and the people yes, but the state of social justice is a constitutional category. You must give people the right to work, to a guaranteed job, so that ten tycoons are not stronger than five million Serbs or other Serbian citizens, that people have the right to free education, to free treatment, to have social protection rights, etc. Simply, that's what most Serbian citizens think. I don't think anyone should get away from what they used to be. Once again, there is no man in this room who has not used the privileges of the state of social justice, as was once the former SFRY. Perhaps that state has gone a little too far, perhaps if there were no such privilege and right to free schooling, we might not have some ministers in the Serbian government at times, but there are sometimes bad students in each school.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13769	Just to give a word to the heads of the parliamentary groups, please Mr. Canak, then Mr. Vlahovic, and then the MPs Slavisa Topalović and Zvonimir Stević will go. Then we go to work on the agenda. I apologize, Mr. Maraš, to give information, who wants to ask a parliamentary question to Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, he is in the Assembly tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because he is an authorised representative for the next two laws, but no problem. And the People's Messenger Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13770	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I'd just like three points of light, which is why I think our discussion today is extremely important. First, MEPs will not vote for this budget, because the budget has one systemic error, and I could define it by again being a deficitary budget, a deficit-based budget, despite IMF representatives' recommendations to plan budget surpluses, so that in some ways the budget is in a position to be really restrictive in the domain of public spending. Instead of reducing the cost of one of the most expensive countries on the planet, instead, we have again the budget that plans the deficit, and that, if the data do not cheat on me next year, a total of 654.4 billion dinars will be spent, or about 10% more than this year, according to the budget projection. At the same time, revenues are expected to increase nominally in the same percentage and reach 639.6 billion dinars, so that Serbia's budget will again be in the deficit. So, where's the point? Mr. Minister himself, if I understand his performances correctly, you can look at me, I won't tell you anything, he said the proposed budget is economically non-optimal, if I understood your exposure well. Did I get that right? Thank you very much for your understanding. So the budget is economically non-optimal. What is optimal then, what is it for except for one type of propaganda activity and a further life in illusions, life in an artificial type of society, artificial coordinates, because without the willingness to seriously fuck state spending, there is simply no development. We cannot move forward with such a planned budget deficit, because we will be in a position to see that if Serbia, and does not want to find that in 2010, everything produced in the past, has been spent, then the 2009 budget should be reduced by 4.3%, and the following year another 5.3% to come to zero at all. I think we need to be very clear about how we all see it, and we're completely clear on what this is all about, but that still doesn't mean that we'll agree to it. That's the first thing I wanted to say. The second thing, I don't want to stay on the whole budget, but Article 4 says, I'm going to talk about the AP Vojvodina as, don't forget, the personification of local self-government, as a personification of relations to local self-government, where local self-government alone has nothing more to live on. Such centralizations as are now difficult to deal with in Serbia. I'm about to show you in article 4. You all know, that I wouldn't spend much time on it, that funds to cover the expenditures of the AP Vojvodina's 2008 budget are provided in accordance with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia so that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures, and that is: from part of the income tax on the income of citizens, the income tax of 18% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, portions of the company's income, amounting to 42.7% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, other revenues achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. My question is, how will we know, Mr. Secretary, what is that 18%? Vojvodina does not have its own statistical office in which it could neither verify nor confirm nor deny it. We don't have instruments that we can even see whether the government has fulfilled its obligations to itself or not. Furthermore, funds for educational staff expenditure, pay attention, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law, are provided in the amount of 22,659,622,000 dinars. Note that if we are looking at a minimum of 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, this makes up almost half of the projected budget that should be around 47 billion, if I understand Mr. Minister well. If so, it means that when we realize that the funds for salaries, here it writes - the funds for salaries for the employees of education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina of item 2 of this article are paid at the height and by the dynamics established by the Government, and the budget of the AP Vojvodina pays the salaries of Article 2 of this article the following day from the date of receipt of the funds for these purposes on account. In other words, nearly half of the AP Vojvodina budget goes to the salaries of educational workers, decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Vojvodina administration serves exclusively as a postman who will receive and forward the money neatly. In that case, any postal officer in Vojvodina can consider himself the owner of a huge budget, because his hands go through huge amounts of money, and he doesn't decide. So do we, as citizens of Vojvodina, also as citizens of Serbia, care about that part of Serbia, by talking about formal autonomy, which essentially does not exist, and by petting it on all citizens of Serbia, especially those whose concept of the autonomy of Vojvodina is related to some imaginary separatism or what I know, or by another fraud of this government by Dr Vojislav Kostunica, which is used to show: here, see how much money goes there. At the same time, the money is not decided in Vojvodina but decided in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If I wasn't talking about the fact that for 2007 it's supposed to be from the rest of this, which we talked about, so remember, 46.7 billion should be a budget, 22 billion, almost 23 goes to education workers' salaries, and for capital investments, three weeks of budgets would be about 22 billion dinars. For 2007, ladies and gentlemen, 23 billion dinars of capital investment funds are foreseen. 4.5 billion arrived in Vojvodina, i.e. About 19 billion didn't make it. We heard from Vice President Djelic that in his inspired presentation he explained that the money would come when something needed to be paid. Of course, this would be a very acceptable solution and an explanation in case we don't know what money management means, and we don't know that the twenty, 19 billion, as much as it would be in the accounts of the province's administration, could already be placed on the economy of Vojvodina by Mr Djelic, the local self-government in Vojvodina, which would contribute to the further development of this once most developed part of Serbia. Now I'm asking a simple question. In all the stories we have heard, we are constantly under the impression that around the MPs do not know enough, so they should not be involved in the business of experts, experts, professionals and so on, and the figures themselves are clearly showing at first sight what extent centralisation is harmful to the state, which is in charge of every measure for the future and which will lead us to the position that, as we had in Vojvodina with the fund for development, where the budget of a billion and 700 million dinars was envisaged, where competitions were called on the territory of Vojvodina, and only 67 million dinars were realised. In other words, this behaviour towards the AP Vojvodina and its budget is absolutely proof that the current government, which is largely made up of those who have adopted the Constitution here, violates the Constitution, violates the laws, and this budget clearly shows that it will not fulfil its constitutional obligation, and that even if it had met we have no way to prove because of the absence of the duchy institutions whether or not it happened at all. That's what I wanted to say about the budget. I would only say one more thing, and that is to ask you to pay attention, that yesterday on the main streets of this capital of the Republic of Serbia, the neo-Nazis gathered again, again hailed the Nazi greetings, again the clerofastic organisations were on the streets of Belgrade, the capital of the Republic of Serbia. My question is whether we have the right, because of the no doubt important problems we have in the country about the future status of Kosovo, the future budget of the Republic of Serbia and everything else, to forget that there are more and more frequent incidents on the streets, more and more frequent incidents, more and more supporters of neo-Nazi and clerofastic movements. And it is quite certain that when combined with a completely complicated situation in the country, it can lead to a violation of traditionally good international relations, not only in Serbia but also in the rest of Serbia. I ask you to take care of that too, save the time that we have here and talk about such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13771	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, as an authorised representative of the DS Parliament Club, and will then be given to MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13772	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, I will not take much time, as Mr. Cvetkovic and Deputy Prime Minister Djelic have also given sufficient arguments in favour of the claim that the budget, as presented to the MPs, corresponds to the defined economic policy, or is in line with the 2008 Memorandum of Economic Policy. I'd just like to give a few additional clarifications, and it concerns, above all, the character of this budget and, on the other hand, the fact that at this point, so after a year, we have a budget deficit instead of a budget surplus, which was a perfect year for 2006. The budget deficit itself acts, for those who do not know that it is a fiscal policy instrument, quite frightening and in some ways can indicate the inability of public finances to cover public expenditures with their public revenues. However, when public expenditures are fully covered by public revenues, and that part of public revenues that do not go into regular tax revenues, the budget deficit cannot in any way and should not act inflatorically. On the contrary, the instrument of the budget deficit is a very important instrument of economic policy applied everywhere there, so in those countries where investment needs to be stimulated, and I think that Serbia is the country in which it really is needed, in the coming period, to stimulate public investment. A few years ago, we were just trying to explain that the budget deficit should not be cut lightly, because it is the only instrument left in the hands of the government after a very strict credit-monetary policy being conducted by the central bank. The whole point is how the government deals with public expenditures. It seems to me that no one here has underlined so far that a reduction in public spending is planned for the next period of 0.9%. So, to conclude, the budget deficit itself does not necessarily have to act and do not act inflatively if there is a strict control of public consumption and if public spending is being rerouted in ways that stimulate economic activity, no consumption at all. But I also want to say a few indicators that are characteristic of economic policy for next year and are not sufficiently explained. We received an explanation in the material that a 20% increase in investment was planned for next year, that export growth was planned by 25.8%, Mr. Minister, and that import growth was planned by 20%. All together should contribute to reducing the total foreign trade deficit by 2%, as measured by the gross social product. At this point, if I'm not mistaken, the external trade deficit is about 20, or a projected external trade deficit for 2007, 20.2% of the gross social product. The projection of that foreign trade deficit is below 19%. Therefore, a drastic reduction in the external trade deficit, as well as a drastic decrease in current payment balances, in the projections of the macroeconomic framework for 2008. What is particularly important is that neither personal consumption nor, on the other hand, state consumption is increasing more than the projected inflation rate. These macroeconomic projections provide for private consumption growth by 4.9% and so on. State consumption by 5.7%. Let me remind you that the growth of gross social product was projected at 6% level and on the other hand that total inflation growth was projected at 6%. So, all in all, when all macroeconomic indicators are looked at, the budget really doesn't work or will act inflatively, given the way in which public spending is structured. On the other hand, when you look at the total budget deficit at 0.5% of the gross social product, i.e. in the consolidated system, when you add loans of 48 billion dinars and other expenditures that don't go into those, I say, conditionally, regular expenditure, or regular budget spending, the total amount of the budget deficit is somewhere around 89.3 billion dinars. There is no fear of where the budget deficit will be covered, all of which are not to be realised by any privatization income dinar in 2008. At this moment, there is exactly one billion euros in the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which corresponds to this budget deficit. Therefore, there is absolutely no concern that the budget deficit will be covered from unrealistic sources. I'd like to say that the hardest thing to do is to make a budget so that it can be both developmental and social. This budget is an attempt, and a good attempt, to create a developmental and social balance between those two objectives that are usually mutually opposed. Of course, there is one condition, and it is not only about the budget and the realisation of budgetary policy, it is a condition concerning further structural changes in our economy, i.e. further realisation of the restructuring programme, i.e. privatisation. When I say the budget is developmental, let's start with the social character of the budget first. First, the social character of the budget is depicted by huge social transfers. Donations and social transfers are one-third of the total budget, if I'm not mistaken. For social transfers alone, 166 billion dinars are allocated to this budget, of which 127 billion to the PIO Fund. This remains a testimony that we must enter much more sharply into pension insurance reforms and disbursement the state pension fund, but until then one responsible state must provide the required amount of social transfers, which in this case are even increased, given the envisaged different consents, more favourable for pensioners, the improvement of pension levels. On the other hand, what is positive and what contributes at the same time to the development goal, it is a detachment for the National Employment Service. Somewhere around 15 billion dinars stand out for the National Employment Service, not to mention now that the health fund is four billion, for the military insurance fund 18.6 billion. These are all social transfers that directly testify to the social character of this budget. There is also one category that could be called more social than development, a category of subsidies, which goes towards the economy and I must admit that I expected that this amount of subsidies to the economy, above all I think about the subsidies that remain in the Department of Economy and Privatisation's division, or as it is now called, for the economy and regional development, and last year that amount was three billion. I think it's still a high amount and it should have been smaller, to encourage further restructuring. But in any case, given that the responsibilities of this ministry are significantly extended, I suppose the funds needed are also significantly extended, on the other hand. However, 17 billion dinars, the amount allocated for subsidies to agriculture, is a significant figure and is good news for agricultural producers. I mean, first of all, subsidies along with the water industry, so those two digits when you put together you get a 17-billion-dollar figure. Last year this amount was about 15 billion, and that is one significant increase, and that is one good news, and this is in no way being treated as a social part, this is exactly the developmental part of the budget. For tourism, 2.7 billion are allocated, I hope that in the next period we will be able to spend much more on tourism, for science, for sport than is allocated to this budget, but I will remind you, and in a moment I will return to budget revenues, half of the budget is, in a Colloquitically, filled with the category of value added tax. Total taxes account for more than 93 per cent of total and public revenues. It is very important that more than 25 per cent of the company's tax hike is foreseen. This is, among other things, the category that achieved the biggest increase in 2007, which is in fact the best indicator of the state of the economy measured compared to the previous year. This is an indication that today's economy is much more capable and is much more able to produce profits, after all, last year we for the first time in history, in recent Serbian history, had a situation that total profits were greater than total losses. I expect that, in the coming period, this tax category, with a much larger scope, will contribute even more significantly to the overall public revenues, and hence create conditions for financing the very works that I have mentioned. I now come to that most significant category, which testifies to the orientation of the budget on capital investments, i.e. the orientation of the budget, that it also contains that development component. This is the category of the National Investment Plan. The total budgets are projected at 34.5 billion dinars, but that is not all, an additional 12 billion dinars are foreseen for the National Investment Plan. If the National Investment Plan is implemented in 2008 in this size, it is precisely that level of public investment projected at a level of 4.1 - 4.2 per cent of gross social product may significantly, if not decisively, contribute to the growth of investments in 2008. It should not be forgotten that the budget provides for some extraordinary expenditure in the categories of partial investment, in part donations. If I'm not mistaken, 15 billion are scheduled for the University facilities, we should not forget that we are the organizers of the 2009 University, along with other extraordinary expenditures defined by the budget. In the end, I'd like to say three things. Firstly, I fully agree with the conclusion that the budget is in fact just a financial instrument for the implementation of the previously defined policy, particularly the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's budget, unfortunately, has already acquired rights that have been defined by law to the greatest extent in the beginning. Three quarters of this budget consist of transfers or payments of acquired rights. One quarter of this budget represents salaries, which are once again acquired rights defined by either earlier laws, or earlier decisions or earlier regulations, defined by the government. So you don't have a lot of maneuver space to define development policy by budgeting more significant or stricter, and that's why until these projected growth rates are in continuity, and in one longer time continuity, they don't happen and they don't realize, or until the overall potential of the economy increases, they just have this key set. In this regard, I would like to say that for 2008 it is vital to continue restructuring, primarily state-owned enterprises, because at this point, Serbia's economy and 30% of the total ownership of Serbia's economy, perhaps even more, is in state hands. I think it's exactly where you win the battle for permanent macroeconomic stability and that no budget, however perfect it is, can go on long-term to ensure lasting macroeconomic stability unless it goes beyond the necessary structural change. I am very pleased that also Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, and that other ministers announced that it was in 2008, the year of restructuring and the year in which this most significant shift will be made in creating a much better and more efficient macroeconomic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13773	Thank you, Mr. Vlahovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go. Thank you for your patience, thank you for letting the heads of Parliament come out with the opening statements. After that, he has the word Minister Cvetkovic and then we start on the list of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13774	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, there is no need, Mr. President, to thank me for your patience. The goal is met, Mr. Djelic, vice president, is no longer in the O.R., and I wanted to respond to his address. Mr. Minister, it's sad what he said, it's not funny, you weren't there, so please don't laugh. Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, said the budget is developmental. Budget's not developmental at all. He said the government was real. It's not enough for the government to be real, it's also necessary to be brave, and to be a leader, not to spend more than it's earned. I wanted to ask a few questions to Mr. Djelic. The first question is, why would he need 36 people in his office? It has the largest cabinet, more money in the budget is foreseen for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Ministers than for many others, counting on the prime minister's cabinet. Is it possible that he needs these people to open invitations from Mr. Miskovic to open Delta City and other Delta facilities? Is that why they're necessary? Also, I wanted to ask him why he needs 20 million dinars to travel? That's 250,000 euros. Does he take all that light with him when he travels somewhere? That, Mr. Djelic, when you want to travel somewhere and lead whoever you love, then you can take that kind of budget from your own resources and travel, not from the state money. Mr Djelic boasted of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Mr Djelic announced that the agreement would be signed in June. It's December, so he announces January. Someone has to be responsible for why it wasn't signed in June. Mr Djelic said we are rushing European integration. I would ask Mr. Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, is the budget in which the 120% increase for the Military Intelligence Service, for the Military Security Service 150%, and the BIA has over three billion dinars of the budget, is that the military-police, military-police budget, or is that the budget that leads us to the European Union? I also wanted Mr Djelic to answer the question whether he was familiar with the European Commission's letter that the level of corruption in this country's system, as well as the existence of cartels and monopolys, is such that there is no chance of foreign investment. I know Mr. Djelic is familiar with that. What did he do about it? Is something done or will we yell here - Bravo Minister, Bravo Minister, Bravo Prime Minister. I'd say-- first of all, shame. The European institutions that measure the performance index in the transition to Serbia have assessed in the final place with a score of 2.7, which is scandalous and can't wait for Mr Djelic to come back tomorrow and not run away in 20 minutes after giving his enthusiastic speech, but to wait and talk to lawmakers who owe many answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13775	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS-NS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica, SPS, LDP, Manjina MP groups, G 17 plus MP group and Vojvodjanski MPs. The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13776	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the heads of Parliament's groups have finished, I would like to comment on a few sentences, perhaps answer some questions, while I will stick to those whom Vice President Djelic did not give answers, and he was not there when they were set up. One of the issues that prevailed with several MPs was about Vojvodina, whether the budget is in accordance with the Constitution, whether enough funds are allocated to Vojvodina, whether Vojvodina is the flow water heater of these 24 billion that go for education salaries, so I would try to answer that. First, as far as the figures themselves are concerned, and that was the same question asked, the definition of the budget, what is the budget, whether the budget of the revenues, whether the expenditures, whether they are below the figures, above the figures, summarily, inconclusive, etc. There are different views and unfortunately there is no formal definition in any of the documents. Of course, we know that the budget, if you want to be in a sense cynical, that you can define that it's income and expenditure, that it's one system of accounts, so that it includes text explanations, so you don't know how you're going to apply the evaluation on text explanations. In order to avoid such a way, in the proposal for a new law on the budgetary system, which is at this session, we have put forward a proposal for a definition of what it is, which is the basis on which these 7% are to be applied, as well as some other items where the budget is given as a definition of the basis. Anyway, the bill that one of the MPs said here, he took and 7% applied to these 650 billion, so he said seven times six 42 and seven times five is 35, he came to 47 and roughly to the account we were counting on, and those funds were secured in the budget. It's already mentioned, somewhere around 24 billion are wages in education, plus there's a little something in culture. We have another 18 billion, nine billion of which are the original revenues made by Vojvodina itself, and nine billion are the cash funds through the NIP that will be transferred, which gives about 42 billion, and the difference will be secured through privatisation revenues. You know that the DDOR is privatised and that half of that amount will be transferred to the Vojvodina budget after the payment is made, the payments will be made in the following year, so it is not disputed that the Vojvodina budget will have the means to which it was referred. Noting that it's a flow water heater, as a pool of funds, so they immediately pass, that remark is in place, but it applies to any budget. So the republican budget also raises funds, so it divides them for wages. When you look, it's absolutely one such approach. It is possible that here the observation is about who makes the decisions on the use, whether it takes Vojvodina to make decisions on the use of these funds to pay people in education, but it is a matter of political relations and I would not enter into those considerations. In any case, I think it should go to decentralisation, to a measure that does not endanger Serbia's statehood. It's about the Duke's funds. There was one observation that there was not enough resources to develop in the budget. When it's said there's not enough resources, then it's one qualitative court, which means there has to be a comparison with something, is the observation that there's less funds now than last year, and I could say it's not true. The budget itself contains slightly less funds at the NIP's position, but the credit lines are therefore open, so that even more resources are available in the development sense, so that this development component of the budget appears in this context. On the other hand, there was an observation regarding the definition of a reduction in public spending, a visa pay where various criticisms were made. I think and actually my message from here is that when you look at public consumption and when it's set as a goal of reducing it, you should basically watch its participation in a total gross social product move. When you reduce public spending in the gross social product, this means that most of it remains available to those who created it and then they can now invest, which is just demonstrated by this budget, which has reduced public spending at a consolidated level by 0.8% compared to the 2007 plan. So it's something that's certainly a good result and it's going towards these pledges about the surplus budget. I personally also advocate that the budget enters the surplus, but it has proved impossible to do so in the short term, as some MPs have even suggested even here, for the simple reason that most of the budget is basically already defined and you have no position to realise that kind of savings. I'll give you, for speculation, figures to see what it looks like. If your gross social product is estimated to be about two thousand seven hundred billion next year, then those two three percent surpluses that are proposed amounting to seven hundred billion, which means you have to take it off somewhere. When you look at only three items, it's transfers, and that's what we're pointing to different places, Vojvodinas, etc. And then you take the second item, these are the salaries of these 176 billion that someone mentioned, and you add more to the welfare of close to 70, only those three items when you add up that it's already going to be over 450 billion. Now you have only 100 billion to save 60. It's just not possible. The direction is good, it's going in that direction, but in a year it's impossible to achieve it. I have to say, the question about the deficit that's been criticised here, we'd love to be zero, but this deficit is much more quality than the 2007 deficit, because basically we don't have so-called. The third license that holds about 25 billion dinars, so the de facto this deficit this year is 25 billion higher, if we believe that license is not income, but as nominally indicated, which means that in one year we absorbed that difference of 25 billion, which is success. If we do it next year, we'll already have a surplus, and the others we'll even have a surplus at the desired level, which was mentioned here. About the RZO, first, someone said not all the funds were shown. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The problem is that it is a question of the definition of the law and what is the relationship between the treatment of unsecured persons. So it's quite wrong to interpret that this country does not want to treat unsecured persons. Not true, all unsecured faces will be treated. The question here is only the possibilities of funds that would be in the form of donations, i.e. payments for fees of those costs transferred to the RZZ. As you can see, we've transferred a little less than five billion here, one in four directly for these purposes and a little less than a billion for investments in these institutions. The question was, why did it not comply with the law? I can tell you that's a legitimate question. We agreed with the law, in the sense that the law was prepared and it goes to the Assembly. We thought it would be a united debate, but as you can see, we couldn't even combine with the budget other tax laws that, by nature, things go with it. Someone mentioned it, but it's more of a political flossula, related to the Anti-Corruption Council, that he got less money than he did last year. However, we have information that they've received as much as they've asked. It's less than last year, but they weren't cut off, not as much as they asked for, they got so much, and I think that's fine, so at least they passed it on to me. Otherwise, it's a very small item and it's completely insignificant. Secondly, I'd like to say that there have been objections about the foreign trade deficit, one idea to get rid of it by introducing high customs duties, etc. It's part of a mile that's a little different than I understand the way to solve it. In theory, when you ban total imports, then there are no deficits, but the way it is solved is through raising the competitive capacity of this economy, structural reforms, etc., and not through bans that only make things harder on the long term. There was a question, too, about VAT and baby equipment, and the issue appears in several places. Around here, the main problem is the definition of this question -- is erasing VAT is the goal that wants to be achieved or is it a means to achieve another goal? The finance ministry felt that removing VAT was a means of achieving another goal, then considering what the second goal was and gave a whole series of proposals it considered much better than to abolish VAT. But here, it's completely separated and it's going, it's only targeting the VAT as a basic goal and we can look at it that way. Of course, then we'd have to increase, for example. some other rate, maybe a general VAT rate at 19, so we would balance the losses, but it's really hard for me to understand that someone's goal is to lift something unless there's some material interests behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13777	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, three MPs called. First People's Ambassador Alexander Vukitch, come in. Then the People's MP Alexander Marton, then you, Mr. Marash. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13778	Mr. President of the National Assembly, this morning I went out for this pay phone and asked you to answer one of my key questions. The budget law is the highest law the National Assembly adopts, in the hierarchy of legal acts is only the Constitution above the budget, but I must say that today the state of Serbia is collapsing in many places and many ways. We didn't get any answers today. I listened carefully to Mr Shormaz's speech, I didn't even want to react when he read the SMS message, the agency news from Beta and Tanjug of 12.08, said Vojislav Kostunica, who criticised the EU for his views and said it would certainly harm our future relations if the EU took a position on the need to support Kosovo and Metohija, or Kosovo. We didn't get any answers from any of the national authorities. I'm counting on Mr. Shormaz not being a state organ either, or something's changed in the meantime. It would be good for you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, or for us as MPs to state what this is about, or for us to propose as political parties to the resolution, which I don't think would be good, given the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the interests of our people, and for the decisions of EU countries, therefore, at the Council of Ministers of the EU, all but us friendly Cyprus, to accept Kosovo's independence, supervised independence as the only solution to the crisis on the Balkan Peninsula. Now I'm asking a few questions about it, and then I'm going to say what's the direct cause of my reporting to the Rules of Procedure, if you don't mind me, Mr. President. In fact, this only shows how hypocritical we are, not towards ourselves, but towards the citizens of Serbia. We know among ourselves that you don't tell the truth when you're talking - an egg, an EU living, we're getting prosperity, we're gonna enjoy it, they're all good to us, they're our best and greatest friends in the world. I remind you that you told the citizens of this country to the people of this country. Now I'm asking you-- why don't you come out now and say-- we're okay with it because that's what our friends do to us. How many millions of euros, Mr. President, have we spent on travel and roaming from Masima D'Alema to Angela Merkel and I don't know who in the EU. Every time we were persuaded by Tadic and Kostunica that the Serbian thing stood stronger than ever, that we were about to, not only KIM, but I don't know what we got. Kosovo and Metohija must belong to us. What happens at the end of all these great friends, of all these wonderful stories? Turn out, the EU is kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. My question, in order for people to understand this not as a criticism, is that I went out, I'm counting, as someone who can plead your responsibility and your seriousness, because I don't think you're an unserious man. What's our reaction? Is our reaction still to be negotiated and to be between two rounds of presidential elections, and it is considered that Mr Tadic and Mr Nikolic will enter the second election round, I hope Mr Nikolic will win, of course, and you, Mr Tadic. You're negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. My question to you - is this the European Union signing a Stabilisation and Association Treaty with a new country it calls Serbia, which will be defiled for Kosovo and Metohija or not? If not, on the basis of which facts you base it and whether as a National Assembly, we will condition that anything be signed with anyone only if it supports and accepts the territorial integrity, integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. There is no answer to that question today, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I went out tonight on TV B92, I wouldn't say they're particularly significant, but they forged my words, or they didn't release the second part of the sentence, which is not fair, you'll agree. They let go -- do you think we domestic traitors are very smart now, and I say I wouldn't talk about it, and that's the end, even though it was "but": but I think your leadership is thieving and criminal, because you've damaged the state of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13779	Time, Mr. Wolfie, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13780	Mr. Dulic, I don't mind, and I accept that you remind me and I will finish. I don't like it when you do it under pressure from someone from some other parliamentary groups. I saw who it was. I don't like ladies never to say anything bad, ladies I respect, and that's why I didn't want to say the name of whoever did it. I'm going to finish, Mr. Dulic, and I'm sure you won't mind, because I think this is a much more important topic than any other. In all of this, I wanted to show you what we've burned and to what extent we're going into that hypocrisy. For seven years, you've been teaching us, people, for seven years you've been telling us that the most beautiful thing that's happened to us was the burning of the Assembly, the burning of Serbian TV and the five-eyed coup. We've been hearing this for seven years. Then when someone in your ranks dared to tell one of your televisions, it would be, you'd go just like this Bastille, meaning godly, noble, just like you said when it happened, then you said it was a crime of terrorism. How God - fearing work and, on the other hand, terrorism also work God - fearingly. How, on the one hand, our friends, and on the other hand, take away Kosovo and Metohija. We are interested in answering key questions for Serbian citizens, Mr. Dulic. I know people are interested in what they'll pay. We're not going to determine them, because it's already a narrow circle of people from the government, ministers, they've already decided, they've made a budget for themselves, for their own purposes, for them to be praised, that they can be kidnapped, and the citizens won't see anything from it. I ask you, Mr. Dulic, what about our Serbia? We have one Serbia, we don't have a spare homeland. What about Kosovo and Metohija? Are we still going to say that policy behind us is more important than country policy or not? Today I hear statements from your ranks, your party's ranks, that this particular...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13781	Mr. Wolfie, you're really going in for the third in the third minute. I'm asking you to finish up or call me back, and we'll go with the next one. I'm going to answer this question you asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13782	Mr. Dulic, I don't mind. Let me tell you, I've never done this before. You know I'm very correct with all my fellow Members. I've never abused this watch, not the time, not even rarely go out for a pay phone. If you haven't figured this out or if you've found yourself hit because I mentioned your MP group or political party, I'm sorry. I'd like to give serious answers as a state. I wish Mr. Tadic hadn't gone out with his solutions, which means exactly what's worst for our country, which I just said. I would like that policy to be established and determined here, which will be run by both the government and all the other state authorities. If you don't find it appropriate that the National Assembly should do this job, I don't mind. I just want to tell you, I'm done with it, that we have no other state and that there is no Serbia if there is no Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia is Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13783	As for the issue you have raised, Mr Vukic, although the plan was to hold a session on 15 December to discuss a report by the Negotiating Team on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, then on December 22nd, after the Security Council session, to be the adoption of a new resolution. Minister Samardzic suggested that the 19th meeting be held afterwards and that a report by the Negotiating Team be held afterwards and that we try to bring some common ground regarding all the things you have opened today. So I'm asking for a little patience. Simply, we cannot talk about Kosovo until we have a report from the negotiating team and it will be in the next few days. So I'm sure we'll take a stand. Then we'll have a chance, Mr. Wolfie, to make a statement about all the things you've opened, of course. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Marton, there you go, then MP Slobodan Maras, then MP Vladan Batic and then MP Zarko Obradovic. I suggest we keep working on the list then. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13784	Mr. President, I must report to the Rules of Procedure and ask a few questions to the Minister under Rule 225 and Article 226. Maybe this is in some sense a replica, because I think all of this we just heard from Minister Cvetkovic is not in favor of the real state of things. We have just heard from the president of the Vojvodjani Parliament Club, Mr Nenada Canka, about the position of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, which is clear according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We've said a long time ago what we think of those seven percent that are meant for the AP Vojvodina budget. We think it's an extremely small percentage. What's very important, even those 7% are not respected. We stand firm behind these words of ours. It is clear that in these 7% are also included salaries for employees in education and funding part of the programme in the field of culture. I think Mr. Cvetkovic is also quite familiar with this information and I don't know why he and the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, are here several times tonight. And to accept those 7%, such 7%, we can say that realisation of the province budget is only 41%. That's an incredibly small percentage. I would also inform Mr Cvetkovic that for the Fund for Capital Investments from the Republic budget, it has been transferred from 23 billion, as planned, slightly less than 20% or only four billion. These are facts that are quite realistic. What's worse, and you've heard it from the presentation of several of my predecessors from our and minority MPs' club, is that it's a very bad fact, which LSDV often says, that Vojvodina no longer has its own statistical institution that can control these financial flows in the AP Vojvodina. It is very important to point out that the AP Vojvodina Development Fund has been transferred from projected billions and six million dinars to something like 3% or 60 million dinars. That's the data we're standing behind from LSV. I would just point out, just one finding, if I didn't understand whether part of those four billion dinars, which were transferred from the republican budget for the Capital Investment Fund, might be part of the issue of printing brochures that we can find in the media for a few weeks now. I would just say that the brochures with the signatures of Bojan Pajtic and the director of the Capital Investment Fund, with the pre-election slogan DS and the colours of the DS flag. These are some of our sightings and some questions for Mr. Secretary. I would like the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Vice President who is not there, to give a little more realistic answers and see things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13785	Thank you, Mr. Marton. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras appeared, and let MP Vladan Batic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you were just a moment ago, so I realized, in part, that I was responding to what I was saying as well as the other MPs who addressed the subject of these seven percent, that is, Article 4 and all that follows in Article 5, Article 16, etc. I've just realized that, and I've asked you on the board or asked a colleague president, but it turns out to me that after what you said is really a budget of 730 billion, not 640, and therefore 50 billion is seven percent of this budget, or 21 billion is three weeks for capital expenditure. We have nine billion in the NIP. You were on the Finance Committee yesterday, if you allow me to say, that is, your associate said that in the past year, about 6 billion were collected from the profit tax, or 42% from the AP Vojvodina territory, or 18% from the profit tax, and that this year there will be 7 billion. You said nine billion tonight. I'm glad that amount, in your opinion, is going to be more than two billion, but I'm deeply convinced that it's not half of it, for the simple reason that there's no official record of these figures. So let's see how many billions have been collected based on those two taxes to be transferred to Vojvodina. Nine billion on the NIP and the few billion, so it's missing up to 21 billion. You have, this year, skillfully in the 2008 draft budget, avoided what was done in 2007. Under economic classification, 551 in the last budget stood the NIP for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and now there is no such thing. I can't really believe, and I believe all of the Vojvodjans, that the Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic will respect the law, respect the budget law and those funds that are in his possession in the economic classification of 551 provided for the NIP, will give a certain portion to Vojvodina. Also, some ministers have the right to dispose of these funds, and yet undermining is not decidently stated. You're because of that, I'm not saying you, but the drafter has skillfully avoided defining the figures that are necessary to add those seven percent. I underline, the prime minister most responsible for this budget, violates the Constitution, violates Article 184 already twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13787	The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13788	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. Mr. Minister, it is not correct in front of the MPs and in front of the citizens of Serbia to say what you just said that the Anti-Corruption Council has been asking for as much money as is foreseen in the budget. That's not true, and you can't tell the truth. I'm not gonna use any rougher expressions. I just got off the phone with Mrs. Barach to check on what you've been telling the truth. From your Ministry of the Anti-Corruption Council came a memo saying they can count and dispose of so much resources that they can no longer, for reasons that the budget is restrictive. If not, you show the opposite paper that the Anti-Corruption Council asked for it. It's a lie, Mr. Minister. The second question for you is, let's start with something that doesn't have a direct one, but it has what to do with finance. Mr. Minister, it is your duty to respond to the citizens of this country: where are Serbia's foreign reserves? Let's go out nicely, that as your prime minister, who can look anyone in the eye, but doesn't look anyone in the eye, you say where the foreign reserves of Serbia are, in which bank, where the foreign bank, how many foreign reserves of Serbia are located in the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, where the money from the sale of Mobtel, but get us the papers. You make a deal with your advisor, I'll wait. When you speak, to bring papers and document it, not to invent and deceive the citizens of this country. What does it mean to write off debts and finance RTS? Is that a restrictive budget? Is it a shame to fund RTS today, which is a public service, which collects revenue beyond the fees of Serbian citizens? One more thing, Mr. Minister, what you said about VAT on baby equipment, it's at least incorrect, it's an insult to common sense, to the citizens of Serbia, to the patriarch, whom they called and dragged by the sleeve. Now the poor patriarch has fallen ill, and now the promise that was made to him is not worth it. You don't have to explain it, Mr. Minister, but explain another thing: how is it that in a country where you're the finance minister of baby equipment, baby diapers cost three times as much as in Germany? Pelena in Serbia, baby equipment, baby food costs three times as much as in Germany. That when you explain, and then explain the need for VAT to exist everywhere and even for baby equipment. Otherwise, it's going to be such a cheap demagogue similar to this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13789	Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13790	But we have just established new criteria regarding the length of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's set up a seven-minute criterion and I'm going to stick to that criterion very pedanticly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13791	There are no such criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13792	Don't get in my word, you're distracting me, I'd be done by now. You don't always have to demonstrate your intelligence. Come on, sometimes keep it inside you, it sounds a lot better when you keep it quiet. So, I'm done. For Mr Dulic, what will happen to the elections, and I remind this country of the ruling coalition that today, the prime minister has warned the EU that there is no access to an Association and Stabilisation Agreement without Kosovo. So either the whole of Serbia is going to the EU or not at all, going into alliance with Russia and Belarus, there is our "happy" future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13793	The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13794	Very briefly on these four questions. First, as far as the Anti-Corruption Council is concerned, I have been informed by my associates that there is a document from which their request is made, and tomorrow I will make that document available to Mr Batic. If I'm not there, then my associates have fooled me. Secondly, as far as foreign reserves are concerned, it seems to me that the question has already happened once. It should be understood, for reasons of understanding, that foreign reserves and the Ministry of Finance are not in any correlation. So, foreign exchange reserves are held by the National Bank, and it has the obligation under the law to keep them at tripple A banks and trust me, I personally don't know where they're staying. I encourage you to ask a parliamentary question to the National Bank and let it answer you. As far as I know, it's considered a state secret, but I believe that you, as a MP, can have insight into it. Anyway, I don't know where they are, nor did I ask for that information. As far as the price of diapers is concerned, and if they are really three times more expensive, it proves once again that the 18 percent would not reduce the price and that is precisely why it is also a target, and the reason why it is affecting the removal of VAT rather than some other measures that would go with this goal. As far as RTS is concerned, the proposal to grant the RTS forgiveness of the debt is a proposal created as a result of the fact that the debt essentially occurred in the period when the budget financing was abolished, and the subscription has not yet been made. Then, practically, RTS ran out of funds and asked for budget loans that actually made him that debt. That's where it comes from.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13795	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the SPS MPs, injured us, member 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is called dignity. Mr. Cvetkovic, I will read with interest what you said. I didn't like what I heard, I didn't like it, I didn't like it, I didn't like it. I didn't like it. I didn't like it. If you think that some of the MPs who are carriers of the idea that VAT should be abolished, motivated by material reasons, then you have missed a place, especially not to talk about how to communicate. If you don't appreciate our MPs, then you should appreciate yourself, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, pay attention to what I'm saying, I'm talking to you. I quote, this is June when we held a budget debate, when the finance minister, here present Mr Cvetkovic, says, and then I quote him: "The Ministry of Finance supported on Thursday the initiative of 16 NGOs to reduce the amount of VAT in buying food, clothing and equipment for babies, but also apply a number of other measures to lower prices." Now you're quoted as saying, "I support this idea that in just 12 hours, 40,000 signatures have been collected. I don't think, however, that the only solution is to reduce VAT'. So, you're not questioning the VAT reduction, and now all the others who advocate that idea are qualified in one very unworthy way. Not to mention, tomorrow when I talk about this subject, the five different statements you made in June on the subject. Mr. Patriarch Pavle was mentioned, the Prime Minister promised him that VAT would be abolished publicly. Is Mr. Patriarch Paule motivated by material reasons? Is the material gain present with him, if the MPs consider us Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic? Is it also Mr. Patriarch Paul who is motivated by material reasons when he asks for the removal of VAT? Probably, in the opinion of you, comrade leftist from the DS. You have all the material. You can't start something else, suggest you have an initiative, if someone doesn't have a material one, because you've learned materially. If someone can acquire an estate of 11m euros in three years, then I fully understand the motives, the ways, the roots of thinking about this. We had one noble idea in mind and no one convinced us that it was wrong, and especially what the minister himself admits is one of the ways in which this issue could be solved. Now what he said on Thursday, along with Mr. Dulic, and on Saturday he changed his mind, and here he told us a whole 10th story, and then he said it would be in the 2008 budget, and now there's not a word about it, he's talking about the government and we're going to talk about it more tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13797	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13798	I'd just like to make a few views of the Roma budget party. Minister, we really understand that it is difficult to meet all needs in the budget, that many have demands, that many want money, that many things cannot be done without money. But today, it's already too late, just to look at one fact that we heard today and see, eventually, how it reflects on a very important social issue. Today it is said that the budget reflects the government's policy. Today, Mr Djelic said that society that makes big differences between citizens is certainly not a good society. He then said, among other things, that it is investing in the development of undeveloped areas, i.e. in the development of undeveloped social groups. It is also said that there is somewhere in the National Investment Plan, Mr. Vlahovic spoke, about 34 and a half million dinars of funds. You were talking about that the budget is not expansional, however, the budget, as far as the Roma National Community is concerned, is extremely restrictive compared to the 2007 budget. I want to ask you to explain this to the Assembly, since I suppose it is not your responsibility, that it is not your fault that this year's service for human and minority rights is no longer the 12 million funds that were in that budget last year, thanks to the amendment of the Roma Party, which you supported. The Social Affairs Ministry also supported and found the funds. If there was no request for these funds in this budget, then I ask you to introduce us to this fact and that we know who doesn't want the funds to create an institutional framework for improving the position of Roma. Why does it matter? This year, just out of the 12 million, a working group of eight experts, which was supposed to help the Roma community participate more in the implementation of various budget parts aimed at socially endangered categories. The group, thanks to last year's transfer of funds for next year, can work until about six months, seven months, and then has to stop working. The conditions are about to be created for different ministries to start actively from their budget lines to allocate funds in that direction, however, these pairs are now gone. As a MP, I have submitted an amendment, asking to re-determin the funds of the Human and Minority Rights Service of 5 million, so that the task force may continue its work, unfortunately still as a working group, rather than as an integral part of the Service for Human and Minority Rights. Tomorrow I'm going to ask Mr Djelic, he promised, when it was parliamentary issues, that he would start talks on the formation of an interminist committee and he said, in some words -- next week we'll finish it, just pick up. However, the next week has not yet come its turn. The first question was passed on to one of his advisers, who I have a good opinion of as a human, for Ms. Tinde Kovac-Cerovic. However, if the Deputy Prime Minister transfers to his advisers to deal with such important political issues and agree with MPs, then either these MPs do not deserve to sit down with him to discuss it or it is a third-rate issue, so let the political advisers agree on the whole story. That would end this part of my exposure and I'd ask for the other five minutes to stay for tomorrow. I'm asking the minister, if he can, for these two minutes just to give me an answer if you haven't identified the funds or the service hasn't asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-11-0.u13799	Dear People's MPs, this is what we finish today's work and continue tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you, everyone. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that 88 MPs are present, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a member of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
