ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3922	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meeting is attended by the 90-nation MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dačić, Borka Vukic, Dusan Bajatovic, Nenad Canak. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW (sumption in particular) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanović to Article 15. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zarko Obradovic. Now we'll hear it. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3923	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have come to you using the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. I, as a National MP, and I hope most of the MPs who participated yesterday in the assembly debate on baby equipment VAT, are also interested in asking for a notice as to why the RTS public service considers this to be an issue that should not be notified to the public of Serbia. The topic gathers the attention of at least 35,000 people who have signed an initiative to abolish VAT. So, at least that much we have, and I hope we have a far greater number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia for it. It is interesting that yesterday in the main Public Service Journal, which is said to be a television that allows citizens to know everything, it is not allowed to know what caused the government not to accept the VAT proposal. Whether it is a poor amendment or a European Union directive, the absence of a list of products that are released or something else, does not really matter. It is not an honor for RTS to ignore the position of at least 35,000 people, and MPs who participated in the debate. In fact, yesterday we had an opportunity to hear information about a group of citizens who are damaged or will be travelling to Turkey, to hear about fighting, drug treatment, which are also very interesting topics. But we couldn't hear any point of view about the request to abolish the VAT in the Assembly. The public service of RTS should finally tell us whether it is the service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or whether it is the government's service. If the government has no answer to any questions in the Assembly, then that information is not published, it is not necessary because it is not useful to the government. The public service should tell us this, because it is obvious that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not in the same way represented in public service programmes. Not to mention that all MP groups are not represented, too, after that. But if we pay the subscription, and most citizens pay, then forgive me, we socialists ask that we be informed about those things that the government doesn't like or that the government doesn't have answers to. I have to thank the other media who passed on yesterday's information about the VAT debate, as well as Mr. Minister, because we finally heard the essence yesterday, why the government doesn't accept the VAT proposal. So the rejection of these amendments has nothing to do with the European Union directives, it has nothing to do with whether the amendment is good or not, because the government could suggest that the second one was willing to accept; it has nothing to do with whether a list of products was made; it has no connection with the social structure to which the amendment would apply. It has to do with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia failed to assess the impact of accepting these amendments or one of these two amendments in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the point. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not take this issue into account at all when considering this set of laws and there was no opportunity for these amendments to be accepted. It's okay, I don't like it, but it's okay. But it would be fair if it were said here, and the MPs, to say, don't beat up on other things. Serbia's radio-television, as a public service, must inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about all the things that are happening here, whether they are favourable or unfavourable for the parliamentary majority and government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3924	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. Excuse me, Mr. Cvetanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3925	I don't know, gentlemen, what are you talking about, because obviously you're not from this story. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has insisted on adopting several amendments, primarily to the abolition of value added tax on baby equipment and children's clothes for children up to 10 years of age. This is primarily because we believe Serbia's future is right in children who are born and who are to be born. Because if we all stand up as MPs for Serbia's future, then we must show practically how we treat problems, white plague problems, negative birth rates. In order for the birth rate to be positive, it is necessary, statistically speaking, for the birth rate to be at least 2.1% in order to be able to count on the perspective in our country. The second amendment, which was insisted by the Serbian Radical Party during yesterday's session, concerns the abolition of excise duty on import juices, primarily because this way the government of the Republic of Serbia is destroying domestic production, especially since today the external trade deficit is expressed. If we already have that deficit, then we must have radical measures to simply improve our Serbia's economic policy. The third amendment we insisted on refers to a reduction in excise duty from 40% to 30%, and we have proven that it will not contribute to a reduction in the price of coffee and that our citizens who consume in large quantities of coffee do not benefit economically from all this. The biggest benefit will be for importers, and the budget will continue to be denied for a large part of the funds, and it is reportedly aimed at the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry to raise funds in the budget. The fourth position and amendment ahead of this amendment concerns the release of the excise duty on jet engines, i.e. kerosene and oil. On the one hand, we have a large number of citizens who are on the bottom of social endurance, and on the other hand we are removing excise duties from people who are obviously rich. They represent a smaller population in our Serbia, people we usually recognize in Serbia that they are tycoons, because they have taken over the primate in supplying Serbia's market and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia gives them an even greater profit. He's obviously only working for that smaller, but by them, a more important population. Then we come to one of the perhaps crucial amendments of the Serbian Radical Party at this session, which is that this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia concerning the excise duty on liquid oil gas is not adopted. For what? There's a lot of reasons. First, I will define Article 15 relating to Article 21b and 21v, where it says: "The excise duty on liquid oil gas is carried out during the sale of liquid oil gas to the final consumer for motor vehicle propulsion". The Serbian Radical Party's amendment defines that Article 15 is changed and reads: "The excise calculation is carried out by the customs authority at the moment of entry into the Republic of Serbia". The explanation is short and clear – it is unacceptable to introduce an excise on the liquid gas used to drive motor vehicles. The energy users belong to the economically most vulnerable population of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, it's about the purest energy, which is at least ecologically threatening the environment, and we're all supposed to advocate that our environment is healthy and we should have such a fiscal policy that will stimulate its use for these purposes. I would remind you that the ruling majority's MPs have given the exact same amendments as representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. It is, above all, the honourable G17 MP to Mr Ivan Zivadinović. He made an amendment not to accept absolutely this view by the government of the Republic of Serbia that this excise on liquid oil gas should be paid 6 dinars per kilogram by the end of the current year, and since the beginning of 2008, 10 dinars per kilogram. I do not understand, although Mr Ivan Zivadinovic has made clear and loud, with all arguments, why all MPs should vote for such an amendment, is not present in the hall, and I see that he has changed his mind in the meantime; it is likely that the influence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is totally unacceptable and incorrect. Mr. Ivan Zivadinovic's amendment was quite clear. It is defined that there are 150,000 vehicles in Serbia that use liquid oil gas and that we should continue to stimulate precisely the use of these vehicles. I remind you that in these months, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to increase the price of the same liquid oil gas from 31 to 39 dinars. In addition, he is now trying to excise the price of that fuel that soon, if they continue, with this tendency, will have the same price as gasoline, or unleaded. For what? You need to know that the consumption of liquid oil gas is at least 20% higher than the consumption of regular fuel, or gasoline, and with such excises and with this tendency, we have absolutely no stimulation when it comes to the use of such vehicles. The reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia is completely inadequate. They say that, according to data from competent institutions (not to say which are competent but thus defined), 197% of growth was achieved in the period 2003-2005. I remind you that in 2002, in six regions, Jablanski, Pcinski, Pirotski, Toplički, Nisavski, you had only one gas station - Energogas Nis, and six regions were supplied only at one gas station. It is logical that when you have a start position of 0.1 for 2003, 2004 and 2005 growth is 197%. So, statistics show a lot, but when the statistics are used by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they show that they also know that they deceive the public, because if consumption was minimal in 2002, normally during 2003, 2004 and 2005 we expect a slight increase in use. They say that in some countries around them, they list Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, the price is 1.5 - 2.8 times higher. I don't know, obviously we use different data and some completely different literature. The price in the environment is such that the price of oil gas is about 50% relative to super, unleaded gasoline, etc. Only in Greece is the price of 0.60 euros compared to unleaded or plain gasoline. These are prices in the environment, so both in EU countries and in some other countries surrounding us, so I don't know how they got these data, but I'm giving you precise data. They say that the possible fall in budget revenue from oil derivatives in the future should be tempered, a possible fall. Just by accepting these amendments by the Serbian Radical Party, if the government of the Republic of Serbia, or MPs of the assembly majority, would certainly not have dropped revenues in the budget. I remind you that we have 150,000 vehicles used in Serbia with plates on Montenegro. Has Vojislav Kostunica, as former and current prime minister, promised that the state of Serbia-Montenegro would be together, that he is a guarantee of such a state? Yes, it is. Should someone have political responsibility for the 150,000 vehicles imported and having Montenegrin plates? I guess someone should. If someone was guaranteed, and it turned out not to be a guarantee, then at least let them allow 150,000 vehicles with Montenegrin plates to register, pay taxes, and here is Minister Cvetkovic's 30m-euro profit. In this way, we increase the possibility of reducing some other excise duties and acting stimulatingly, reducing the value added tax when it comes to baby equipment, and also the excise duty on liquid oil gas. Obviously, neither the Prime Minister nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a vision, a desire to meet Serbian citizens, and even less so. In the government's explanation, they say that only taxis use vehicles, as well as light delivery vehicles with less loadability. It is true that over 90% of the liquid oil gas is used by taxi drivers, but this particular government of the Republic of Serbia, like lawyers, prefers to communicate with people who earn money for their family by driving such vehicles. Because the easiest thing to do is to block Belgrade, the government of the Republic of Serbia, when necessary -- let's hire taxi drivers. If we know that the average age of the vehicle is 15 years, if we know it is necessary to adapt such vehicles from 290 to 1,100 euros, although Mr. Paja Momchilov said that it is not 1,000 euros, depending on the vehicle, depends on the exhaust branches, on the connections, it goes up to 1,100 euros, if you pay a tax on all of this, if you have to reregister the vehicle, you certainly do not stimulate the consumption of liquid oil gas. Not to mention the political dimension, if we're importing liquid oil gas from Russia, and we're asking Russia to help us now that Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, and we want to block them this way. If we have the goal of having economic parameters in Serbia, the economic parameters are that both the Western economy and the Russian economy can have the right to an even and fair match on our premises. That's where we, as citizens of Serbia, can make a profit. Do only taxis use liquid oil gas? Many households use it, especially in Vojvodina, many catering facilities. So, people who make money and pay taxes and obligations to the state. When in the last sentence of an argument that makes it impossible to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, they define that this will not produce a direct impact on inflation, I am not sure that that is the case; or they are precise -- perhaps the direct impact on inflation will not be present, but indirectly it will lead to increased inflation. As representative of the SRS, I appeal to MPs above all the ruling coalition, because the opposition's representatives are fully clear on the last day of their awareness that they want to support these amendments, to think about what they promised in the campaign, whether they want to respect the citizens of Serbia who are at the lower threshold of social sustainability and to enable them to have a better and better life in the coming period, or whether we will continue to tell empty stories, which is to fit into European integration, but only in 2012, then 2014, or most likely in 2020, when all the countries from the EU come out of the European Union. Then only Serbia will continue to be a candidate and only in 2030 will we allow Serbia's citizens a quality and better life. I think the statistics are clear, accurate, the arguments are in front of you. The finance minister is here all the time, and I thank him for his attention, but he has received some qualities like his prime minister. The more he hangs out with the prime minister, the more he looks like him. It's hard to look the speakers in the eye, I don't know why he's looking at laterally left or right all the time. He probably knows that the MPs of the SRS are right and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3926	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The government is proposing that the amendment not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. In previous days, much has been said, the amendments have been discussed by the representatives of the SRS and have treated in the most qualitative way all issues and all the problems of the citizens of Serbia, on this basis, where the layers of our citizens are the smallest and where they will, on this basis, feel the most about all these newspapers introduced by this government based on excise duties. I find it unacceptable to introduce excise duties on liquid gas used to drive motor vehicles because the energy users belong to the economically most vulnerable population of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, it is the purest energy that threatens the environment at least, so the state should stimulate its use by its fiscal policy for these purposes. And because of the price currently most favourable and accessible to Serbian citizens, I believe it is necessary for liquid oil gas to remain free of the excise duty provided for by this law. I stress that the previous legal solution was also in favour of protecting the environment and protecting the financial interests of Serbian citizens. It was followed by additional stimulation in the registration of motor vehicles using liquid oil gas as fuel. We have such cases in a number of countries in the environment, where, on this basis, the consumption of liquid oil gas is stimulated, because it is the most environmentally acceptable, the least polluting environment, and on the other hand because it is also the most accessible to the citizens, consumers of this energy. In favour of the view that this should remain this way and with these prices, I will also provide some data that should eventually be taken into account both Mr. Minister and Government, which is that only 10 per cent of the fuel consumption for auto-gas cars. I think this information needs to tell you a lot and to change your attitude, your opinion, and also the government, so that this amendment is respected. Another information: 80,000 Leskovec residents, municipalities with 148,000 inhabitants, have only three pumps to pour liquid oil gas. It is also this information that supports the need to increase the energy consumption in some way by stimulating measures. The largest number of liquid gas vehicles is owned by a taxi driver, or they're easy delivery vehicles, so we can figure out that after 2000, the largest layer of the population, the poorest, focused on this way making a living, for the reason that by now, in some way, the most acceptable. Now we're putting them in a position to reorient and bring their existence to the brink of rentability, i.e. on the verge of survival. That's where different things can happen. There is a danger that drivers turn to filling cars with gas from the bottle, which happened in crisis years, because the price difference is a few dinars. We've had a scene like this before. Imagine that at this time, when we are all getting ready to enter Europe, we are creating an extremely unpopular situation -- that the population, to survive, to fight to make a few more dollars, uses these methods. And the fact is that domestic gas is cheaper and will remain cheaper than this gas used to drive a car. This information is extremely important. After all, you should accept it as a fact and reason for this amendment to be recognised. We will be extremely unpopular in the situation that the price of liquid oil gas, according to all these indicators that are presented through the government's proposal, will be around 50 dinars. The parity, by which it takes 50 percent to be cheaper liquid gas than gasoline, is already collapsing and bringing the population into a situation, citizens no longer have an interest in the use of liquid gas. On the other hand, we have a reduction in excise duty on oil derivatives used for aircraft purposes, to stimulate aviation. I think this is an explanation that you gave extremely incorrectly to this category of population, for the very reason that they are in this particular pay activity. The airline director has 400,000 dinars of salary and you are now making a parallel to one man with so many incomes, with the average far higher than the citizens of Serbia, introducing certain benefits at the expense and to the detriment of the poorest layer of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3928	By amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this part of the oil industry for 28 years, I worked in a company dealing with the distribution of liquid and natural oil gas. I did not report yesterday for the amendment, as Serbian Radical Party MPs highly elaborated this matter. I called today because two sentences from the minister's presentation initiated me. The first is that he doesn't really understand himself in NIS, or oil derivatives, but, well, he defends the law. Mr. Minister, if these ministers of yours, deputies, or state secretaries, are now called, only what they understand, it would be difficult for Serbia, because one tenth would be in the government of Serbia. The second sentence is that the minister calculated that this way the state will take three billion dinars based on excise duties to compensate for some of the losses in the budget, i.e. some of the payments on the other side. Mr. Minister, liquid oil gas has been driven for more than 40 years. The fact is that in Serbia, we only had three or four gas-flow pumps in the vehicle, so people were able to buy hand gas pumps from the bottles used in the household, very easily, but if they didn't work professionally, there would be fires, explosions, accidents, accidents. None of this money, I mean three billion, you won't see in the budget, but only people will give another five, six, or ten thousand dinars to buy a gas pump and then out of the bottle (because there's no excise duty on liquid oil gas for households) will flow and drive on. You might be in a situation, and it smells to me like, well, then, since some of your inspections will notice that people are doing it, you'll also introduce excise gas for households. What is forgotten, at least in this case, which is very interesting, is that there are no harmful ingredients in the combustion of liquid oil gas, only water steam remains. There are also no harmful ingredients in the combustion of natural gas, only water steam remains. Today in the world of vehicles, they are reorganized to drive to natural gas, to a gas that is much harder to translate into liquid, because it takes a low temperature, over 180 degrees below zero, and it takes a lot of pressure, but now I'm not explaining. The liquid oil gas is translated exactly as well as propane and butane, in liquid state, with a lower temperature than the boiling point. Today in Belgrade, we have two or three buses where we are trying to get natural gas into vehicle power consumption. Minister, of this weak vision, you're just going to make a lot more trouble for the citizens, unless you expect to introduce an excise on liquid gas for households at the next stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3930	By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3931	The overall intervention on the introduction of excise duty on this gas, i.e. gas, can be characterized by a few words - the impasse of business. Why are we shutting down? Because this government is working directly against biology. This is your first reason. The second reason, Mr Markovic, explained that practically consumers are forced to bypass six and 10 dinars in one other way since 1 January 2008. Why is this introduced? Probably because some people in the Democratic Party have concluded that traffic jams in Belgrade should be reduced. The analysis concluded that people drive cars through Belgrade because it's cheap when they're driving on auto-gas, and they only like to drive cars through the city, that no one else is allowed to drive; and then how to jump - they figured out to introduce excise. So, you know, we're already paying for something when it comes to water, and it's still on the excise repertoire, and you'll probably, as Mr. President of the National Assembly said in November, also consider the possibility of introducing an excise on fresh air. He who finds himself in the street in the morning will pay for his excise, for he breathes clean air. What does the government want like this? So, to grab the money. How am I supposed to get the money? Indiscriminately, without reflection, without a vision of any policy, without being able to reasonably conclude what should be stimulated through fiscal policy, what should be directed, what should be done in some way, if I can say so, and I can, both by tax policy and excise duties sanction, according to the material possibilities of the users. The basic rule in tax policy is that all citizens are obliged to pay taxes and to settle obligations towards the state, in line with their economic strength and material position. We now have a situation that is likely to accumulate transport, and this must reflect price growth on a small, imminent basis, because it is impossible to avoid the impact of increasing energy prices on price growth. It is impossible to avoid, and if this were to be analised in some way, then Jelasic would have to do something else, and then that macro-economic stability would also be compromised, or it would simply blow up in the cores of the financial market to make some more novelty. In every version, this is worth it. It costs a lot more than it gets. So this is proof that there is no government policy of the Republic of Serbia, it is not unique, but wherever a tax aggregate appears, steal it, because it is a democratic fluid. Let me remind you, we talked about it yesterday, so it's said that there should be no discrimination against the origin of the product. You remember, there were talks about those juices, so it's said that it's inappropriate that there's an excise on import juices and that it doesn't exist at the same time at home. But you next members have even more discrimination with cigarettes. How come you didn't take off discrimination? No, that's where you encourage her. Why? Because business related was a privatisation in 2003, when those who fell out of power hated each other, and now full money buys everything in Serbia. You know exactly who bought a factory; it's one, I think, and the Cane Frog. That's what Mr. Korac knows better, since he was in charge of cigarettes. He announced the construction of a new factory in Kragujevac -- that's where a cigarette factory will be built and hands will be raised from the intended production and from the vehicle. Just to remind you, in 2001 and 2002, when Mr. Cane was, not the one you're after, it was Mr. Cane. So discrimination exists and you're not dissuasive when it comes to discrimination, you're only taking care of your own interests. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the democratic bloc does not allow you to drive a car. We realized yesterday that they wouldn't let you have children, and today they won't let you drive a car.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3932	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20, with a proposal to delete the member. Proposer of this law through article 20 and supplementing the Excise Act as if it is trying to make life worse and more difficult for the general population in Serbia. This article excludes legal persons and entrepreneurs who acquire diesel fuel for the propulsion of construction machinery and ships for the transport of excise refaction cargo. It's a miracle they didn't include those who were getting diesel fuel to drive a tractor, even though it'll probably happen soon enough. That is why the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has submitted an amendment requiring the erasure of this Article 20, and in the interest of a large number of those to whom this proposed amendment applies, as well as citizens who will undoubtedly pay a higher price for products and services. Through this Article 20, what Serbian Radical Party MPs said in the debate in principle – that the whole legislative proposal is directed against Serbian citizens, and in the capacity to protect individuals, or their business interests in the Republic of Serbia. The budget deficit that you have made by liberating large importers' excise duties you want to fill in this way and the burden of small companies in Serbia, which have a lot of employees, which are registered to carry out construction work, as well as cargo shipping services, by losing the right to refuse the excise duty paid during the purchase of diesel fuel. Now let's compare the government's concerns when it comes to, for example, kerosene and jet fuel, and whose interest is protected? The interest of a small number of airline owners is protected. It pours over on each side, even if the government adds little to them with a bill like this. It's as if Serbian citizens are using a mass air transport, so the government has remembered to protect consumers. Then why didn't the government think so in the case of those who use construction machines when they build apartments, roads, schools, hospitals? This is how the Serbian government will collect the price of services, and the contractors will demand bigger amounts of money in the tender; this again comes to burden those who are full of the budget, which are taxpayers, or citizens of Serbia. A little funny sounds like a reason to get rid of paying excise duties on kerosene. As a reason, an incentive is given to the development of aviation. It is as if it is possible and so easy to establish airlines in a country whose airspace is extremely small and as if in Serbia, I say, intercommunal air traffic is going to come to life, which is why these reliefs are being made. You know exactly who they're going to make this easy on. Surely not for the citizens of Serbia. We remember the local elections of a year ago in the municipality of Kraljevo, when in the campaign then the minister, and the current one, promised no less in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the mountain village of Cukojevac near Kraljev, than in the real direction of the airport. Accize is also introduced to liquid gas for motor vehicles, therefore, what is used by the vast majority of Serbian citizens by saving such necessary means of survival in this difficult time. Let Serbian citizens know that the new government has already bought them new gas prices and will soon buy them a new electricity price, and now here is the right to refuse the excise duty on purchased diesel fuel in certain activities. Of course, in order for the picture to be complete, we must mention the elimination of excise duties on imports of juices, fruit and syrup concentrate, therefore, to all that will make it difficult for domestic products to compete on our domestic market. There is a lot of subsidized agricultural production in the European Union; when such products are found on our market, they will certainly be cheaper than ours. After the destruction of meat production, i.e. livestock production, low ransom prices, and production of vegetables and fruits, this completes a long-drawn strategy not only when it comes to Serbia, but also about other countries in transition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking this opportunity to address the citizens of Serbia as the only MP from Paracina for a shameful, traitorous and pointless initiative. This initiative is next - that Carly del Ponte is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. It came from Paracino, from Dragan Sekulovic, the president of the so-called Justice Association. Otherwise, that man came from Zadar in 1991. In fact, the Democratic Party is behind this initiative. Why do I say that? Here are the Democrats, call your president of the Paracino municipality and ask him why the municipal government in Paracina allocates huge material resources to Mr. Sekulovic, hundreds of thousands of dinars; why Mr. Sekulovic is used whenever it is an election campaign to attack the Serbian Radical Party. After the victory of the municipality of Paracin Sasa Paunovic, he walked with him through Paracino, hand-to-hand in hand. When Serbian radicals held a press conference Saturday for this shameful initiative, Mr. Sekulovic, with the help of a journalist, broke into Paracin TV and listened to recorded material from our press conference. Where are those protectors of the press profession now? They're nowhere to be found. That is why I am responsible for saying that the Democratic Party is behind this initiative. I would only say to colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia about this man -- why they did not respond when Mr. Sekulovic, before a time in "Politica", said Vojislav Kostunica, quote, "has killed half of the refugees and displaced persons in Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3934	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Milan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3935	Article 104 is an insult to the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I really apologize, the debate should go according to the amendments, but for precision, since I really don't understand in Paracino and I don't know about Paracino, but that's why I know about the King and the Royal Municipality, for the sake of truth, I wouldn't go into discussion and figure out how true it is: The Chukojevac is not a mountain village in the municipality of Kraljev, located in the valley of West Morava, down the line from the Kingdom to Vranjka Banja. The airport never existed in Chukojevac, it exists in the village of Brodjevac, which is upriver from the King, so it cannot be promised in the hilly village. Because I am an MP from the royal community, I doubt the truth of what my colleague was saying. I repeat, I don't understand Paracino, but I understand in the royal community. Given that we have this tirad of Hyde Park in the Parliament of the previous days, I think they should be a true exposure at least when it comes to geographical concepts in Serbia, because this is nevertheless the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think all representatives representing citizens, no matter what political organisation they belong to, should be precise in their presentations, and what is and which minister where they promised, I really don't care. I'm interested in the King's Community and every place to be called what it is. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3936	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize if I'm wrong, I assume the speaker who spoke before me from the Democratic Party. I didn't understand what you said. Are you from Despotovec or from the King? Secondly, I don't know what you have to do with Minister Ilic's promise. I was the one who heard from me Mr. Ilic that I delivered Mr. Ilic's statement to the town of Chukojevac where he said - we're not enough in the Boats, and here we're going to airport, what you're doing here with raspberries and I don't know what. I heard that. What are you talking about? Who are you talking to here? What were you going to say? Something's hard for you to explain who's giving Carly del Ponte the Peace Prize. You give the peace prize to the worst villains in this country. But I'm not surprised at you from the Democratic Party. Maybe we heard it, maybe the village is plain, it's not mountainous, I don't know what the airport will do to that plain-faring village. I'm counting on it. We'd live a lot better if you gave them a little money without stealing a little less from the state. But whatever you want. I have to ask you, is Serbia flat-line or mountainous? Are we all crazy or are we having a problem with the president of Serbia who apologizes to Croatia for Jasenovac, because of Knin, because of Glina, because of Flash, because of Storm, because of hundreds of thousands of expelled and killed Serbs? Is it Radisa Ilic's fault that she's fighting for the truth in Paracino or Boris Tadic? Are you going to tell me who's to blame? Is it some kind of Serbian radical? Did we make a mistake in the geography? Let's talk about geography, find a place in the territory of the Serbian-occupied Austrian province, in which no terrible crime has been committed against the Serb people. Is that what your president said? It's not. My first wife is from Osijek, my second half, my third half, my fourth... - I love you very much, and I apologize to you for all our crimes. What's that? For those individual ones? Not a word of terrible crimes against the Serbian people. You spit in the face of every Serbian Krajisnik, every honorable Serb in Serbia, every man who cares about the truth, every man who cares about peace and justice. You will tell someone about what is true and what is a lie! You spit on every Serbian child's grave, spit in the face of a mother who lost three sons on Petrovica Road when Ustasha bombed a column of Serb refugees. You're telling someone about the truth! You from the Democratic Party, you are the shame and shame of Serbia, the worst part of the Serbian people, those who are doing everything they need to do to destroy the state of Serbia, and nothing more. Your only job is to destroy the state of Serbia. There's nothing else in this country you're dealing with, just how you're going to tear it apart as soon as possible, how you're going to disrespect it as much as possible... (President: Time.) Ma, let me go with your time. Journalist one found himself, so he's giving you lectures as well as what needs to be done. You are a disgrace to Serbia, but Boris Tadic will pay a political price for this. Serbs will not destroy Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3938	According to the Rules of Procedure, Slobodan Gavrilovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3939	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, everything can be heard in this House, and everyone lays down the right to legitimacy, depending on or independent of the will of the citizens who gave them this right. But I remember very well some promises that were -- where Serbian countries are, there are Serbian radicals. Now we can see where most of these Serbian countries are, not only has no radicals, but there are no Serbs. I'm not going to bring it into a direct relationship like you, and I'm never going to say that you're the only culprits, and that you're accomplices to it, yes. Also, there is no and never a Democratic Party, nor will they belittle any victims, especially Serbian ones. But we think as people and as politicians who want to establish new relationships and new policy in former SFRY, where in the 1990s a certain policy (or, more precisely, certain policies) has contributed to millions of people being exiled, hundreds of thousands of people being left homeless, without their hearths, to tens of thousands of people losing their lives, to keep tens of thousands of people from being disabled in war. Among them are Serbs, and Croats, and Muslims, later Bosniaks, and Albanians. Do we now have to say that they have suffered only one suffering and that we can share our suffering ethnically? Suffering is human, suffering is universal, and suffering cannot be shared politically or ethnically and we do not agree to it and we will not agree to it. An apology by the president of Serbia's state in Croatia is an act that should show responsibility in Serbia for what Serbian individuals have done to others. That's why we'll never be ashamed of ourselves. Because you know, as we know, that on our behalf, or not on our behalf, certain individuals of Serbian nationality have committed crimes. They must answer for it, but at the same time the policy that is being built in these areas must look into the truth and face it. We can't solve the past by just putting a mask on certain things. It must be clear, and our policy is clear, regardless of your protests and your demagogue that you serve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3940	The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vujadinović, and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, Mr. Vukovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over replication. Mr. Vukovic prayed for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3941	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Dear gentlemen, I personally, and I trust all MPs on the left hand side, cannot get dirty or hurt what Mr. Vukic said. I'm talking to myself. I've been writing about injustices in society in Serbia for several years, without any compensation. What Mr. Vukic was saying can never hurt me or make me dirty, but I ask the chairman of parliament not to allow individuals from any other party to allow themselves to exceed that categorical imperative of their own and that, not knowing what people are about, allow themselves everything. Everything can be said in words, but there is, as Kant says, Mr. Vukic, a categorical ethical imperative – the starry sky above us, a categorical imperative within us. Remember that. You can't get me dirty. You know me and I know you, Mr. Wolfie. You know half the people here. So beware of such hot, dishonest and dirty words, Mr. Wolfie. Please beware of these words, for you have no right to do so. You fight with political means against appearances, against politics, against ideology, don't insult people. You mustn't insult people. I'm really warning you, because you have no right and, you know, you don't need to freak out, have a moral imperative, Mr. Wolf. Remember that, because we're all individuals. Finally, what was going on in these rooms? I call again the numbers as the only friend and ally, which are invulnerable. I repeat, gentlemen, we are now 64% of gross national income, gross social product compared to 1989, and in 2000 we were below 30%. Something happened in that country. What happened? At least let history say, let the time distance say, if you say it is not you, or Milosevic's authorities are not to blame. Just know that all the arguments you're saying can't hesitate and can't compromise what's standing, and that's the numbers. And it says that in 2007, Serbia was left alone, all gone. Like that husband who had ten wives, so all the women went away, got divorced with everyone, and they were always guilty. How are women always guilty, and this husband - Serbia, is not? Gentlemen, we already have the numbers. They'll still judge us. That's why you can't soil us verbally, the figures will judge Vukic, and Markovic Momira, and Cedi Petkovic and everyone. Remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3942	Here you go. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't plan on getting you dirty, because it's impossible to get you dirty. You get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, you get dirty, But I'm not worried either, I'm worried because you've soiled the state of Serbia, because you've dirtyed this Serbian tricolor, because you've dirtyed all the victims of the Ustasha regime since 1941, because you've dirtyed everything you've arrived. I don't know, you can curse my mother as much as you want, you can swear whatever you want, whatever you want, you can yell as much as you want... The DS emissaries are getting out of the O.R. You, Mr. Gavrilovich, are the greatest... I beg you, don't people, wait a minute, please don't worry. Look how many of you there are. You're all con men, liars, and mostly thieves. You learned only how to destroy and destroy Serbia and do nothing else, do nothing else in your life. You're talking about starry skies and categorical imperatives. I don't know what kind of starry sky the kids were killed by Robert Padezin on a plane in a wipe-out flight in action "Glass." I didn't see Boris Tadic mention the action, I didn't see him mention the crime in "Storm". You're talking about numbers. Is it 500,000 Serbs or 450,000 expelled Serbs? I didn't hear Boris Tadic talking about them. I don't know where you found 10,000 or 20,000 exiled Croats, not 500,000 expelled Croats. As far as I can see today, there are almost no Serbs in the area of Republika Srpska, or there are few, of those older ones, except in the eastern part, in Vukovar, Markusica and some other places. There isn't. Who did this? Are we from the Serbian Radical Party? No, that's what your friends did. You had representatives of the HDZ branch of the Democratic Party of Croats in Vojvodina on the list. The HDZ branch was on the DS list. Well, of course you apologize to the Croats, to support Tudjman's policy. That's what you've always done. There are two policies in Serbia: one policy, which sees in everything the culprit in the Serbian people, to whom it is all the fault of the Serbian people; it is your policy. Another policy is that it won't allow you to let you say at any time that it's Serbs, some radicals are guilty, or not just radicals, but along with some other radicals, etc. You say where Serbian countries are, there are Serbian radicals. And today, wherever there are Serbs, the most Serbian radicals, and you, people, don't like the people, what I do to you. Especially the people west of Drina and Danube. But here's what you're saying, and what I'm saying, let the people judge for themselves, let's see what Serbs west of Drina and Danube think, not counting these few you give 300,000 a month, or on an annual level. How much do they give Carl del Ponte for the Nobel Prize? Over 200,000. At Paracino level, only 200,000 for someone who's going to propose to Carla del Ponte for the Nobel Prize. Well, that's the only way you can hold it. As for our people, as for ordinary people, you have nothing to do. These people feel the best, and they know best who leads what policy and who leads what policy. One more thing. Don't yell ever. As much as it gets to you, you can never scare me. Whatever you're doing, you can never scare me, because I see what your president is like, your little mouse, the little weak man, who a reporter presses, and he cries. He's crying and crying. He's just looking at how he's gonna go against his country to save his ass in a little, pathetic interview. We have such a president today, unfortunately, but fortunately for Serbia, soon the presidential elections will be held. If you think that half a million of those who have felt it and a few million more who have seen the fate of the Krajisnik Serbs and who know what the Tudjman regime has done to them, and whose representatives you have supported with your apology, I must tell you, then you will see what the results of the election will be. Then shout as much as you like, threaten as much as you like, you can swear or you can't swear; whatever you throw, whatever you say, you can do whatever you want, you can attack me, which I wouldn't recommend to you by the way, but you're allowed to... Let them try, everyone has a right to try. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. ) Mr. Obradovic, as you know, our time is yet to come, and the time for those who killed Serbs and destroyed Serbia is passing away. I am only sorry at the end, Mr. Obradovic, that Ante Djapic, today's Ustasha chief, otherwise a friend of some representatives of the government, is happy with them by Saturday, unfortunately, won a very sharp political competition in Serbian President Boris Tadic. It will now be a dead race for the votes of those in Croatia who support the followers of Ante Pavelic and Franjo Tudjman, those who have blacked out Serbia, and in Serbia those who love freedom will win those who are with the Serb people, and against Ustasha and Ante Pavelic and Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3944	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Radivoje Milanovic, and then by Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3945	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I report for violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226 - Law of Members of Parliament to be informed. I would like to inform you that Mr. Sasa Paunovic, in the previous local elections, strongly defeated a radical party candidate and did his job honestly and responsibly, so that I advise radicals to take more care of their electoral body than to discredit one responsible and honest man. I would really ask Mr. Vukic when he comes here unsanitary in the O.R. not to insult us, because we are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs of the Republic Assembly, as he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3946	The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3947	I'd just like to warn those who are calling for objectivity and careful use of words that you're doing the best you can by personal example. Mr. Vujadinovicu, you have been discredited as an MP and as an economist in calling for objectivity when talking about any topic. You participated in the assembly work, in the budget debate, and then in the list of "Today", for which you write the column, you forgot that the MPs of the SRS said how much income remained outside of the budget, not by chance, not out of intricacy, but with intent. You forgot that we were talking here that commission is the way the government works, and everything we've been saying, and you wrote a column that you wrote about the prices of soup, cakes and food in a congregation restaurant. It's the objectivity and discussion of the budget of a man who quotes himself as a pay phone. I understand when public service does it, the one paid by television owners, so he tries to ignore what's being said here, I understand that many people don't care about comparing what the public hears on TV as a report or on the radio, anyway, and that there's a whole other opportunity to hear in this room, but I really ask you for a minimum of objectivity, because you know that it can be very cleverly lied and when the truth is partially told. It's true that the prices in the restaurant are like that, but that's not the essence of the budget debate, and that's what you called your column. Just one more sentence; I allow you to have the Kant above God, but Dostoyevsky says, "If there is no God, then everything is lawful." If the president of Serbia is not proud of being president, then anything is really possible in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3948	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Rajko Baralić according to the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Vujadinović according to the Rules of Procedure. That's the order for now. Replication at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3949	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, the Democratic Party is very proud that Croatian nationalities have also found their place on the Democratic Party list. We have opened the Democratic Party list for Hungarians, Roma and all people who love this country, including citizens of Serbia and Serbs. When you say - your President Tadic, it is true that Boris Tadic is the president of Serbia and that he is ours and your president, but when you constantly apostrophe "your president", please say... Article 104. Are you satisfied? Although I can advertise all the members of the Rules of Procedure. So when you say "your president", please tell the citizens of Serbia who the president of Serbia is for the SRS. Do Bill Clinton, who you gave Kosovo to, do Tony Blair, do Ram Manaj, do Agim Ceku, say once and for all that the citizens of Serbia know who your Serbian president is when you do not recognise Mr Boris Tadic as Serbian President. Indeed, do not ever abuse this pay phone to threaten anyone with a pay phone, because the DS knows that Serbia will not be managed by one who has a more pagan tongue, stronger muscles or better snipers, but by one who is elected by Serbian citizens in the elections, and these are people from the Democratic Party who exercise power at the moment. That's not what I'm telling you, that's what the citizens of Serbia tell you, that's what the special court told you. Serbia is not managed by one who has better snipers and stronger muscles, but by one who knows the language of arguments to oppose the language of accumulated haughtiness and primitives, which is what DS does best. I know you haven't recovered from defeat in the presidential election, new presidential elections are coming, and you need to prepare yourself for a new defeat. I'm very glad you're going to be in opposition for a long time because of this kind of behavior. This is here today's debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget. I know you're not happy to discuss the budget, but you want to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure and abuse a pay phone for a variety of other topics. I know you want to discuss everything else and accuse Mr. Vujadinovic of not being big enough, but tell me, please, who by your standards is a good enough Democrats. Do not call for the loss of the Serb people. The biggest casualties in the history of the Serbian people were recorded during the Serbian Radical Party's government. I am Kruševljanin, with us there is a song - a vest, antheria and apricots, which is what Serbians know about. At the time you were in power of blackness was a folk costume in Kruševec.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3950	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. I ask the MPs not to exaggerate in the heat of the parliamentary struggles. Easy, calm down, it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3951	Who once had a black banner in his house should not make fun of this way with those who thus express their pain for those who do not. Dear ladies and gentlemen, big words, big subject, I'm just asking you not to abuse one period, not to abuse anyone's suffering, not to call all the participants of the war criminals. I want to say exactly the following: The criminal in the war is the one who, by war, violates the provisions of the Geneva Convention and good customs of war. A soldier becomes a warrior when a superior opponent pulls a trigger and has no conscience for it, unfortunately. It's a warrior. Those who responded to their country’s call and joined their war units, eventually killing someone, which is of course terrible from the point of view of life, are not responsible for what they did, because they did not do so by expressing their own will. I speak here on behalf of several hundred and thousands of people who have recently, and a few million or ten million who in history in the name of their country and their people, in the name of some interest, historical, political, religious or each other, were participants in one of the wars. So, take care when you talk about these people that they already have one pain that's defined in the world as "vetnam syndrome" and don't salt the wound, because nobody's happy about being in a trench or shooting or because it's the result of his shooting someone's death. That's a lot of big questions and a lot of hard stuff. So don't say that. Anyone who committed a crime should answer. That thing's completely clean. It's just that no one can be a criminal until someone finds out that he is. So in history, there have been such or such war outcomes, and by definition, the winners have always written history. (President: Time, Rajko. Thank you, I'll be right there. Do not think that any such written history is not subject to the review of the national, historical and professional court. That's what's gonna happen now. I must say, it's unfortunate that a man is positioned in this way before the next presidential elections. I understand politically, it's politically legitimate, but I am obliged as a politician to recognize that behavior. I just want to tell you that out of the ten presidents of the states in our environment and in our country, including Momira, and Milo, and this Mr. Kostunica of yours and everyone else, I understand that it was done... (Chairman: Time, Mr. MP. You gave him and you enlisted him as president. (Chairman: Time, Rajko, please. ) I understand that huge energy and huge financial resources have been spent in Southeast Europe to provide minority support with a scale tab and these people become presidents, just don't make me not notice, because that's true. That's why I can be dissatisfied, but I don't have to be uninformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3952	He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3953	Ladies and gentlemen, I've reached out to the Rules of Procedure about a man whose last name I don't know, I don't mind, who answered, because he was perfectly decent and correct. Then Mr. "The Example" came out for the pay phone. I know why Mr. Example came out. He got a call from Mr. Tadic's cabinet. I see some of them recognized each other in that "model." So they called him from Mr. Tadic's office and said, "When we need someone to talk about someone with the worst and stupidest insults, then you, "the example," run out, now is the time for you. Then the "model" ran out and showed us the next thing. He said here, Mr. Chairman, you had to correct it, that we obstruct the budget debate. And we're not talking about the budget at all. It's about the bill of excise duty, Mr. Example, man of God. Well, you don't know what's on the agenda. (President: You've now explained it to him. I would now move on to more serious issues and more serious things. Here, several previous speakers said - don't tell us about President Tadic. I guess he's a holy cow, he can't be said anything about him, and he can say anything about anyone else in any way. He's about sinless. We, like, don't have members of national minorities, only you have them. I'm not sure who has more, whether the SRS or DS in this assembly meeting, but we also have a Slovak, and Roma, and Muslims, and Hungarians, Mr Otto Kishmarton, and Bulgarians. We have almost all the members of the national minorities that exist in our country. I don't know if you have any. We also have them in the context of the MPs' club. We even have an Arab in the parliamentary group. That's how we show our broadness. This shows how and how much we want to live with everyone not only in peace, but that all members of the national minorities are protected by all rights in accordance with international public law standards. However, there is something that has nothing to do with protecting members of national minorities; it has to do with how you will protect Serbs from Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party. How will you protect the Serbian people from Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party? I am most interested in who apologized to Boris Tadic, whether Serbs who lost theirs in Glina, Pakrac, Lipik, Okucani, Vukovar, Dalej, Erdut, Beli Manastir, Dardi, Knin, Gracac, Korenica. Who did he apologize to? I don't know who he could have apologized to. I don't see Serbs in their houses in Zagreb, Rijeka and Zadar. I see that some have settled in Serbian houses both in Knin and in Benkovec, and that we are not talking about China. I see they even settled in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Grahovo and the Tree, where there were 98% of Serbs. Did Boris Tadic apologize to them or who else? I understand that in every way and at all costs you will look to protect Boris Tadic, because it doesn't matter what he says, it is important that you do it in any way and fulfil your party obligations. I know many of you who disagree. I know many of you who know how much harm this will do them. As far as the election is concerned, they were alive and seen. In every election, the people will show theirs. I only hope this time you will not ask for support from all possible ones, as you then asked Bogoljub Karic, Vojislav Kostunica and many others, because you needed all this... Let's not talk about the Sulja Ugljanin, Rasim Ljajic, etc. So, I hope you'll say one time -- let's see how many of us there are for Boris Tadic, let's see how many of us there are for one of the SRS candidates, I hope, and I guess that'll be Tomislav Nikolic. So that would be a fair game. But we certainly agree to every kind of game. We can't wait for that game. You get one, you lose the other, you lose five, you lose one. The people will say theirs. (President: Thank you, Mr. Wolfie.) ) No thanks to me, thank the citizens of Serbia, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, for putting up with such bad authority, as Boris Tadic continues to suffer in addition to everything he does against the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you, People's MPs, too, for not buying the provocations. We can't let them provoke us in any way. Let them earn, let them insult from place, let them say what they want, and sometimes we exaggerate. All in all, we have to endure it. The citizens of Serbia, I am quite confident, will best tell Boris Tadic what they think of the apology of the Serbian people's greatest executioners, those who committed twice the greatest genocide, in two parts of the previous century, both in 1941 and 1991. Serbs are not a people who forget. We are a people who forgive, but such injustices and such crimes against their people Serbs will never forget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3954	There is a word from MP Mr Dragan Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. There's five other speakers in the Rules of Procedure. And you, according to the Rules of Procedure? I'd give you my word right now, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3955	Dear gentlemen, this is a replica regarding Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's a replica of a colleague named Jorgenka Tabakovic. I'm going to speak very briefly to help bring this debate back to the context of our current topic, which is the Excise Act, the amendment to the Excise Act. counterpart Tabakovic, in a column in the list "Today", the last two numbers and in the following numbers will be one satirical way from my corner, a humorous way, a well-intentioned way of talking about the work of the Serbian parliament, which I called "Hide Parliament" because I considered, given the procedures that are now in force, that there are conditions to talk as well as now, off topic. I mean, if I hurt an MP's group here, if I talked bad about someone, and about someone good, I apologize, but it was never intentional or will be. They were even mentioned in the good light of Lidija Vukicevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Micun, etc., and will be so in the future. As far as the budget is concerned, colleague, that's the most important thing. You've read, I think you've read "The Voice of the Public", and read tomorrow; I've told all the ministers -- while I'm writing as an economic analyst, I'll write critically from my corner. If it conflicts with the function of the MPs, then appropriate measures will be taken. So, you read "The Voice of the Public" tomorrow, and in the future, you'll see what it says about the budget. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3956	Thank you, Mr. Dragan. There is a word from the MP Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. If you want, and if you don't want, there's no problem. Here you go. Okay, the discussion sometimes changes that desire.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3957	Mr. Chairman, I appeal to Article 101(1). It may be a little late for my discussion, but I would like to comment on something Mr. Vukic said, and about this already famous Chukojevac and the Royal Municipality. Mr. Vucicou, the SRS is big enough, the biggest party, it should be said, in this country, that it can honestly, honestly and honestly admit defeat where it loses. So you were in the King's campaign, and the entire top of the SRS, and he was president of New Serbia Velimir Ilic's campaign and we beat you 5-1 in the second round. Your municipal board is therefore torn apart and your candidate Mr. Cevrovic, our former colleague here, seems to have been disfellowshipped from the party. Therefore, you did not attend, and if you attended the meeting where NS President Velimir Ilic spoke in Chukojevac, then we did not notice you. If you were at that meeting, we're glad you came to listen to what Mr. Velimir Ilic promised. And let me tell you why we won the King. The Royals are no less Serbs than any other part of our homeland, but people say – we will no longer listen to the stories of Ogulin and Virovitica, HHI is a century, we have no water to drink, we have no asphalt, we want to have it first. That's why we won the King. We didn't insult any members of the SRS or candidates, we just talked about what we think we should do. Over 50% of the pre-election promises have been fulfilled for over a year and a half, this can be checked. So that can be checked, I invite you to go through those villages together. And it is true, it is not Velimir Ilic who financed from his pocket, nor New Serbia, but it is from state money, according to the municipal budget, according to the state budget; that is why the people gave us trust and that we have the people's money and that we make those pre-election promises. When you win, as you have won in many municipalities in Vojvodina, you too there keep your pre-election promises. When we lose, we give our hand, congratulating, that's what the people decided. Finally, you say you lost in the King and congratulate New Serbia, let us work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3958	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is exactly what Mr. Markicevic said, we have certainly won the King and this is a fact that is inevitable. I'll say one more thing. You organised a referendum to bring down President Radoslav Jovic. After he resigned, we went to the polls and the result was 22,000 votes for Dr Milos Babic towards 5,500 for Mr. Cetrovic. There, that's the facts. Indeed, in the King we work in a good atmosphere, we often support all the actions we have together. I would also say that it's completely unknown, Mr. Wolfie, that there are raspberries made in Chukojevac, something like that is wrong. I certainly hope that one day in Chukojevac, raspberries may be produced, and the airport is built in the Boats. Therefore, it is extremely important for the King to be one cargo center in Serbia, to be available to the Kopalnik, and the spa and all that he has around the Kings. Therefore, we do not only win in the King, but also in all the villages around the Kings, and in the Tree, and in the Rudn, and in Gokchanica, and in Godacica, and in all the villages, and in the center of the kings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3960	Thank you, Mr. Savior. Srdjan Milivojevic, then Mr. Damjanović, then Mr. Paja Momchilov, then Mr. Vukic, all in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I would like to return the debate to today's frameworks of the agenda. Accises are filled with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I know that you do not know, you will learn, the time will come. So, I really want to invite all DS MPs to stick to the agenda theme and bring a very effective end to today's meeting with a debate on what the agenda topic is. At the same time, I have a duty to answer to Mr. Alexander Vukic, because you came out here and, as I understand it, you referred to me as "the specimen." You showed a clear hand to me and quoted my exposure. Mr. Vukic, there are a few nice lyrics that say, "Walkler, you walking on the land of Serbia, whoever you are, when you come to a field called Kosovo, you will see in all things a lot of bones of the dead and a part of the stone nature, me a cross sign of where I stand upright." That's the singing tower on Gazimestan. You will read a lot of Serbian names on the Gazimestan tower; there is the name Srdjan, and Bogdan, and Strahinj, and Ivan, and Milan Toplica and Milos Obilić. Once there is no place for you to park NATO tanks, once you know Serbia and Serbian names, then you will learn that my name is Srdjan Milivojevic, not an example. Mr. Vukic, I know you'd learn a lot easier to call myself Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, Agim Ceku, or any of those whose tanks are parked there, but I'm telling you it's very inappropriate that you're not able to learn a nice Serbian name -- Srdjan Milivojevic, but you refer to me here, and some people from the DS, called "an example". I'm a graduate farming engineer. Maybe it has something to do with evolution, as you said last time, maybe one of my ancestors bothers you. I am a descendant of Steve Dimitrijevic, the first rector of Prizren's seminary and dean of the Belgrade University of Bogology, but I am also a descendant of those who have put a flag on Kosovo's avenged Kosovo, and have received a medal because Kosovo has returned it to the Serbian state's cover. Once, Mr. Vukic, when you go before them and you tell them what you did during your rule with that Kosovo, tell them what you did with the members of the Serb people who live there during your rule, not my authorities. Maybe it's an example, since I'm a graduate farming engineer, it has a different meaning. Once during your rule and Slavko Curuvija was a "model." If that means... I'm telling you again, it's not the Serbian who has a better sniper, it's the one the Serbian citizens choose in the election, which is the DS people. You just told me, in five, six years, when I stop doing this job, I'm gonna break your spine sweetly. That's what you said from the scene, I'm not lying, Mr. Pinocchio, that's what you said here from the scene, in front of all the DS MPs. Mr. Vucicu, if it were luck, you should have stopped doing this job long ago, and even if you keep an election promise when Toma Nikolic lost as Serbia's president, when you said I would quit politics if she lost. So leave politics, make it easy for us and yourself, Mr. Wolfie, so get out if you need to beat me up. If that's the price Serbia needs to pay for you to be gone, I'm willing to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3962	That's good, Mr. Millyvoy. Thank you. Mr Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Wolfie, I didn't realize what it is now. I don't know if I have it in my office so I can give you my word. He gave up Mr. Damjanovic on behalf of Mr. Vukic. And Paja Momchilov even gave up. Here you go, Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've made this up, as usual. What did you say about my children, Mr. Milivoevich, I don't want to talk about it, but to break someone's spine, he must have a spine. You don't have a spine, Mr. Milivojevic, that's your problem, you don't have a spine. Yes, you're all in the brain, Mr. Milivojevic, and it's obvious to the entire nation, which is why everyone in Serbia calls you Mr. Example. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Milivoevich... You see, I've been able to learn, I've got such problems, not everyone can be as brilliant as you, ingenious. So, there's something I need to tell you about Kosovo and Metohija and the parking of NATO tanks. Is that you for NATO or us for NATO? Are you joining NATO or us? The Democratic Party supported the Kumanski Agreement and the arrival of NATO tanks on Kosovo and Metohija, and the Serbian Radical Party was against it. How are you not ashamed to lie from this pay phone? You've been lying a hundred times here. I don't know if you killed Mr. Milan Pantic or Mr. Gavrilovic, I know that this sniper was the most dangerous in your time. I know your policy is sniper policy. You've killed a lot of people, and yet the responsible ones don't know each other. As far as we're concerned, we're very happy and happy that the murder of Slavko Curuvija is coming to an end. You will see that soon the accused will be those mentioned by Vojislav Seselj, from Romic to Kurk and some others. That's right. There are still no indictees for the murder of Milan Pantic during the Democratic Party and yet there are no indictees for the murder of Mr Gavrilovic at a time full of DS authorities and conducting a sniper policy. You led sniper politics along with Ljubish Bhuha Chumet and other criminals, not the SRS. We never ran a sniper policy. That's what we're different about. We did not pave the streets and roads and take millions of euros in fees, as did the Democratic Party. That Serbian Radical Party has never worked. Finally, as for Kosovo and Metohija and the parked NATO tanks, did I understand Mr. Sutanovac and Mr. Tadic well that they want to join NATO? I didn't? So they lie to you when they say Sutanovac and Tadic want to join NATO. That's not true. They're not going to NATO. We don't want NATO in the SRS. We don't think we should go to NATO; I think we're giving money, we're paying a lot of money, and we're paying it to those who killed little Milica Rakic, little Sanja in Varvarin, who killed a lot of Serbs in Serbia just because they opposed your NATO, just because they wanted to keep the territory you offered on the plate, which Zoran Djindjic was talking about -- bomb even more, because that's when Milosevic will give in. You will tell someone about Kosovo and Metohija! You should cover yourself with ears, sit, shut up and never say the name of Kosovo and Metohija, because Kosovo and the Metohija is a sacred thing. As you sold Serbs from the Serbian province, because you apologize to the Ustashas, because you are leading the politics of Ante Djapic, you will be leading the policies of Hashim Thaci and the one you happen to meet at the airport in Skopje, Agim Ceku. Neither Tom Nikolic nor Voja Seselj met with Agim Ceku, but Boris Tadic, in the fog, so it was not known that they met to exchange experiences as a soldier and psychologist. What are you talking about, man? You don't even know what law is on the agenda. You have no idea what you're talking about. You came out here because they ordered you -- go and get as dirty as you can and don't say anything else. It's your only story. You can't do anything else. It's true, and I have to explain to you why it's impossible to dirty the radicals, because everyone is speaking with their actions. You can lie whatever you want, say whatever you want, someone's face is the only one who can get dirty and die. Boris Tadic has soiled his cheek, but we don't care, he has destroyed Serbia's face. We won't give it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3964	Did I understand that radicals will no longer be in the Rules of Procedure? No, I was wrong. In the future, you'll have to explain more in detail. Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. To speak of dignity we must, unfortunately. This is where one of the speakers said Hyde Park was the Assembly. Just to remind these top-notch fans of the opportunity for Hyde Park Corner to be a symbol of democracy and freedom of speech. The fact that he's also being used by certain psychiatric patients, that's true, it's still a secondary thing. When you talk about Hyde Park, we talk about freedom of speech. There's one thing, Mr. Milivojevic came out here and it's interesting how he's exposed. It's interesting because he got angry that he was referred to as "the parable", he called on his ancestors, and we didn't insult his ancestors with any word, we respect his ancestors, as well as everyone else. Why does he call on ancestors to help, I don't know. This is where he declared it to us. What Vukic said clearly, he was here on a mission and he fulfilled his task. He doesn't know what's being discussed, or what's the agenda point, he's talking about the budget, and we're talking about excises. He resents us obstructing the debate, and we are the only ones discussing all the points of the proposed set of laws that are before us. None of you on this left has come out to say "a" about a set of tax and customs laws. Don't deceive the people, have a little human dignity in you. Don't make a declaration here. You resented us - you have Croats. No, you're replacing thesis. The wolf told you - members of HDZ. There's a big difference between Croats and HDZ. You don't understand that, but that's your problem. So, those too strong words of yours, that you've bid on who you are, none of the farmers know about you, nor the engineers, so to speak, it's a prominent man who I don't know what he's done for the development of our agriculture. Don't call yourself that. We know you by whistle, by walk. You entered parliament on the first day after the whistle. I asked you what it was, and you said it was a useful device. I'm just wondering why you're not wearing a gold whistle. You should wear a gold whistle, not an ordinary whistle, because thanks to her, you can now declare to us. That's what's objective. So, to finish, not to be long, please, be principled, be careful what you say, tell the truth. That's what I'm asking you. Yes, you really are the exemplar of a provocator and an aggressive man. That's your job. When you come out here and when we hear you talk about legal proposals, to defend them, to speak with argument, we will say, "Committee Milivojevic, you are also the exemplar of the right Messenger." What are you angry about being told?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3966	Mrs. Nikolic-Vukajlović and then we return to the amendments, I suppose.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3967	Ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, what is now happening in parliament is obviously a reflection of our political situation and the general scene in Serbia. The least we care about is what happens to the budget, and the least we care about is what happens to this people. What I wanted to say to the Democratic Party and to Mr Srdjan Milivojevic, that is – I was born in Alexandrovac, I live in the Kingdom and I am president of the OO SRS in the King. Mr. Milivojevic, if I remember your Serbian name correctly, you have a Serbian name, but you should also act Serbian, it is unfortunate that you are not acting Serbianly, as a Serbian mother loves it and wants to hear it. As for your muscles and snipers, you said we had muscles and snipers. You're wrong. You're wrong. We don't. Here in parliament, when it comes to the SRS, there are a lot of women, highly educated women, mothers and housewives, in the right sense, with a full winter pantry already in June. So it's the last thing we do is use muscle and snipers, in the right sense of the words in which you thought of muscles and snipers. However, your muscles and your snipers are far more deadly than they are. Please, if you want to use muscles and snipers, use it once and line us up... Please, Millyvoy, I speak to you as a man of the people. I'm not a professional politician, I'm a man of the people. That's why I'm telling you right now, so these muscles of yours and those snipers of yours are very deadly. These snipers of yours kill the soul, kill our future, and your snipers kill our children, and they're not called snipers, which is blackest. People don't know it's snipers, people think it's something else, it's democracy. It's not. I'm glad we're going to have a chance to get out of this pay phone before some restrictive rules are passed, show the Serbian people what your arguments and muscles are, and what your snipers are, because you're very weakly using, you're very perfiduously implementing your policy. You didn't get anywhere, you just got together, you, the gentlemen of the democratic bloc, you gathered together and you got most of it, and you didn't get most of it, and there's a big difference. As for the city of Kralje, or the municipality of Kralje and the municipal board of the SRS, I can tell New Serbia – you've been in power so far and never, only you can go to the next local elections, I don't know where you are, you're almost gone. But what your minister did -- he brought the entire government into the royal municipality, you might think he would choose the president of the municipality, and for the president of the municipality he pulled out an anonymous man who was an anesthesiologist by the profession. We're all under anesthesia when it comes to the Royals. We really don't have a clue, and he used anesthesia, and it seems to me that he's been in the minds of the people. But what's next? (President: Unfortunately, Mrs. Nikolic, I must tell you that it is time. I'm glad to say that the time of this New Serbia in the King has passed, you've ended up with both the bridge and the investments you had from the Capital Investment Fund, and it's done everything from the Royal Municipality budget and you haven't given the Royal Municipality budget yet and you haven't been able to tell where you spent it yet. So this will last you until the next local elections, when the Serbian Radical Party will be the first in the King.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3968	I suggest we go back to the amendments. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Radic. There'll be a replica in five minutes, please, sit down. I ask the MPs to calm down and sit down and then we can talk, I don't see who's answering, you're all up now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3969	Gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. Since the government did not accept this amendment, I think it would be better to keep that old member 22, because he was much more acceptable and more effective in calculating excise duties and charging budgets through excise duties. Gentlemen, we understand why you didn't accept this amendment, so I'd like to explain a little bit and say the reasons for not accepting it. Since Montenegro has gone its own way, which is known to everyone, then it is now necessary to find another way to please certain businessmen or cigarette dealers. Now that we see that you've got a warrant from foreign mentors that you have to get rid of Canet, it's now logical that you have to change certain things and you have to adapt to the new boss, which most likely condition certain things to make it easier to function on the market. Gentlemen of the ruling set, I'm interested in what you've been waiting for so far, when you now mention all these great names of criminals, and we've given you all these names through three books: "Laufer reports," "Laufer hasn't forgotten me", "The Frog" etc. In order not to make any more mistakes like this, we are now giving you a well-intentioned advice. When you hear from Serbian radicals about crime in the government and in your parties, hurry up and arrest immediately, because the budget will certainly be fuller and richer, and not for small items. Because if you'd left immediately when you formed the government and we informed you about your dukes from the Meridian Bank, about the capital of your former ministers, when we informed you of what the finance minister had, how much money he had, what he was doing, how he was doing, if you'd gone straight into arrests, then the budget would have been fuller and it would have been easier for you to have the funds you collected and not spill into your private pockets. These excises that go into the budget would be easier to charge, wouldn't go, like Cane... But we're interested, and hopefully the SRS will soon find out who your new cigarette dealer is, so we'll let you know. We hope that you will not be in power, but that we will be able to solve these problems and that we will not allow you to become enormously rich in excise goods and turn money into private pockets instead of budgets. I don't think accepting this amendment... And if you had accepted it, you wouldn't have changed anything wrong with the excises; but I said, your problem is that the new cigarette dealer, the one who's in the shadows, is looking for certain privileges to be protected and you've done it very skillfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3970	Mr. Wolf, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an opportunity to see, except for the fact that the government doesn't know what we're talking about today, but that's something I'd say is pretty common, and apart from great boast, we can't find out anything else, it's good for people to hear that we have government proposals based on CEFTA's orders, which are directly against the interests of the state of Serbia and our citizens. At the moment CEFTA was signed, it is true, as some have noticed, for political and economic reasons it was a very bad agreement for Serbia. For political reasons, for the first time, Kosovo appears, even through Joachim Riker, as a special or separate territory from the Republic of Serbia. As for the economic consequences, there will be dramatic consequences for the Serbian tobacco industry. These proposals from the wing authorities will be given to the Robinian tobacco industry, the Sarajevo tobacco industry, and we have failed to protect what has represented a certain kind of comparative advantage in the region. No one cared about it, not thousands of employees, not thousands of people who have yet to receive salaries and their families to support it, but therefore cared about how to support the Kosovo and Metohija occupier and how to eventually get all the power in their "their territory", as well as how to get deeper, stronger and faster into our market, first of all, the ruby tobacco industry, which represents one of the strongest manufacturing centres in this part of Europe. So, what is quite certain, it would be good for the government not to think so much about investing our Western neighbours and how the stronger and more free they will open up the Serbian market, but to think about how to expand Serbian production and the Serbian industry to the market west of Drina and Danube. As far as I can tell, they're doing nothing about it and nothing's working. Todoric can do whatever he wants in Serbia, but in Croatia no one can buy either "Luru", or "Vindi", or anything else, as long as that Serb or that Serbian firm has money, because the Croatian state will not allow it. What we are doing, we are doing directly in the interest of the Croatian state, against the interest of the Serbian state, but what will you do when you have the president of the Republic who is dead and cold to say – we apologize to you for tens and hundreds of thousands of killed Serbs. I guess these Serbs are guilty, especially those in the fugitive columns that fled from the past, so Tadic now apologizes to the Croats for not running fast enough and not being machined enough and killing them enough. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good for you to accept this amendment by MP Gojko Radic of the Serbian Radical Party and it would be good for the majority MPs, who are here in small numbers, to finally understand what is on the agenda. I did not have time to say, with the greatest pleasure of all, we are awaiting these presidential elections and to see what has changed in Serbia and how the eyes of the citizens are open to everything you have told them about our friends from the European Union and America, who are now stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija; to see how their eyes are open from your better life and from all your frauds, political and other murders undiscovered and to who is, and how much Serbia has stolen. Serbia has been robbed of false democratic forces, but let Serbian citizens not worry, radicals will bring all this into order and we will have a good, stable and real state, which will know how to behave in the international field, always protecting Serbian national and economic interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3972	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Zoran Krasic, by amendment, then Mr. Veroljub Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3973	It is the second part of the third half of a project called the break-up of Serbia, according to the concept of democratic forces. I would ask all MPs to pay attention to the text of the reasons for this bill and they will see that in the Excise Act in the part of the excise duty on cigarettes, the tobacco processing of changes is carried out in accordance with the CEFTA Action Plan for the Implementation of the Agreement in the Part relating to the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, as published in Official Messenger No 29/2007. It is an action plan and a programme document, which has no binding power and has no law force. It is the definition of democratic forces in the Republic of Serbia to apply the CEFTA agreement, although it is not confirmed in the National Assembly. Since it is not confirmed in the National Assembly, it is a simple programme document that can internally obligate representatives of the political option, but has no binding power. Why do I say the third part of the second half? I must remind you that in 2003, when the tobacco industry in Serbia was sold, a great benefit was created for customers, because under these conditions they entered the privatisation of our tobacco industry. They were provided by the government of Zoran Zivkovic with excise policy protection, and now allegedly something changes in line with some agreement. Why? To open this market to others. Has there been an expansion of tobacco production in the Republic of Serbia since the privatisation of these two factories? It's not. What happened? It happened, here, I read a document, it was dated February 14, 2006; some agriculture minister gave the solution to approve the introduction into the production of a foreign variety of tobacco type NC55, etc. The seeds came in and, of course, didn't give birth. And when someone says we have domestic cigarette manufacturers, I tell you they're all foreign cigarette manufacturers. Why? Well, the gross tobacco is from imports, they don't treat our peasant and they're not here to develop our agriculture; no, they're here to finish their mob business. Just to remind these younger ones, the older ones know very well, when it comes to the production of cigarettes, say the monopoly, so the state has absolute control, the state does everything, and it decides everything. Just to remind you, yesterday Mr. Vlahovic said he could not, according to the origin of the goods, be discriminated against when it comes to excise policy. In Article 40a, 40b, we have a drastic example of this type of discrimination. Why? Because it suits them. So big expert thinking, which sometimes ends up on a coffee menu and a price list, has no cover in economic logic and science, but in pure interest. As long as it takes to fill the pockets of certain individuals; not all, there is a narrow selection, you know, ten-fifteen of them need to fold big money and that's the end of the story. But what all of us need to worry about is the fact that MPs, first of all from the Democratic Party, either enter or do not enter the Assembly, do not normally discuss, but when they go to their homeland, to their hometown, then use their political influence and on local televisions bring great economic thoughts about the points that are on the agenda. Last night, Mr. Bosko Ristic, whom no one has seen here for days, found fit to interpret certain things, and that he can't and can't, but can't answer how he could have been sponsoring his party with 80,000 dinars during the election campaign. Let's run a test and let the public of Serbia see what the Democratic Party is. Mr. Mrkonjic, I am using the right of Article 226 to get a notice and an explanation of how many people from the Democratic Party are voluntary contributions, and this is about money from abroad, they only gave their name and name, participated in the financing of the January 2007 election campaign. Just to remind you that I was extremely well-informed and that I know that even members of the Republican Election Commission from the Democratic Party were sponsors of their party, so they were startled when they saw their names on the list their party submitted in the framework of the election campaign funding report. Someone explain to me how Bosko Ristić could give 80,000 dinars that came from that money, where he got that money. Yesterday, he organised a poll among citizens, and it was chosen by those who receive 350,000 dinars per month, so they would say that hate speech is being promoted in the National Assembly. This Bosko Ristić is nowhere to be found, now preparing to clear up the situation in the Nis judiciary and bring back those pensioners, to finish some of the things left of his past, like the one where he escaped and refused to serve his army... Please, let's see who criticises the National Assembly, how the MP can criticise the National Assembly and how he can criticise the right to an opinion. Why don't you come out with your opinion here, but where there's no replica? They're powerful, they're strong, they're strong. The government is a subsidiary government and gets orders from abroad; whatever is written in that warrant from abroad, they translate into law. End of story. They got a warrant to influence population policy and you saw, when it comes to baby equipment; they got a job to deal with that auto-gas, and there's nothing to talk about, they don't make arguments. Where are your expert analyses, where are the projections? Do you have any analyticals, any evaluations? No, it doesn't. Why? It counts, shut up, until this thunderstorm passes, when the voting day comes, there will be 126 handles in the air and it's over; it's all democratic procedure, we've secured legitimacy, legality, and we can do whatever we want. Who's gonna pay? Citizens of Serbia. What I'm saying is social demagogy; it may be social demagogy, but no one has challenged it. No one found it appropriate to say - you're wrong, you're radical, when you say it. No, it's the thunder coming through. So come these Draculas, the accountants, the accountants, the experts, the columnists, God save me what happens. On the occasion of what, the pricer at the bar. I expect that the next column will provide a retrospective of all the pricers at the Ibari Master's since man has a mania to run the price list. It looks like the Democratic Party's mania, because they had a Kovacevic here who was collecting for a petition to improve the quality of the cake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3974	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Since the time for radicals is up, Mr. Veroljub won't. Thank him. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Milisic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3975	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. The amendment reads, "Article 23 is deleted." This article refers to Article 40a of the Excise Act. Since the article is too long, I will not quote it, those MPs who have read the material will know what it is. For the sake of the viewers, I'm going to say that it's about equalising the payment of excise duties on cigarettes from imports and cigarettes produced in the country. The figures are not important, it is important that they are uniform between 2008 and 2012. I believe that the solution so far has been more appropriate, both to the economic situation and to protect domestic tobacco processing producers. What is interesting is that the government has also submitted an amendment to the same article of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Excises only one day later than the proposal submitted to the MPs, and the question is whether and after so long you could not agree and submit a proposal without subsequent amendments. I ask you what has affected or who has affected you to change your mind, so that a day later you can submit an amendment to your proposal. In the light of the bill's proposal, as well as in an explanation where you do not accept my amendment, you are referring to the CEFTA Agreement and the CEFTA Action Plan for the Implementation of the CEFTA Agreement in the part relating to the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, and was adopted by the Government, which provides for excise duties on cigarettes by 2012. I remind Serbian citizens that the Single Agreement on Free Trade in Southeast Europe, so-called The CEFTA Agreement, signed under the auspices of the Stability Pact of Southeast Europe. The government, however, initialled the agreement on 9 November 2006, and the signing ceremony was on 19 December 2006. Meanwhile, an Action Plan for the implementation of the agreement was also adopted on 23 March 2007. The application of the CEFTA Agreement implies a level playing field for all participants in the domestic and regional market. This balances the rights and obligations of all economic operators whose products are represented on the market of the Republic of Serbia. It also implies equating excise duties on cigarettes produced in the country and imported from CEFTA producers, and these countries are the following: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania and Montenegro. At the time of the adoption of the existing legal framework governing the area of excise and manufacturing and tobacco transport, you say you are seeking to achieve several objectives, which are: 1. creating assumptions for the successful privatisation of the domestic tobacco industry (you have already done so); 2. creating conditions that the positive impact of privatisation is extended to all participants in the production and transport chain of the tobacco industry (this goal is not certain that it has been achieved, nor will it be); 3. setting up such a system of taxation of tobacco products that provides stable tax revenue, as well as gradual harmonisation with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU legislation. I think this third goal is most important to you and that you're trying to carry it out, but it's not going with your hand. That was, in short, a reminder of the free trade agreement. The Serbian Radical Party was against his signing. That is why our MPs have submitted so many amendments to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, because the amendments provided for in this proposal for the Law are in line with that agreement, as well as with the regulations of the World Trade Organisation and the EU. I believe that the solution so far is more appropriate and the economic situation and the protection of domestic tobacco processing producers, and that is why the SRS will vote against the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3976	Thank you, Miss Milisic. Mr. Veroljub Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask a question to Members who support this government, MPs of the ruling majority – I will not leave a minister, I have left some other questions for him for later, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues – why do you allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia to humiliate the National Assembly and you as Members of the People? Here's the thing. We have here before us a law on amendments and additions relating in one part to the harmonisation of the applicable legal rules because the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed the CEFTA agreement. Here we now have a political question: who allowed Vojislav Kostunica, as Prime Minister, to sign some kind of agreement where Kosovo and Metohija are as a special state and is a signator of the agreement? Did Vojislav Kostunica finally give up Kosovo and Metohija in public, not in words, or did he do it for a coalition with the Democratic Party? I ask you a question, since you already vote for such amendments and amendments to the law – has the Serbian Parliament ever verified or agreed to this agreement? It never is. The government is asking us to honor what the government has signed, and no one has asked the Serbian Parliament and the MPs. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you set the agenda, when you press buttons without thinking. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs who support this government when you adopt such legal proposals in the voting day. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen, when you vote against the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. You humiliate yourself and allow yourself to be humiliated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's your problem, though. What are the consequences? We have consequences that are political, which are that Kosovo and Metohija signed the CEFTA agreement as a separate state and that we have verified by joining the CEFTA agreement in a certain way the existence of Kosovo and Metohija as a special state. We also have those other consequences, which are economical, and this applies to domestic producers and tobacco processors. We had a tobacco processing law that was more or less the same government proposed, although in the previous meeting, so it is under the law that anyone wants to deal with tobacco processing and participates in the transport of tobacco processing must purchase a certain amount of tobacco from domestic producers, our agricultural producers, our farmers. So, he's already made one commitment, whoever wants to deal with tobacco processing, to encourage domestic production, and that part of the revenue he makes must be left here. Now we have a situation that all those you called in the privatisation of the domestic tobacco industry, which refers to the tobacco industry Vranje, the tobacco industry Nis, where your mouth was full of praise that these companies were successfully privatized, as they were sold for good money... It's no problem to sell for a good money to a cigarette factory. And that's the same ex-minister from the previous government, Bozidar Djelic, Boza Derikoz. Now we have a situation where you put those same ones you brought in, the ones you took the money from, into an extremely unfavourable position. What's essentially changing? It is thought that an old member of the 40a of the Excise Act made the difference between domestic tobacco processors, cigarette manufacturers, and foreign ones. Both had to bring money to the Republic of Serbia's budget, with domestic producers less per unit of product, for reasons of protecting the domestic processing industry. We now have a situation that by 1 January 2008, there will be some difference, which has been significantly reduced and since 1 January 2008, no difference between domestic cigarette manufacturers and foreign ones. If we look at how this whole law is conceived, we see that it's simply a certain financial-industry lobby, whether it's a regional type, whether it's European, whether it's global, affecting the policy of this government. When it comes to juice producers, we have come to the conclusion that this lobby is extremely strong, that it even defies in a certain way both the UN and the World Health Organization and that it is left to the governments of the countries to deal with protection and domestic production, and domestic markets and citizens, especially since consumption of such drinks is not good for the health situation, it also requires certain costs that the state has to pay for health care and facial treatment. So it's on one side. Who was making that pressure? Apart from the monopolies, they've been putting pressure on Colinska and Fructal. Then we got to the next part of the coffee. Excise down from 40 dinars to 30. There, the minister was a little rude to the citizens of Serbia, personally offended them because of that gas used to drive motor vehicles. Just laugh, Minister. I'll take the next amendment. We'll discuss everything you said yesterday to prove to you today that you lied to Serbian citizens yesterday. We have come to the conclusion that "Colinska", "Grand Coffee", National Office, Minister of Government Dragan Gilas, his best man, etc. Someone said, I think current MP Aleksandar Vlahovic said once, as a minister -- enough with the burazer privatisation that was going on in Serbia, and then it started not to be a burazer privatisation, which was never, but a godfather's privatisation. So, everything you've done so far, you've done to harm or domestic economy and industry or domestic individual primary producers, and all in favor of some others who have nothing to do with Serbia or are possibly connected to the Serbian underworld and those snipers that were here to say a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3978	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 23 of the amendment the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. The amendment reads - Article 24 is deleted. In light of the amendments I have submitted, it says that the legal solution so far has been far more appropriate to the economic situation and to protect domestic tobacco producers than is now proposed. In order to come up with a clean situation and to explain what this is all about, and previous colleagues have spoken about other CEFTA members; it is now clear in Article 24 that the obligation received from CEFTA contracts is fulfilled and that manufacturers and importers of cigarettes from abroad and domestic producers are now settled with excise duties and there is no difference in the percentage of the payment of the excise duty of domestic and foreign producers. I'd just like to take a little look at the practice of distribution and how the centralized system is from a license to a cigarette trade and tobacco processing to a distribution. The minister would have to know what time it is for anyone who wants to deal with cigarette trade and tobacco processing. First he has to pay his permission to get a solution, so he can deal. Then he has to go to the tobacco agency to pay a fee every year on the same basis as he got in his license to do the job. Then, when the cigarette distribution starts... Let me remind you, in 2000, you said you would decentralised everything, that the market would open, that there would be a free market. In practice, when commercialists come to sell, the tobacco processing facility offers cigarettes that are much better sold on the market, provided that the debtor who buys at that house of cigarettes has to pick up cigarettes that are not at all desirable and are not wanted on the market. Simply, with that condition you condition the one who sells that even the margin he needs to earn and that which remains as a profit, he remains only in those cigarettes that you have brought him or offered him, or the commercialist who represents a direct trade. I absolutely agree with Krasic, who said – monopoly is a small word for tobacco processing and tobacco. I call on all MPs to vote for my amendment in the voting day, because if the amendment is not accepted, just to remind you, domestic producers will no longer exist. With this equalized excise duty, domestic production is killing, and already in some way licenses and all other contracts, such as CEFTA contract, destroyed domestic tobacco production, which you, ministers, would have to know best.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3980	Mr. Veroljub Arsic, then Mr. Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's take a look at what essentially happened in all these discussions with this law, that is, amendments and additions to the Excise Act. First, we already had this in the debate in principle, the minister promised Serbian citizens cheaper housing by reducing the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. It is true, however, that state interventions in the tax on the transfer of absolute rights will be lower by that 2.5%. However, the tax is entrusted with the income of local self-government, so that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not feel that tax relief, and neither will the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as already in one of the following members is said to pay the excise duty, and so far it has been released, on fuel for the propulsion of construction machinery and cargo ships. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, you will not pay 2.5% of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, but when you buy an apartment, you will pay the excise on the fuel used by construction machines. When there were some discussions about the introduction of excise duties on liquid oil gas, the minister comes out and says, "You know what, it would be their turn to pay for the excise because they also use roads. We can already see that excise duty is being introduced for fuel used by cargo ships. What routes do ships use, Mr. Minister? I guess it's water, but there's no Veli. What's to invest in? Rain? Furthermore, the minister says it will be better because citizens who drink coffee will pay 10 dinars less excise. Just one more thing to ask you, Mr. Minister – except for the ships, were they also about construction machines, is this about those construction machines that build roads and bridges? They don't waste roads and bridges, I guess. So it's all about everything. So, Mr. Minister, it seems that the policy of this government is not to work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because all the tax revenues you've increased, whether they're called excise or tax, fiscal giving is, mostly, at the expense of citizens. Who have you freed, Mr. Minister? Here, I'll tell you who you freed. You freed Stanko Subotic - Canet the Frog. They used his plane, flew around the white world. I don't know if the godfather's got, "Bird Product" has his own plane. So you've freed the excise luxury. Željko Mitrović, this is the TV that broadcasts all those rallys to you, "Pink". So you've released the luxury of excise duty, and you've burdened yourself with the fact that few products that citizens used to be as independent as they would be and that as much as you would do something for your families or at least give yourself a moment of better life. For who? You took them away to make more money on coffee, you took them away to make more money on juices, you took them away to make more money by flying a plane, or by cutting costs, etc. And then you say that this is the development budget, that this will attract foreign investment. I don't see how, because what little customs you have and what works doesn't protect enough domestic economy and industry. How are you going to attract foreign investors to make factories here when you don't care if they produce it in Germany, France, the Netherlands, any other country, to bring it here, it might even be cheaper for him, instead of investing here and creating such an ambience that he feels safe and protected as a producer and that he can handle all the other participants in the race for profit. That's the problem with this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3982	The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic. You've got exactly three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3983	Ladies and gentlemen, here are specific questions for the minister and the entire government. Please answer me, but very precisely, since here a distinguished colleague from the Democratic Party mentions that the number is the best friend; here, right for discussion: what is the external trade deficit in the trade of goods with Croatia, and what is it with Slovenia? Our ex-brothers got so worked up, worked so hard, even through the war, to get out of Yugoslavia. Now they're trying their best to get back to that market. I can freely tell the citizens of Serbia and the public that Serbia today is occupied by their capital. They bought our businesses, flooded our market with their goods. I invited you yesterday, when we talked about coffee, not to repeat myself, about liquid gas and everything, that if you can't keep the excise on import juices at least introduce a quota on goods coming from the environment, I specifically mean Croatia and Slovenia. It's my right and my freedom to buy goods. I don't buy their goods first because I don't think it's very good for that price that's being sold here. I'm going to mention a specific example, it's the Rovinj tobacco factory. The Rovinj tobacco factory will enter from 2008, the excise duty will be leveled with cigarettes produced in Serbia. I have to say, you're the one who cheated on foreign investors. To be clear, tobacco companies, such as "Philip Morris" and "Rotmans", did not buy factories in Croatia and the Muslim-Croatian Federation, have already bought in Serbia, because of the quality of tobacco, due to the very processing of tobacco, and because there is a tradition in Serbia of producing the most quality tobacco, which is more than ever known, which is what is the original type of tobacco. You are now introducing to our market, you wrote well in explanation, bad cigarettes, and cheap ones. Rovinj enters this market primarily with dumping and direct smuggling into Serbia's market, bringing down domestic cigarettes, which are more high-quality. You probably know that their light cigarettes are sprayed with sulfuric acid to get aromas and to kill the impact, allegedly, of nicotine, and it's getting a much healthier product. So, please, specific figures, foreign trade deficits, so let's see where we are with the trade. They were not interested in Serbia. They are now interested in buying as many businesses in Serbia as possible, to degrade the few producers in Serbia, to literally make a stampede on Serbia's economy. I'm not surprised, that's my colleague, the distinguished Mr. Krasic, said yesterday, you'll see their ads on TV HRT 92, B92, there's no difference, you'll see them. It is literally known how to enter our market, which is under the condition of these lobbyists, the importers of their goods who represent themselves to their great friends and are doing great harm to our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3984	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. We move on to Article 25, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government is proposing that the amendment not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is Mr. Kishmarton here? Yes, it is. Here you go. You have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3985	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. The amendment, of course, has not been accepted, as have the other amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. The amendment proposes amending and supplementing the Excise Act, and I suggest that Article 25 be deleted. This article is proposed by the Government to amend Article 40. The Excise Act. The government proposes to significantly increase excise duties on cigarettes in order to harmonise the excise policy with the regulations and standards of the European Union. The increase in the price of cigarettes, domestic and foreign, for every year until 2012 is from 33% to 43%, that is the government's proposal. However, in addition to increasing the price of cigarettes, i.e. the introduction of excise duty, the bigger problem is the increase in the price of liquid oil gas used mostly in passenger vehicles. It is also an unreasonable decision by the government, because liquid oil gas is greener and significantly cleaner fuel and should be encouraged to use as much as possible instead of motor gasoline. You know, instead of the government stimulating the use of liquid oil gas to drive passenger vehicles, it introduces more taxes on that fuel to take more money from citizens to finance a massive administration. So I would go back to my proposal, which is to delete Article 25. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, because I believe that the solution so far is more appropriate to the economic situation and to protect domestic producers and citizens. All these excise changes, and the liquid oil gas, because in the government's comment, there were also excises on liquid oil gas in neighbouring countries, and excises on cigarettes are introduced into the environment... The problem of this government, as well as of all governments of the "yellow" democracy, is that they compete in who will serve more the leading countries of the Union, who will apologize more and humble themselves in front of the neighbours and the countries of the European Union. From serving the Union, of course, our ministers benefit, as well as various mafias, and our citizens, the closer we get to the countries of the European Union and the more we meet the standards required of us, the harder and more difficult it is. Often, European Union standards required of Serbia are much more stringent than those applied in other countries that have already been admitted into the European Union. We Serbian radicals do not say that we should not co-operate with the European Union, but not at all costs and at the cost of Kosovo. Good relations should be developed with European countries and special, good relations with Russia. The leading countries of the European Union treat us, as well as our government, the president of our country, as a master to the servant. That's because the government and the president of the Republic allowed them to act. But Europe can't treat the entire people of Serbia badly. This people don't want to be anyone's servant. This is a proud people, and all they have to be ashamed of is this government. I used to say that every nation has the government it deserves. But I don't think that's true in this case, this people are much better than the government they've won. For the rest of what I want to say, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3986	Thank you, Mr. Ott. Mr. Zoran Krasic picked up the phone. Here you go. I ask the MPs who had lunch, from the Socialist Party, to calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3987	I will try to explain in the next ten minutes what is the tactics of the democratic government, the democratic bloc since 2001. I'll tell you exactly the date, which is January 25, 2001. At that time, Mr. Zarko Korac was in charge of those contacts with the tobacco mafia. He's not here, unfortunately. He's very directed at these things. These things are so well known to me, since I was doing some books, so I also compared traffic, from the phenomenon of addiction in 1993 to illegal traffic and five channels of smuggling that went through the territory of the former SFRY. Just to let you know, Mr. Minister, that this is the subject of a major dispute in New York, in front of a court, where the European Union's largest cigarette manufacturers are suing, because it is considered that the Western European Union or the European community, as you call it today, is damaged only by tax revenues in about ten years, and count England, Italy, there even to Germany, that space, for a few billion dollars. The dispute is still going on. A deal is on the way between Philip Morris and some European Union commissioners, and Milo Djukanovic is also collateral damage. Let me remind you, I've said that many times from this pay phone. His sister, as a lawyer, leaves every six months with a suitcase, carries some foreign exchanges, Bar - Naples, so that the prosecutor simply interrupts more to potentiate the issue of responsibility of Milo Djukanovic. I would also remind you that in the Supreme Court of Italy there was one issue - whether the immunity of the president of the Republic of Montenegro is valid abroad, and from the point of view of the availability of Milo Djukanovic to the authorities of the judiciary and bodies fighting organised crime in Italy. So this isn't the fruit of my imagination. These are the harsh facts about what's going on, what's going on, and how it's going to look in the future. Of course, the big cigarette manufacturers are powerful, they can hit anything, they can buy the government. They bought some of our ministers in 2002 and 2003. I'll just remind you of that wolf, Wolf or Wolf, as it was, Miniæ, who, by the order of Mladjan Dinkic, was here checking out who's smuggling it, how he's smuggling it, and then these other mob gangs arrested him, brought him in, allegedly no gun license, etc. It is all the fruit of democracy and the development of these democratic relations in the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, when an appropriate change in the Excise Act was made in 2003, some guarantee was given of what kind of excise policy would be for the next five years, there were protests in the National Assembly. However, there were fewer Serbian Radical Party MPs at the time. But don't lie down, in 2004, Mladjan Dinkic rebelled, because he wasn't seen in that cake, so he found it appropriate to refrain from changing these provisions. You know who jumped Young Dinkic? The opposition Democratic Party that sat in the National Assembly. Now these excise provisions on cigarettes and tobacco processing are changing, and there are two great pressures, that's what I have to say. It's this unconfirmed agreement. The difficult deal will come to confirmation at the National Assembly, you know. They have one special interpretation that can make it all binding, regardless of ratification. It's not an exception, it's already happened with us. It happened with this "Tomson" Vukcevic, who signed as a war crimes prosecutor, an agreement with some other prosecutors; it must be some international contract that should be subject to confirmation in the National Assembly. And some other ministers have signed international agreements contrary to the provisions of the law that regulates the conduct of international policy, so that those in the finance ministry have not invented anything, they are merely acting on a matrix that is present in the democratic bloc. The democratic bloc respects neither the Constitution nor the law. What do you get with this shift? Here, we'll just do it. Since several members are tied up, it is from members 40a to 40j related to the calculation and amount of excise duties in the case of cigarettes and tobacco processing, I will take any member, since the principle that was present at the ministry that proposed these changes is the same, there is no big difference. Let's say, if we take this 40g article, it's now said: "Cipe and cigarillos are paid excise in height, and that's: 1) in the period up to 31. 12. 2006. 30%", which means it passed, "2) from January 1st 2007 to December 31st, 2009 40%". What are they changing now? They now say, "in the period up to 31. 12. In 2009, 33%" means 7% less, in this year 7% less, and even in some years to come. They say it's less because of some policy, but since 2010, it'll be 40%. If they are in power and when that period comes, they will again ask for change, because again some cigarette maker will say – well, you know what, we are not protected on your market, you know under what conditions we bought the tobacco industry, do you know how much we gave you for these things. It's a regular money launderer, so you know, those investments, it's just a regular money launderer. All of these members are granted benefits under an unwarranted CEFTA agreement, where a ghetto is being created on what they say to the Western Balkans. That's what I've heard for the first time in years, there's never been an expression before, as the Presevo Valley did not exist. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia could be interested in hearing the following "hate speech", that is your data, Mr. Minister, says this -- the total external debt of the Republic of Serbia to creditors in March 2007 was $19.8 billion, of which the public sector's debt is $8.3 billion, and private sector $11.5 billion. So that's some starting position that this reconstructed DOS-Mali government is starting with. In March 2007, according to the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, a total of 20 companies, 19 through auction and one tender method, were sold in tenders and auctions, resulting in a total sales price of 16.01m euros. For sale, please pay attention to the citizens, another 1,075 companies. You've robbed Bostan, they'll kick you all out of work. It is said this: 1075 companies will be auctioned, 110 companies will be tendered and 58 companies through the restructuring programme. That's the information from 7 May 2007. How are our foreign exchange reserves moving? National Bank of Serbia's data -- total foreign exchange reserves in December 2006 were $12.64 billion, while on 31 March 2007, they were $12.48 billion. So, by applying the logic of the election of the National Assembly president and the stock exchange disturbances, we can say - negotiations on the new government directly affected the foreign reserve situation. I can read nice to you now and how things are with our export products. Now let's see what's most exported to us, what's the most imported. According to sections of the standard international trade classification in exports for January-March 2007, the highest share of iron and steel, colored metals, clothing, cereals and products, vegetables and fruit is about 39% of total exports. What's the most imported? Oil and oil derivatives, perfectly normal, road vehicles, natural gas, industrial machines for general use, both iron and steel. This is about 33% of total imports. If you want to watch how it goes with our foreign trade deficit, which can be a good indicator of the inflow, then we can say this – the basic characteristic of our foreign trade exchange is a high deficit, which in 2006 was 6.7 billion dollars, which is 12.8% higher than in 2005; the growth of that deficit continued in 2007 and for the first three months is two billion dollars. Who's to blame? Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. They negotiated so much and negotiated that they eventually had to accept even what they were not asked to do, to agree and prove they were on their way to the EU. Only they are on their way to the EU, all our indicators of the results of the DOS-Mali government are saying that we are sinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3988	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3989	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since my esteemed colleague Glisic is not here... And let me remind you, he almost became a victim of the tobacco mafia, that the public of Serbia knows. Clearly, for calling Mr. Canet. As for these amendments to the Excise Act, I would say something in general. First of all, I asked a specific question earlier, but let me repeat, for the goods of broad consumption, since counterpart Krasic provided very precise data in which Serbia participates in exports, which primarily refers to "Sartid", on colored metals. The Serbian Radical Party will always protect domestic producers, whenever there is a legitimate economic interest, a state interest, following the programme with an adequate social programme, which has so far not been the case with the government represented by DS and so on. a democratic block. For this very reason, we have mentioned many things here, that the reduction of excise duties specifically on coffee, the elimination of excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages, the increase, or the introduction of excise duty on liquid petroleum gas, and the 1 January increase of the excise duty on liquid oil gas to 10 dinars does not contribute to a healthy climate in domestic industry. On the one hand, you will drastically empty the budget because you will not have any revenue from certain excise duties, and on the other hand you will burden the widest layer of the population, not the importers. In this case, I mentioned the normal and tobacco industry from Croatia, the Sarajevo of the Muslim-Bosnica Federation, meaning that this explanation of yours to protect the quality of tobacco with these anti-dumping measures primarily, and the price does not stand, because I said that cigarettes will enter very poor quality. The fact is that, Maltene, we will come into a very unenviable situation, that the sum of Croatian and Slovenian companies will be the owners of our companies. Normally, through all of this, their strategy is very clear: they are trying to have economically dependent Serbia. The other thing is that you often mocked, which is an agreement with Russia and Belarus about one percent of customs registration. This is what Croatia and Slovenia want to use to penetrate the Russian market and countries like Belarus, Ukraine. That's one of their primary goals, with our economy devoting, and I said the real reason. It is necessary to mention the goods of broad consumption and the rest, in which way we could protect ourselves – by introducing quotas and burdening the excise goods from countries from the environment, Croatia and Slovenia, since the CEFTA contract has not yet been ratified in our Parliament. For example, in Serbia, we have a problem with buying milk. You will enter any of our megamarkets, supermarkets and you will see in the offer of alpine milk, "milk from the banks", besides all our milkers who, however, are privatized, but have continued to work at full capacity. Therefore, the SRS generally considers the Excise Act to be bad. We hope that very soon we will have the opportunity to discuss his complete change, and by following the laws, the budget law for next year, which we will discuss very quickly, among other things, should be the accounting law, which is very complicated, and you are saying that you want to join the EU... I appeal once again that you are not protecting domestic production, that you do not create a negative image of Serbia in such a way that, in the end, you do not even protect those foreign companies that have bought domestic producers and that have continued their work uninterruptedly. I mentioned two cigarette manufacturers, not to make any more commercials, which continued to work in Serbia. I mentioned yesterday the producers of juice and water that continued to work and, at the very end of the line, contributed to the acceleration and production and development of the goods names of those products that they kept. So, once again, I urge you to think carefully about all the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party that are aimed at direct protection of our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3990	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3991	In order to avoid confusion, Article 26. refers to something with a different name, which is tobacco, and previous members refer to cigarillos etc. The common people who observe this transmission can say -- who's using it, that's a small number of people, what's going on, why you're getting involved in the debate about these things, because it's, by some, irrelevant because it's not so mass consumption. I have to get involved in this because there's one principle, and that principle is present with Article 23, which changes Article 40a. You see, by 31 December, cigarettes from imports are paid excise duty of 18.36 dinars per pack, and cigarettes produced in the country amounting to 5.44 dinars per pack. I now expect Aleksandar Vlahovic to run here with at least one man and threaten the government with such discriminatory treatment of excise products. You remember how hot and hot he was talking about juices when he said that there was no such thing on the globe, the juice is juice, whether it's from imports, whether it's domestic, it's supposed to be the same excise. Cigarettes, cigarillos, it's all the same, whether it's produced by us, whether it's from imports. Why is there discrimination? Who's profiting from this discrimination? Foreign investors, those who bought our factories, probably, but not much. In addition to buying a factory, they acquired a natural right to smuggle from here. These guys can't control them. How to control them when the funds provided for the purchase of these factories represent foreign direct investments, and they are filled with the mouth of foreign direct investments. How can a chicken that brings fruit be attacked? So the term "quisling" is more outdated. We in Serbia cannot use that term. The real name in Serbian - Dosmania. Here, for two or three days we convince the public by specific points, right from point to point. They don't like kids, they don't like people who drive cheap. Everything has to be taxed, it has to stop life, as their ideologist said, "Serbia has to leave the ashes," and the ash computers burned down the Federal Assembly building. What Batic said-- what are you talking about, three futhers only. If it's three futhers, where's 80 more pictures? Where is that help spent by the father of democracy as president of the Federal Assembly? He led the rebuilding of the Federal Assembly building. There's no money. Here for donations, for sponsorship everything is given, and territory, and sovereignty, and pride, and dignity, and perspective, and future, everything is given. Such is the Democratic Party's policy in a coalition with the NGO sector. Everything is financed from abroad to make a story about democratic standards, about the way to Europe. Now people who are bewitched by Europe, democratic standards, that's all they're talking about, they're not interested in anything else. It can go for a year, two days, but there's an imminent sobering coming. Why? Because it's an imminent collision with reality. A collision with reality can be very dangerous. In that collision with reality we get the data, here's the latest data -- 913 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Serbia, your data, their official data. I'll take it, so be it. It's better than nothing to have information. What else is significant for the change of that so-called. Excise policies? There's talk here about some kind of CEFTA agreement. What's that? The one who broke up the former SFRY came to the conclusion that Slovenians and Croats could compete there on one of their markets, although they can hardly do so, because the Slovenian Kranj sausage cannot go to Western Europe, because it has a high percentage of moisture, among other things. Those ISO standards, quality standards, etc., they invented this to close the EEE market, not for standardisation and for some quality. No, but you don't have an ISO certificate, your product can't go to my market. Wait, but it fits. To standardize, so we'll see if he comes, if he doesn't come. And so we don't have any major fractures... Because you see for yourself what they offer us from the EU - a European perspective. They say you have to do everything blackest in Serbia, and we offer you a European perspective. Now I get the impression that those DS have caught that democratic perspective. How'd you catch her? Show that democratic perspective. Here, Carla del Ponte told you yesterday - a young man has to, and then you go with Ollie Reno, an "Oli paprika" to sign something. It's funny. Comedian is your policy. Your policy is not seen by the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, your policy only sees the euro. Whether there is a euro -- it can, there is no euro -- almost, the end of the story. Just to remind you of something, you were then, then you were assisted by RTS, the public service, and B 92, there was that Schumarac, which paints a mustache here. Then we warned him, when the Law on the Construction of Objects was passed, the new, epochal, the best, and then on a specific case we told him - stop building on the Dedinj, on the slope towards the Lischi stream. The Faculty of Forests has written a study on how dangerous it is for the city of Belgrade's ecology. Go through now, and tell me who owns those buildings and those fairies. So, make a list, where Tadic is, where he is, where he is, make a list and let the public know. Why has legalization not succeeded anywhere or been difficult with some giving, and with this "come to me" Act on building buildings those who have buildings; the best way is to invest that building, and get three, em protected your capital, em earned it, and we learned it from the Democrats. We've learned a lot from you. We've learned that when we come to power of all your work, it doesn't matter if they've been passed by law or not passed by law, you're all going out. Why? That's what you did. Why should I change democratic standards? What else -- all the media under control, absolutely everyone. Second, we're gonna find a man who's gonna sell seconds. Your Gilas sells seconds, you go to RTS, they say, the price is that and that, and if you want cheaper, go to the red and you'll finish the job. He goes to the curly one and the job is done. I'll be in touch since I'm the bankruptcy manager of the DS. As you can see, there's no hate speech here, to understand these RTS buzzers and these other media, but this speech is fact, and in front of the speech, the auditorium on the left-hand side is silent. Remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3992	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3993	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, more than a month of Serbian Radical Party MPs present facts in this parliament and show and prove to the citizens of Serbia how harmful Serbia's executive power is for Serbia and for every citizen, or individual, so from that unfortunate Serbian president to the last minister in the government, almost without exception. Yesterday, I was talking about the harmfulness of one participant of the G 17 Plus political organisation and, in the case of their amendment, which they submitted to Article 6 of this proposal to amend the Excise Act, proved their inconsistencies and inconsistencies. Today, I'm just going to take a quick look at it from another aspect. Namely, MP Zivadinovic of the G 17 Plus Parliamentary Group submitted an amendment to Article 6. Of course, the same member and the same form were submitted by the amendment and the Serbian Radical Party asking for the introduction of excise duties on liquid oil gas. In his presentation, Mr. Zivadinovic said in the end, and I will quote you two last sentences: "Because this is the minimum revenue for Serbia's budget, I am ahead of G 17 plus and I have proposed an amendment for these excise duties to be abolished. I expect all MPs who take care of the interests of citizens who voted for them in the voting day to support this amendment and that we will continue to be without excise duty on liquid oil gas." After two days, the same MP withdrew that amendment. I must remind you that this was not his personal intention and desire, that he, as he says here himself, submitted an amendment to the G17 Plus parliamentary group, which means that the top of the party knew about this and, of course, approved such an amendment. What's interesting here is that the amendment was submitted after the adoption of the draft budget at the government itself. On Thursday, June 14, the government adopted the draft budget at its session, and only after that, on Friday afternoon, the draft budget arrived in the Assembly and we as MPs received the proposal and only then could we submit amendments. So, representatives of G 17 plus sit in government, vote in favour of the draft budget and then submit amendments to the same proposal. Knowing Mr Dinkic, knowing the character of this political organisation, I say this is about the trade of a minister with the rest of the government, or the prime minister. Now I also want to point out to you the harmfulness of this government, and I'm going to quote just a part of the budget explanation that was adopted a few days ago. The explanation on page 81 -- the macro-economic framework for the implementation of fiscal policy, reads: "The budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 is based on the achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results in 2006 and in the last part of 2007, on the planned movement of economic activity and planned fiscal policy for 2007. Furthermore, on the next page, the promoter said, "In view of the preliminary data of the Republic Statistics Institute, the real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2007 is estimated at around 7% compared to the first quarter of 2006. "The same side goes on to say: "Assessing the real growth of gross social product in 2007 is 5.9%". Please, for the first four months, real growth was 7%, and the estimated level of the year will be 5.9%. That means, for the remaining eight months, when we have a government, we're going to have a decline in this gross social product or we're going to have much less growth than we had in a period without the government. In fact, in the first four months of this year and during several months of the previous year, we were without government; she admitted herself, she was technical and could not make any important decisions, nor affect economic movements and life in Serbia. Therefore, the government itself acknowledges here that it is harmful to the Republic of Serbia and as such we did not need, of course, not in this form and composition. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, and Article 27 refers to Article 40ð of the basic Act on Excises. This member of the 40dj discusses how retail prices are published and their changes in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and the obligation to publish them by those involved in the traffic of tobacco processing. Under the current law, this obligation was in the tobacco department. In fact, under the current law, it was the tobacco agency, and according to the tobacco law, the tobacco agency was abolished, shut down, and the Office for Tobacco was established in the Ministry of Finance. This proposed member has two segments. It's the first one, technically, that part of this bill is in line with the tobacco law. According to the tobacco law, the agency no longer exists, there is a Ministry of Finance administration, and it is logical that these powers that the agency had now passed to the Authority's jurisdiction. The second part, the second segment of this article, is the essential part in which it is said that the obligation to publish retail prices and their changes are no longer a tobacco administration, but must be done by producers, or importers. According to this proposal, the manufacturer, i.e. the importer, has to report a change in retail price to the tobacco administration, and then, after obtaining consent from the Administration, that he himself publishes the change in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I repeat, so far it has been the obligation of the tobacco administration and my amendment is going in that direction, to remain the obligation of the tobacco management and not to be transferred to producers, or importers. Why do I say that? I'm saying it's because this is written here that changes the character of the tobacco law. There are a lot of lawyers here, I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think we can change some views of the tobacco law through the Excise Act. In Article 67. The 2005 tobacco law states: "The manufacturer, i.e. the importer of tobacco products, is obliged to set retail prices for these products before placing on the market of tobacco products and to register with the Authority. The person referred to in Article 1 shall be obliged to register any change in the retail price of tobacco products before they are placed on the market. "This obligation is defined by the tobacco law. In the Excise Act, the Proposer shall enter into this Article a new position which reads: "Manufacturers, or importers of tobacco processing, shall be obliged to indicate in the application of retail prices referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, i.e. in the instrument of determination, or in the change of retail prices referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article the day from which those retail prices are applied. "This attitude is completely excessive, because all of this is beautifully defined by the tobacco law. Furthermore, in Article 68. The tobacco law states: "Registration solutions to registers", here refers to registers of manufacturers, importers, processors, etc., "to be conducted in accordance with this law, namely retail prices under Article 67(1) of this Act, are published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The next position: "The publication of a solution and publication of retail prices from the 1st member's position in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" is addressed by the management. "So, the tobacco law defines that it's the responsibility of the tobacco administration and you can't now by the Excise Act to transfer that jurisdiction to someone else. Please, this should be brought into line with the tobacco law, and I think the promoter can still react by leaving only this technical part of this proposal and this Article 27, and this essential part, which transfers jurisdiction to importers and processors, to get out of this article, so that this would be quite correct. But do whatever you want, there's a knife and a cake in your hands, but keep an eye out, the cake's getting smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3994	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is against imposing excise duties on liquid oil gas. This article, in fact, regulates only compliance with previous members, i.e. amendments and additions to this law. These are criminal provisions of the law, with a pretty high range of penalties. The fine of 5,000 to 500,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a natural person - an entrepreneur if he does not report to the Tax Administration, the text is added - to the headquarters, the place where he carries out the sale of liquid oil gas to the end-user of motor vehicles. First, I don't understand why this provision. It's completely excessive in law, and whoever's a little bit of an understanding of our fiscal or tax system knows that if he's not a taxpayer based on excise taxes, he is. So, he's already been reported to the tax authority for the work he's doing and there's been a report of a place where he's doing the work. What's with the fear and the paranoia that someone's trying to trick you? Come on, this previous, that is, these points that previously stood in that law refer to the fact that if it fails to pay the excise duty within the prescribed time limit, the State can apply, and if someone is late with the application, or with the payment of excise duties within the given time limit; if it fails to submit the excise duty, let's understand that; if it does not report the start of the exercise of activity to the competent tax authority, and I understand that, but I now understand this part that is added "or not to report to the Tax Administration - the central place where it sells liquid oil gas to the ultimate consumer for motor vehicles". Those who are already engaged in this activity have been reported to the Tax Administration, because VAT bonds, and for those who will open it, is whether they are dealing with the sale of cigarettes, the sale of coffee or any other product loaded with excise duty, not listed here in the law, but are solely insisting that those who sell liquid oil gas intended for motor vehicles must especially report their place of activity. Furthermore, it is said in point 4 of that member who is changing: "if, when changing the rate and amount of excise duty, the list of excise products in stock or if they do not calculate an increased, reduced or abolished excise duty in new prices". I understand that criminal provisions are applied to that, too. Further: "if he did not provide the competent tax authority with proof that the funds had been transferred to the buyer"; this is now a little questionable, it was done before, when those tax statements were made and when they were being completed and when it was intended for another sale, etc. This is also applied when calculating VAT, for excise duties is completely excessive, because excise duties pay the first, means either the importer or the manufacturer, and has no right to transfer to someone else. "If retail prices of tobacco processing are not reported to the Administration, as well as if they are not pointed out in or on the retail facility in a small way so that they are clearly visible" – this is a completely excessive position and is already regulated by the general laws and regulations. Let me tell you, the first thing a market inspection does when it enters any retail facility, whether it deals with selling goods of broad consumption, whether selling tobacco and tobacco processing, is to make sure that prices are well highlighted. I'll have to say, Mr. Minister, you'll probably tell someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that there are even the greatest abuses by market inspection, that they even knowingly knock prices off the shelves to punish the sellers and that the penalties imposed by the dragons are at the time. I would take the opportunity to ask one question – is it the ministry's order that any market inspector or any inspector working for the state administration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must fill in a number of minutes and punish any seller, processor or manufacturer? If someone's doing some work and doesn't break the law, let's just grab a little something, if it's not there, we'll make it up and make it up, and punish those people. When it comes to these criminal measures of yours and the penalties that you are applying, you cannot give up on old practices and stop setting a sign of equality between those who do not report taxes and those who do not report taxes in good time. I agree that there is a criminal responsibility for one who doesn't report taxes, but you can't treat them as well as punish them in administrative proceedings. You also place a sign of equality when it comes to a person who is untimely paying taxes and a person who does not pay taxes at all, but the Tax Administration makes him pay taxes in the process. It's the same punishment for the untimely paying of taxes and for the one who had no intention at all. The one who didn't pay his taxes in time, he did it for the pain, he didn't have enough money, and I don't see why he would be punished in that misdemeanor procedure against him. Split up citizens who want to carry out their obligations to the state from those who don't want to do it at all. Do not punish dragons who have difficulty fulfilling their obligations to the state, for the state often does not meet its obligations to them in time. I'm just going to give you one such example. This came from your ministry, then Minister Mladjan Dinkic. We had one law called the Family Law with children, so there were certain amounts of income for the first, second and third children, and later for each and the next, and then it disrupted that spending side of the budget, which is not true at all. Instead of getting the money right away, then when they need it most, a proposal has been made to amend and supplement that law and it is divided into wars, five, six, ten, I don't remember, so that they receive the help until the child goes to school, and not once and for all, when they need it most; they will receive 1,000 dinars a month instead of 60, 90 or 120, when they need it most, with an explanation that parents can't keep the money, have it and can't raise their children. That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia was involved in. Change access and according to tax bonds, do not burden the laws with extra members because the general laws have already regulated this, there is no need for parallel legislation. In any case, you have already committed a criminal case, which was brought in 2005, but only a month or two later, completely annulled and introduced a completely parallel criminal law, so now we have a situation where we have laws under the Criminal Code that are for one purpose, contrary to special laws, which should not be entered into criminal matter at all. Stop this nonsense, there's no need for this member, it's already regulated by other general laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3996	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3997	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the messages we received from the government these days from all these proposals, and budgets and sets of accompanying laws, are not good, they do not promise what Serbia needs most today: even economic development, jobs for all citizens and social justice for people who need it. Instead of giving you priorities in policymaking, which in some ways best paints the budget, economic growth, employment, which will provide for a better life in Serbia, you again have reasons for certain changes in the law to comply with EU regulations and standards, of which citizens have only immediate damage, and perhaps in twenty years it is something good. But I'm saying, in 20 years, maybe. Why don't you say we'll probably never join the EU? Do you follow EU leaders' statements in recent days, perhaps months? Why don't you tell the truth to the citizens, but under the cover of approaching the European Union and talking about the European Union, and we know what conditions we live in, we're just opening a market for foreign companies? The consequences are, of course, less work for all of our citizens who, after all, lose their jobs. This policy of excise and tax policies does not solve problems, but only promotes the growth of the foreign trade deficit. It is amazing that one country stimulates the economic growth of other countries and a better life for citizens of other countries. That's what you do in Serbia today. Today, when the state takes certain loans or provides guarantees for certain loans, and financial institutions that lend, under the grain, I would say, and sometimes publicly, conditioned to buy their products, to hire their producers. So they show us how they take care of their own interests and how they credit their production, and you show us how they don't care about the interests of our citizens and our economy. I can connect this with your numerous, I don't mean yours personally, Mr. Minister, but all of you from the democratic bloc, many courses, numerous seminars, Ohio, Marshall Center and the like, where they taught you maybe everything about security, about the economy, etc., but one thing they haven't, or have, taught you, is to take care of their interests, not the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But since you're all of your politics, DOS's, since 2000 you've been based on lies, delusions, I'm going to remind you of an interesting example for the citizens, too, before I talk about what's on the agenda today. Remember, according to the DOS government's promise, in 2001, all citizens were to buy a car, in 2002, to send all children abroad for education, to solve the housing issue in 2003, it went like a television commercial after the election. Today reality is something different, cruel. I just want to say that today people can't school their children in Serbia either, and we'll talk about cars and houses later, because they're also kind of a topic today. That's how you feel with these 100 euros per hectare promised in this campaign ahead of these parliamentary elections. Now we haven't seen them in the budget. Once again, at the end of the debate on the Excise Law, I want to remind the citizens of Serbia of what is changing this law, which shows that the first steps of the new government are not good, are not what was promised to the citizens of Serbia. First, and perhaps most importantly, if we exclude the issue of the amendments that you rejected, and it was about the abolition of VAT on baby equipment, clothes and shoes for babies and children up to 10 years old, there was an excise charge on auto-gas, something that wasn't, six dinars until the new year, and from the new year and the entire 10 dinars, which would raise the price of auto-gas to almost 50 dinars. At the same time, you lift the excise duty on kerosene and air-fuels, you say, for encouraging the development of aviation. The Serbian government, in my opinion, has one basic function. It must take more care of citizens who may not be able to take care of themselves. He shouldn't take care of those who can fly a plane. I guess those who have planes can take care of themselves, that's their job, but the Serbian government has to help those who can't handle these difficult times alone, take care of the rich, and give the poor through tax policy and excise policy. You've published this shyly in the media, we've all heard about tax cuts on computers from 18% to 8%, and that's what the media has been talking about, and this is not published once. It seems to me, if it hadn't been for the session, if it hadn't been for the transfer, the citizens wouldn't have known it, but they'd have seen it at the pump there when they poured that car-gas or liquid oil gas. The excise duty on import juices and non-alcoholic beverages is lifted. It may not matter now, no matter which one is bought, but it is important, because we care more about those juices that are produced in Serbia, where our citizens work, earning that line of income, is extremely important. We hear so much about the first apartment, buying and releasing taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, value added tax, but a very narrow circle of people will use these reliefs, because you in law have limited it by various things, squares, marital status, and then you say that both these two and so on. I think something else is much, much more important. This is just one stupid pre-election promise. Here is another thing that is important: not how young people, middle-aged people, pensioners who have not solved the housing issue, find those few thousand euros that you reduce with these amendments and additions to the law, but how to find several tens of thousands of euros to buy that apartment. You don't solve a problem here. This is okay, it doesn't matter now, but the situation in Serbia is extremely difficult, and in 2003, everyone should, by your promise, have a settled housing issue. That's a question for the government. This government needs to help, this other one is just a silly implementation of one pre-election promise. Why do new excises, why impose bigger, why do you need a budget like this? In an interview that he gave immediately after the formation of Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, when asked how the new government works and how the relationship is in it, he said – there are currently specific relations in the government, as each minister is trying to take a better position than the budget it is preparing, that is, to catch as many people's money as possible for its needs. If you compare the draft budget law established by Kostunica's technical government and the one established by the current Kostunica government, you understand what Dragan Sutanovac was talking about. There are large differences in distributions, and a few billion dinars, somewhere less, somewhere more. Everything is the same, obligations, rights, laws, needs, etc., only the name of the minister differs, and differences in billions. It deserves an explanation. Mladjan Dinkic had to get 29 of his billions, Velja Ilic had to get I don't know how many of her own. These are the basic reasons for a budget like this. It's obvious that this is where you do the flat-rate, non-serious work. We now hear some criticisms from the ruling majority after the adoption of the budget, but they should have brought it up and talked from this pay phone before the budget was adopted. It is impossible that both proposals are good, that both the draft budget and the one that has now been adopted has been praised. Another reason why you need new tax charges through excise duties is the enormous costs for some institutions, offices, agencies that do not bring Serbia's citizens anything good, which are parallel authorities to the ministries and serve to employ your staff, as seen in that budget review. I would like to remind the Office for Media Cooperation 73.8 million, EU Association Office 77 million, the Anti-Corruption Council of only 13 million. You would have suspended him, but you can't, so you give them as much as they pay, but 13.7 million dinars, you don't let them work. The citizen's protector is 25 million, a trustee of information 22.7 million dinars and another tens or hundreds of millions of dinars for various other para-state bodies. I forgot to say a moment ago, and Gilas got a little bigger toy than the one he had last time, consistent with the weight of coalition partners in the new government. Instead of the National Office, he received the Ministry of Finance of the DS, i.e. the Ministry without portfolios. From the National Investment Plan, just to mention, the Zajecar has funded projects of the type of renovation of the premises of state authorities. It is far from the investment plan that Serbia needs. It can be concluded that the behaviour of state authorities, state authorities is an extremely comfortable and inappropriate situation in the economy and among citizens. There's a lot of room here for savings and a different income and expenditure policy and a reduction in public spending, especially if we have in mind that our entire budget is full of consumption, not production. Since I haven't had the opportunity, because of the restrictions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and because of the merger of the principle debate on as many as six points, I only want to comment on the budget adopted, and I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna use these two minutes just for those purposes. So one thing about procedures and terms -- this year will remain remembered for when the Assembly discussed and voted on the budget, with you all possible, at the end of June. Given the very important fact that since 2001 we have not seen any final accounts, it is completely pointless that we are at all discussing and adopting budgets, without the continuity of any DOS government wanting to make an account for the citizens of Serbia. It's one thing for you to adopt here, but we don't have information about how you citizens spend money. Another interesting topic, I don't think anyone has analyzed it in more detail. In short, your mouth is full of decentralisation, but only until the budget is on the agenda. You of the DS have begun, for the time being, to question public opinion, to look for autonomous provinces across Serbia, through Bosko Ristic, and you will see, depending on the reaction and citizens and parties, whether or not to go more seriously with it, so you are looking for autonomous provinces, to allegedly make more money for certain parts of Serbia. On the other hand, you've determined the transfer funds for local self-government so much that they have for mere survival. Why didn't you just significantly increase, as a first step, these funds and you would close your mouth to all those who are for the parting of Serbia in this way. You want to dissipate it in an autonomous model, and we don't need new administrative centres, because that autonomous province that was mentioned is part of Serbia that I come from. We don't need a new administrative centre, we don't need a new administration, we need a fair and fair division of what Serbia currently has, which is what Serbia has today. That's, I'd say, just one game of yours. On the one hand, you share that budget, and here one of you complains, from the Democratic Party, that it is not a fair division. You see, settle it within the party, don't rip Serbia for it. The economic situation in Serbia is such that there is little money for everyone, especially those municipalities that are being punished because they are not in power the public who rule at the republican level. In such situations, the state is a stepmother, and even you are not subject to the criteria of the Transfer Allocation Act. Then you generously take off the tax rate that you gave to other levels of government. It's your transparent game. You're reducing funds to municipalities, and you're crying all over your mouth about it. I used my 15 minutes. Serbia doesn't write well with you. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry for the overstep.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3998	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We interrupt the morning part of the work. We will continue at 15.00 hours, subject to amendment to Article 30.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u3999	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to begin with just one notice: we'll be working, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and after 18 hours, according to that agenda item that's on the agenda at that point. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, colleague Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the government proposes that the amendment be rejected, because it is not in favour of the government, but is in favour of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. For the sake of the public, I am obliged to read this article: "The first annual harmonisation of the dinar amounts of excise duties in Articles 10 and 23 of Article 2 of this law, in accordance with this law, will be carried out in January 2008 with a price growth rate to a small extent in 2007. The reason I gave the amendment to delete Article 30 is the next. You can already see clearly, like everyone else who has read the law, but for the sake of citizens, we need to give more information, because citizens can't all members, attitudes, suggestions that they have next to them in the house or in front of television as they watch this transfer of the Assembly. Therefore, Article 30 refers to Article 10. The law, which says, "Dinarian is the excise from this law, is harmonised annually by the rate of rise in prices to a little in the calendar year preceding the year in which the coordination is carried out." Therefore, it is already clear and precise in this Article 10th time period in which the coordination of dinar excises is carried out. Therefore, Article 30 further calls for Article 23(2), which again states - in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009 in the amount of this and that... So in these two members to whom Article 30 is called, it is already clearly defined, Mr Minister, the time limit and this Article 30 is more a spelling error than it is in office. There's no need to bother with this law that's generally bad. I'll remind you in a later discussion why, through some details. There is no need for this spelling problem or this excess of a member who is written to stand, just to be written, in the proposal, because everything is given in the explanation of these two members to whom Article 30 is called. So the government says this law has to be passed by emergency procedure and gives an explanation of why the law is even being passed. So, I'm talking about Article 30, because you've been listening to the whole law all day. It's said, with adopted solutions... I have to do this again, because it's very important. This was read by my colleague and all the other colleagues, and we repeat it all the time to achieve a healthy consciousness and the intelligence of the minister and the government who suggested this, that it was a huge mistake. It means "... with adopted solutions under the CEFTA Action Plan for the Implementation of the Agreement in the Part relating to the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, which provide for the equalisation of excise duty on domestic and import cigarettes, thus ensuring respect for the principles of non-discrimination and equality on the market, thereby eliminating the adverse consequences of Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Imagine this damage, says Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why this bill is urgently adopted, taking into account the situation in the previous four months as far as the legislators of this law agree on the composition of the government. Enough time has already been lost, and now back-application is forging laws that are more harmful to citizens than useful. They are still calling for a hypocritical member who says that damage to citizens can be prevented by passing this law by emergency procedure. So, for the sake of Serbian citizens, what does the CEFTA agreement mean? We have heard here Mr Krasic and all other previous speakers from the SRS that the CEFTA agreement has not been ratified in the republican parliament, the date of its adoption, its purposes, etc. So it is an illegal agreement by eight countries, most of which are members of the former Yugoslav country. They reiterate that these are: Bulgaria, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Moldova, Romania, Serbia-Montenegro, with Romania and Bulgaria coming out of the agreement in fact by entering the European Union. Furthermore, the most important thing, as my predecessors have said, is recognition by these other UNMIK representatives for Kosovo and Metohija's territory. We know they are friends of Albanian separatists and terrorists, as soon as they recognise Kosovo's independence. But the surprise is, more specifically, a clear indication to the citizens of Serbia that Mr Parivodić has put on this signature, it seems, and thus gave me agreement on an independent Kosovo. In the CEFTA agreement, UNMIK officials also say something. They say he is represented by UNMIK, but in co-operation with the institutions of temporary Kosovo authorities. Thus, Kosovo joined the European Energy Community, participated in the expansion of the single European sky, etc. Prior to the CEFTA agreement, Kosovo had signed agreements with Macedonia and Albania, prompting protests by the authorities at the time; this year with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, which went rather unnoticed. How often it is forgotten that there are territories in the region, and not only the state, perhaps the best illustrates the fact that UNMIK's representative, when agreeing to extend and modernise the CEFTA Treaty, had to say that the desire to join the European Union is not something UNMIK shares with other signatories. So this is a clear thing, that's where UNMIK representatives say what they think about the CEFTA agreement and how they try to separate Kosovo from Serbia through this agreement, much earlier. In order for all of this to look what it looks like, I must also remind you of Article 49 of that Treaty, which says: "1 accession to this Agreement is possible only with the consent of all parties, 2) the conditions of accession should be laid down in the accession agreement concluded between all parties in this Agreement, the accession party, as well as the party which has already joined." So it is clear that independent Kosovo is being promoted here, that independent Kosovo is a priority both in trade and in the free movement of goods, which of course should not have been initialled by representatives of Serbian authorities, and it has been done. Here's what the Croats say. CEFTA enlargement proposed Croatia as an alternative to the EU's original idea of creating so-called Balkan Free Trade Zones. I'm saying this for the sake of the citizens, I'm not saying it for DS MPs, because they have better things to do. The minister won't listen to me. Please try that bell on whether it works, since these representatives sitting here, I don't know who they are or what they are. He says: "The Brussels plan has come under heavy criticism in Croatia because many have complained that it reminds the former Yugoslavia and that it will slow Croatia's path towards joining the EU, putting it with countries that have not moved so far into the accession process." Imagine, Croatia, which is the most in charge of the country in the region, is concerned about its way of joining the EU and its time period to join. To finally say, 30 billion euros... Thus, Mr Parivodic, who agrees with Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's statement, which he says - aims to make significant profits in excise revenues by 2012, as there should be an increase in exports to the tobacco industry, as well as to encourage farmers to grow larger quantities of tobacco and produce better tobacco. And what, Mr. Parivodic, if there is no increase in exports, and what if the market of Croatian producers floods, what do we do? Here is the call, here I can tell you, but also some bad provisions of this contract CEFTA, which may notice the absence of a TIR regime for international goods transport, and then there are no problems regarding visas, problems that drivers and exporters have when travelling abroad, and then there are no high costs, difficulties and problems that exporters have in obtaining financial funds from banks. So in this CEFTA agreement, no one has lifted our visas, no one has given us the privilege of transferring goods from one territory to another in a better way, no one has given us anything here. They just gave us their product, and they're looking for our market. Mr. Minister, I think it's very clear to you that this puts domestic producers in a bad position compared to foreign ones, more specifically importers, because it's clear that the domestic industry has been privatized and sold much earlier. Since 2003, four tobacco companies have invested about a billion euros in the Serbian tobacco industry, which is a clear information for all. They're guaranteed to have protection by 2009. They even have some free contract they made with Croatia much earlier. This protection is not achieved through these excise duties if we place them in the same level of excise duty as for importers. However, it is a major investment for foreign importers. I must also remind you of the technical obstacles presented in this CEFTA contract, which clearly states, Article 13 - technical obstacle: "The parties will take measures to remove barriers to trade", on technical barriers related to trade, and then point 3) of point (a) of point (a) "The parties undertake not to impose new unnecessary technical barriers to trade". Did Romanians lift our visas or introduce them after entering the EU, did Bulgarians lift visas or introduce them? So ask questions of equality between domestic producers and importers. In order not to spread this story, we Serbian radicals have always, of course, a proposal for a solution, not just a criticism of the proposed law. It explains here that a better solution so far, as my colleague Maria said, is more appropriate to the economic situation and to protect domestic tobacco producers. The current legal solution makes it clear that the excise duty on cigarettes is up to 30. 12. In 2007, it paid, on cigarettes from imports in one amount and on cigarettes produced in the country in the second amount, significantly less. Therefore, for cigarettes from imports 18.36 and for cigarettes produced in the country in the amount of 5.44 dinars per package. So, clear things up. Since there wasn't enough time for me to report when it came to imposing excise duty on gas citizens using motor vehicles, I'd say a few words now. We are witnesses everywhere in Belgrade, because here we live, in all local self-government, that every local self-government, especially where it is in the power of the DS, whales itself in a pre-election campaign that, to God, in this local self-government, will carry out the gasification. Then the streets are dug, then the streets are paved in front of an election campaign, the gasses aren't finished, so the streets are being dug again, etc. Respected Serbian citizens, the gas for households is not in this excise proposal. Why? Because you first need to introduce it, to pay for the 1,500-euro connection, to pay the company that is responsible for the introduction, is, for example, at the Savawedding firm Gemaks, to get to the president of the local self-government or the environment in which the gas is introduced, to give a certain amount of money to the firm that is the mediator between the contractor and the firm that concludes the contract. Well, then, when we all attach ourselves nicely to the gas, which we paid about 1,500 euros, the next year comes excise and to the gas that will be used in households. Now there's no gas here, there's gas, there's gas, but this gas is only for motor vehicles, so for the worst layer of the population, and for this layer that can already afford 1,500 euros for the connection – we'll keep them on the stand by to make as many connections as possible. So we're going after the excise on that gas and there's money in the budget for some other election campaigns, promises, etc. Another very important thing: the CEFTA agreement is recognised, more specifically initiated by the International Stability Pact. We are witnesses of the relationship that this pact had with us, we are witnesses of what the Croats have to do with us. Why did the Slovenians not enter the CEFTA agreement, why did some economically stronger countries not enter the agreement? Moldova entered, which was halved in 1991 in two parts, which live the poorest in Europe, the countries that recognised an independent Kosovo entered Albania. Give a country that is economically stronger than Serbia, do not let us co-operate with countries that are economically weaker than Serbia. These are things that are not a priority for Serbia. Mr. Minister, the honourable citizens, the MPs, the excise duties that are imposed on us to pay for them... However, I am a non-smoker, I believe Mr. Minister is a smoker, so domestic cigars are not a priority for ministers or ministers or the government where we unfortunately work, but I must tell you that priority must not be foreign investment, but ours, none other. That's what we're supposed to do. The solution from the existing law is much better, more cost-effective and more protected by domestic producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4001	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4002	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since this is the last amendment to this bill and that Serbian Radical Party MPs have been very constructively discussing amendments all morning, unlike the ruling majority MPs who usually do not have much in the hall and do not participate in the debate at all, I will try to be as brief as possible. This amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, requires the removal of Article 31. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which provides for the equalisation of excise duty on domestic and import cigarettes, which would allegedly ensure respect for the principles of non-discrimination and equality on the market. The Serbian Radical Party believes Article 31 should be deleted, as the solution so far has been more appropriate to the economic situation and protects domestic tobacco processing producers. As a brief comment to this amendment, I ask who in this country is in the interest of domestic cigarette manufacturers being in the same position as abroad? All I know is that Djindjic's government has done everything in Novi Sad, so in Kragujevac, etc. A world producer's cigarette factory will be built to destroy both DIN and DIV. I don't know who's in the best interest that domestic factories don't work, and even if they do that the bosses are strangers or domestic bosses, they're very close to them, and that our people are just common workers with minimum salaries. Every normal government will protect producers from its own country as much as it can, only the governments of this country, since 2000, favour imports in every way they can, in order to reach out to those who have helped them reach the authorities. The Serbian Radical Party was also voted by people who, in the fields of Bela Palanka, Pirota, the whole of Denišava and other parts of Serbia, are still hand-planting thousands of professions, picking up and lower tobacco to feed the family and educate children, as almost no factory works. Because of all these people and other citizens, we have an obligation here to represent the interests of domestic producers. The government's explanation of why this amendment is not accepted is that the government's conclusion adopts an Action Plan for the implementation of the CEFTA agreement, which provides for the equalisation of excise duty on domestic cigarettes and cigarettes from imports, which is to be applied from 1 January of the following year. Given that, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation's majority, there are hardly any more than 126 of you, I know that this amendment will go the way you want it to. I just want to ask if the CEFTA agreement is the one signed in the same rank by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and someone on behalf of the special state of Kosovo? Gentlemen, that is what we should be concerned about and what this assembly should discuss, which is the same Europe, with which you have been in line for years, even if, eventually, in 2020 and some years, plans to take us into the EU, plans to be without 15% of our territory, i.e. without Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4003	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since we have made these amendments and the additions proposed by the Government quite a mess anyway of the bad Act on Excises, I can see that there was no good will by the Government of Serbia to at least in some part fix the law; if this part that Vojislav Kostunica signed, or approved for the CEFTA agreement, indirectly recognise Kosovo and Metohija as a special state, and if you have programmeically wanted to push through this law, I say, I understand your insistence in rejecting the amendments, but I don't understand why you wouldn't try to fix this law. Already in Articles 41 and 43 of the basic law there is one part that is not accepted as a reality in the economy, which is a separation in criminal policy between legal persons and entrepreneurs. I'd like someone to come out for this pay phone and explain to me what the real, fundamental difference is between the entrepreneurs and the legal person, when it comes to their activity and the financial power that they have both? She's gone. An entrepreneur can register and perform any action that a legal person can and can. Financial power? She's not here either. So any entrepreneur can be weaker, equal or financially stronger than any other legal person. What, then, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia insist on particularly punishing entrepreneurs with special amounts compared to legal persons? When it comes to this criminal policy implemented by this government, except that the legal entities pay even more penalties, the responsible person in the legal person pays another penalty. There's no such thing as an entrepreneur, and it can't be. If you already have to pay a fine and a legal person and a responsible person from a legal person, at least equalize the sentence for legal persons and entrepreneurs, but not by raising penalties for entrepreneurs against legal persons, but by reducing criminal measures by law. I've told this speaker several times that you don't take care of those who pay taxes, and pay it late; you don't make a difference compared to those who tax evasion, don't pay it, or control it, whether the taxpayers, whether the tax police, whether or not members of the MUP, find out that he did such a thing. In this article relating to the harmonisation and indexation of excise duties there is also an excessive provision. In that Article 30, which is controversial, it is said: "The first annual harmonisation of the dinar amounts of excise duties laid down in Articles 10 and 23 of this law, in accordance with this law, will be carried out in January 2008... ". Let's take a look at Article 23. The bill of law and let's see what that article refers to. Article 23, paragraph 2, reads: "A excise duty is paid on cigarettes from imports and cigarettes produced in the country: 1) in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008 amounting to 8.70 dinars per pack of cigarettes". That's what this law says. You did not allow the law to live and apply, and on January 1st, the amount of excise duty to be paid on cigarettes will be changed. You claim to have a stable economy since you're in power, that the dinar is stable. However, when he responds to financial powers, he jumps, when it suits them, all to the detriment of citizens, importers and mainly exporters of goods. You cannot predict how much excise duty there will be for cigarettes on 1 January 2008. Mr. Minister, the sixth month of 2007 is slowly running out, we're already half a year old. The indexation on growth prices is a little bit already accounted for in this law. You just want more on January 1st 2008 to burden manufacturers, I mean those domestic ones, and the sides don't, anyway. There's a lot behind this Excise Act that's been left unannounced. The law, which is bad anyway, has gotten worse with these changes. This government does not work at all, Mr. Minister, in the interests of the Serbian citizens, but in the interest of certain financial lobbys, institutions, tycoons since 5 October, we mention and certainly cannot be proud of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4005	Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the debate is over, I would like to thank all those who participated and to say something about the criticisms that were addressed, regarding the views of the Ministry, or Government. Although there are many amendments here, twenty and something, they basically come down to about five or six key questions. These are: liquid oil gas, juices, cigarettes, coffee, kerosene and annual coordination; maltene, with these five, I've listed everything that's been said here. Listen, I've been thinking about what the problem is and why I don't agree on certain points, and in a way, I've been able to systematicize our differences in three basic items. Of those three, it's about some fundamental economic attitudes, so I'd like to start with that. The fundamental economic position is that it is a better market than a smaller market. So it's better to have a market of 100 million people than 50, and yet better than 50 than eight, better than eight than two. So CEFTA is an agreement to create a single market for a group of countries in an environment that is increasing multiplely compared to the market that we have. Of course, the creation of a single market has a feedback effect, on the one hand it gives producers much higher ability to pay, and on the other hand it exposes them to the competition of producers from those other markets that have joined. The fundamental economic position is that these circumstances affect the improvement of the efficiency of production and, at the very least, have a strong development incentive. In this context, the question of the CEFTA agreement for me is not a political, but an economic issue, and in all those amendments that have been given, with the issue of why CEFTA is not good, basically economically observed, it is actually a matter of attacking this fundamental position that it is a better market than less. Of course, it can turn into a political attitude in a way that we say -- yes, it's true that it's a better market than less, but we don't want to share it with that and that. If that's the case, I personally don't have the capacity to answer such questions. The second fundamental economic position concerns the problem of protecting domestic producers from foreign competition. Here is the idea that this protection should go far beyond customs protection and that besides customs, which has not yet come here on the agenda, a series of products should be further retired by excise duty, unlike a domestic product that does not have the excise duty. This attitude in economic terms is not accepted by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in this context we are talking about the problem of juices, i.e. excise juices on the side of juices, where in the exhibitions this is widely understood, and there have been talk of various waters, although they are not at all the subject of this story. Finally, the third thing where there is a difference, relating to the second group of amendments, actually refers to the government's right to have its current economic and fiscal policy and that in this context it can differ from someone who stands by it and suggests it. I'd like to mention the problem of liquid oil gas. I listened very carefully to the problems with which it is said that the poorest layers of the population will clash after the introduction of this excise. However, I have not heard any argument as to why someone driving the roads must participate in their construction, or maintenance, and someone else, who does the same, does not have to. That is why the government remains in this position and believes it has a full economic justification for becoming part of the government's economic and fiscal policy. The issue of kerosene, the concern of air carriers, tycoons, etc., I must tell you that, unlike other modes of transport, your airports at the same time and some type of gas stations and planes have a much greater opportunity not to depend on the policy of individual countries related to the introduction of excise duties. Even if we ignore a domestic air carrier, and other airports don't have excise duties, you can be sure that no one here is going to fill that kind of fuel. As for the annual alignment and what we just heard, it's actually about (just the opposite of the conclusion that it's drawn) that we have a lot of confidence in the current economic policy, and that's why the proposal, which is being made here, is that the harmonisation of excise duties is not done six months, but annually. Clearly, if you have confidence in stability, then you are sufficient and far longer to coordinate than if you were afraid of inflation. Finally, I would like to comment on a question that has been raised, related to the rate of growth of the social gross product that has been commented, 5.9% based on our estimates, while in the first quarter it was significantly higher. It's true that the rate of growth that is calculated is less than that that we have, but it's a matter of conservative approach, not failure, as it was tried to interpret. Whether it's a success or a failure, we can only talk about it at the end of the year. We think we have another reserve here, through a conservative approach, that will allow us to successfully maintain macroeconomic stability. I thank you very much, and I hope the same fine cooperation with these laws that follow now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4007	I thank Minister Cvetkovic. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treaty Procedure and Tax Administration (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milena Stanković, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Jadranko Vuković, Slavko Jerković, Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, Bozidar Koprivica and Petar Jojic. You have received the Government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the draft law in particular on Article 2 of the amendment by MP Milena Stankovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4008	There are MPs who have gone to Strasbourg, so I will try to explain this amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. At first I would just like to say, it is very nice to have a market of 100 million, but when you have access to that market, but from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of our interests, it is even better if this agreement is confirmed in the National Assembly. If such an agreement is not confirmed in the National Assembly, then it does not exist in the legal traffic of the Republic of Serbia. That's that big flaw that you, Minister, skipped to announce. I don't know what the problem is to adopt this agreement here, given that you have a stable majority. When the agreement is signed, you know, it only takes effect by confirming, in accordance with Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That act has not been done and this all has some character of illegality. What is this article 6 about? The government is demanding that Article 26 of the First Law be changed. In what way – by introducing another obligation for entrepreneurs and legal persons, and with regard to opening and beginning to carry out economic activity. Here's the thing. It's said like this, that's the opening position where the Tax Administration assigns to natural persons, entrepreneurs, legal persons and other business units of the FIB, and now you can't assign the FIB, and some cases are listed. I need to draw attention to the fact that this PIB has become a condition for being, survival, the existence of something called something that gets legal subjectivity to participate in traffic. If the FIB is conditioned in this manner as stated by the Government, then the status of the economic operator is at stake. The specific regulation regulated the issue and regulated all status issues of operators participating in transport. I think you're with this intervention... I do not dispute justification, immediately to be understood, that one who tries to avoid the obligations he has on the basis of taxes to the State, the Tax Administration is authorised, in accordance with this law, to take appropriate measures, including the conduct of appropriate criminal proceedings, etc. That's not a question at all. But I think you've exceeded the powers you have, because by one tax code, which is a public character, you've gone into matter that's a status issue of economic operators. Something similar to what you wrote in this article 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Procedure could possibly, under certain conditions, be in a law governing economic operators. There is no such provision, I must draw your attention, and this law that regulates the status of economic operators is the only regulation that defines whether there is something and under what conditions it can exist. If some special law introduces some additional restrictions, and it concerns the status of a person, then it's completely inappropriate and it came out here outside the framework that allows matter to be taxed and tax administration. Let me just say what it's all about. It cannot be granted to a PIB legal entity whose founder is a legal person who has reached it and unsettled obligations based on public income. If you're keeping that legal person from being the founder of another legal person because he didn't settle his tax obligations, then you're questioning the status of that new legal person. This law can't be regulated. You have the mechanisms by this law to collect all dues on the basis of a tax owed by a legal person; you use this mechanism, these are members of, I don't know, 40th to the end of the law. But you can't regulate the technical issue of issuing and determining a PIB number to get into something that's legal personality status. Or, as follows, he says: "Employees, legal entities and permanent business units of a non-resident legal person whose founders are at the same time the founders of legal entities and permanent business units of a non-resident legal person who have reached and unsettled obligations on the basis of public incomes. Exceptionally from Article 2(2), the Tax Administration will assign the FIB if the unsettled public income commitments are reached up to 100,000 dinars and if these obligations are settled within eight days of the date of submission of the request for the allocation of the FIB, that is to say, the irrevocable bank guarantee or the balance sheet avaliable by the commercial bank shall be granted within that period. "I don't know why you're introducing this second condition. Why are you now making a distinction between some who owe 100,000 and some who owe 102,000 dinars? Why are you making that difference? You can see from the very wording that this intervention within this article does not regulate the process of issuing a PIB, but enters the status issue of one legal person, which is probably a taxpayer, because all legal persons are taxpayers. I believe that you have gone beyond the frameworks that can be regulated by this regulation and, believe me, if we had a Constitutional Court, this would probably be assessed in the Constitutional Court if it were not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But you can see that today we cannot even exercise this fundamental control as we comply with our regulations, including the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You've gone into one matter that can't be regulated by the Tax System Act, the Tax Administration and the Tax Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4009	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4010	Article 19. The draft law is practically amended by Article 59 of the basic text of the Law. Now I'm gonna make a little relationship, see what it's all about. It is provisions relating to the assessment of the tax base. The methodology changes. He says: "The method of cross-evaluation of the tax base is used to determine the basis of the income tax of citizens. "Now a methodology is given that at the beginning of the year, it is at the end of the year and what counts as property, so it is said: immovableity, action and participation in a legal person, equipment for carrying out independent activity, motor vehicles, savings stakes, other property rights. The other property rights were defined, but you didn't need to define that. Finally, the difference to which the tax is paid is determined. It is not known how to take into account, for example, the market criteria for this member, because you know that there may be changes between January 1st and December 31st. It's one of the shortcomings, so you need some interpretation again. Otherwise, you did not even foresee this market criterion in this article as something to be taken into account. The purpose of this article should be to make possible undeclared income through comparison of the basics, with respect for all incomes, tax obligations. From this formulation of this article, I don't see you coming up with anything called undeclared income. Only in this sense does this member have a purpose. So, regardless of, if I may say so, the tax behaviour of the taxpayer during the year, at the end of the year, through this comparison, you come up with some data that there is one part of the income that is not taxed because the taxpayer did not report it or simply the tax administration showed some inactivity. So when that difference is determined, it's something that hasn't been reported, which is not taxed, and then there's room for applying some principle of justice, that according to material opportunities and economic conditions, one who has more, who has achieved more, and one who has tried, or simply the market so reacts, that at the end of the year has more income, should pay a certain tax. You've done it incorrectly again. Just to warn you of the situation when the law was changed in 2004, then Mladjan Dinkic was also making a methodology. After a year, he changed his methodology, changed his basics, changed everything. In what way? In that way, even those people who work in accounting didn't know how to carry out the bidding, so then "Contemporary Administration", or I don't know what it was like, this "Economic Review" of yours was making special forms, so Dinkic gave them special instructions, special regulations, so he did some work on it. Finally, after half a year, when the bonds received the solutions to be paid, it turned out that 10% was a tax liability from what the accountants assessed and determined according to these patterns and according to the methodology done. To remind you that in 2005, it seems to me in December, Dinkic also changed the basics and increased, or reduced the bases by counting that the largest number of people would be covered by this tax. Now we have a third variant, a third change, where a new methodology is given, some unknown, because this article really doesn't make sense unless there's an untaxed income as a result. That's why I said at the beginning, you don't take market criteria when you compare the value of the assets, i.e. establishing the basis of the first January of one year and 31 December of that same year. Again, you will have the need for some additional interpretations, and you will again be required to define what must be in the law by means of a rulebook, a manual or some question that you give to tax administrations, and again something will appear that we can say is not clear. I didn't want to go into detail, but look at the formulation of points 3, 4 and 5, and you'll see that there are even contradictions between attitudes in certain parts. The definitions you've applied are bad definitions, vague, but I'm not surprised; when it comes to tax regulations, there's a maximum sense of volunteerism, because, you'll see later, in these statutes of limitations, etc. People forget the tax administration procedure. The tax procedure is a public relationship, not a private relationship. The character of a public relationship stems from the rights and obligations of both the authorities and the taxpayers. We have a bad tax administration law and tax procedure, where the principle of public relations is not fully represented, and therefore the need for these regulations to be changed is constantly emerging, this law changes every year. As the budget goes, that's how this law changes. Here it is now used as an excuse for the fact that in the Law on the financing of local self-government, some of the tax authorities have also moved on to local tax authorities. I agree with that part. I don't agree with that law, but the law has been passed, we need to respect it, and they're probably in that part and they're justified to amend this regulation. But in many other parts, this regulation is unspeakable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4011	Thank you, colleague Krasic. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, colleague Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 34, which is related to the deadlines of limitations. With regard to limitation deadlines, the proponent points out the following arguments, and says: "If the taxpayer does not file a tax application, in accordance with the law, as well as in the case of tax evasion and parallel taxation, the right to determine the tax and secondary taxation of antiquities by five years from the date on which the obsolescence began to run. "Then it says: "The limitation of the right to determine taxes and parallel tax duties begins from the first day of the following year of the year in which the tax was to be determined, i.e. by the side tax. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that article 34 be deleted because it is impossible to set different limitation deadlines for the same request. In particular, the proposed member sets a different limitation period depending on whether the taxpayer submitted a tax application. If there was a obligation to file a tax application, and the obligor has failed to fulfil the obligation, he will bear responsibility for the failure. The tax administration is authorised to determine by official duty the tax, regardless of whether or not the tax application is filed, and it is impossible to set different limitation periods for the same claim. I hope you will support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4013	Thank you, colleague Vukovic. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few sentences about the amendment, allow me to comment on a few reasons why this law should be passed. In light of the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the government said, among other things, that the law was also passed because of the need to comply with the Law on Infringements, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 101/2005. It is true that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on Violations at the end of 2005. The law was due to be applied as of 1 January 2007, and those authorities provided for by the Law on Violations were to be formed. Among other things, a higher criminal court was to be established, according to the government in the context of the bill, under Article 91. The law on violations, conducts a misdemeanor in the second degree. However, I must inform Mr. Minister, since his services obviously did not inform him, that an internal letter from the former Justice Minister has suspended the application of the Law on Violences, so our judges today are actually applying the old Law on Violences, not this new one from 2005. I really don't understand how the minister didn't know about that information. Therefore, in our country there is no senior commercial court, there are no courts for violations, there are law enforcement authorities; and no new law of 2005 is applied, but the old law applies, so that this reason for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration does not stand. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, my predecessor, counterpart Jadranko Vukovic, essentially explained why this amendment was submitted. I just want to remind the legislator of this law that the Law on State Administration, at the beginning of the Law, is a formulated principle for the work of the state administration. One of these principles is also the principle of efficiency of the work of the State Administration Authority. The tax administration, which is due to implement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, is the authority of the administration within the Ministry of Finance. Those principles of state administration work, which were formulated in the State Administration Act, which was adopted in 2005, also refer to the Tax Administration. If you prescribe two deadlines for the limitation of tax claims, you actually destimulate the Tax Administration, as one of the authorities of the administration, to apply the regulations on an up-to-date basis. It is completely unclear to me why to set two deadlines for the limitation of the tax claim, depending on whether or not the taxpayer has filed a tax application. It's completely unnecessary, it only complicates a complex Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act anyway. As for the very length of three, or five years, such a deadline, rather long, actually acts negatively on the principle of efficiency of the work of the state administration. Those who are lawyers know that right there is one principle yet of Roman law "dies interpelate pro homine", so it is time to warn instead of man. If you have too long a deadline, and a period of three or five years is a long time (I will explain and why) to determine tax claims, you are in this way allowing the Tax Administration to be unsupervised, inefficient, not to deal with business that needs to be dealt with. Why am I saying that three, five years is a long time? Today to charge, i.e. to establish tax duties is not the same as 50 years ago, hundreds of years ago, etc. Today, the Tax Administration is fully computerised, today the process of charging and determining taxes is done by electronic means. I will remind Mr. Minister that in 2004, the government of the Republic of Serbia took the view that the state administration of the Republic of Serbia should join the so-called. European administrative space, which means full computing of the work of the state administration. I think it's a three or five-year term, given the conditions under which the IRS operates today, which is the use of the most modern computers, really long. That deadline needs to be shortened. What should also be abolished in this bill, which Mr. Vukovic explained a little bit, is that double deadline. I can't understand why there's a double deadline for the limitation of tax claims, depending on whether or not the tax returns are filed. It's completely unnecessary. It is necessary to shorten, not extend the deadline for the limitation of the tax claim, because setting shorter deadlines is, in fact, in order to raise the quality and urgency of the work of the Tax Administration. I am afraid that the Tax Administration, as well as other state administration bodies in the Republic of Serbia, will, under the mandate of this new government, turn into a haven for various party personnel, because, as we saw when we discussed the Budget Law, the staff plan for 2007 is projected to increase the number of employees in all administration bodies, as well as in the Tax Administration. It is harmful, it will only add to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially taxpayers, and I therefore propose that all amendments of the SRS MPs be adopted, and among other things the amendment submitted by my colleague Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4015	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4016	Ladies and gentlemen, by submitting amendments, MPs from the Serb Radical Party are trying to contribute and improve the bill as much as possible, but it is not so important for the promoter. They read who is the signator of the amendment and it is enough for them to propose not to accept it. I can back that up by the government's argument on my amendment to Article 35. In its explanation, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment of the statute of limitations, Article 114 and the new Article 114a to 114g, is proposed because of insufficiently precise provisions and numerous issues that have arisen in its practical application, which have not been regulated by the applicable provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The proposed provision referred to in Article 114d regulates the termination of the limitation period, which increases the effectiveness of the tax procedure. Why the efficiency of the tax procedure? What's with the principle of legal certainty? Why allow the tax authority to behave irresponsiblely in determining and cutting taxes, and there are so many mechanisms to make tax returns from the taxpayers in a timely period? For comparison, I will also read part of Article 114v: "The law of the Tax Administration to launch a tax infringement procedure of antiquity in three years from the date of the date of the statute of limitations. If the taxpayer does not submit a tax application, in accordance with the law, as well as in the case of tax avoidance, the right to launch a tax infringement procedure by five years from the date on which the obsolescence began to run. "The basis for submitting my amendment to Article 35, i.e. Article 114d, is that obsolescence is interrupted by any action taken by the Tax Administration against the taxpayer in order to determine and collect taxes from tax duties. After a break, obsolescence begins to run again, and the time that has passed before the break does not count in the law of a certain period of limitations. How long can the tax authority keep any citizen of this Serbia in suspense? With every tax authority's operation, he interrupts the limitation period. If we take into account the Law on Liabilities, if we take into account the Law on Infringements, if we take into account the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is a period of limitations, as the ordinary one... You have there in the Bond Relations Act, you have utility charges within a year, you have some subjective three-year term, you have an objective five, and the general limitation period is, gentlemen, 10 years. Why could the proposer not propose this in this bill when this absolute obsolescence occurs and when the general limitation of the initiation of the procedure by the tax administration authority is due to the collection of claims? Why did he leave out the tax authority? Only to create even greater legal uncertainty in this Serbia. We are aware of how many amendments and additions to certain laws have been made in the last seven years. We have created a forest of laws from one normative Corps, in which Serbian citizens do not know what their rights and obligations are. There are so many amendments and additions to the law that it is difficult for those who do so professionally, through the law, or the reference in certain institutions, lawyers, to manage in the woods of the laws that you have adopted over the past seven years through changes and additions. It is my opinion that if we go towards the regulation of this legal system, where there are many amendments and the addition of the law should be passed from every area of quality law that will be applicable to everyone. It is necessary to adopt this amendment in order to make Serbian citizens feel secure, to have some legal certainty and to force the tax authority to carry out its official obligation within a certain period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4017	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4018	The problem is very simple. If you have set absolute deadlines with the new text of article 114, then Article 114d is unnecessary. If you have applied a system of subjective and objective deadlines, then 114d is not a complete member. It's right to know what's standing still and what's breaking up. Not after every break can run a new deadline, then interrupt again, then a new deadline; then in 50 years you can charge some tax claim from the Chukun Chukundeda. There must be an objective deadline. That's why I'm telling you, you've tried to regulate something, you've had a general problem with calculating deadlines in this law, you've had problems with obsolescence. Much more is the problem expressed by the tax administration and officials, not so much because of taxpayers. If you want to take out the taxpayer, you can kill him with one solution – come, make sure he didn't report anything, close his shop for 15-20 days, dead, that no longer exists, you removed the competition very effectively, with tax measures. It's also the democratic party's manners. Let me remind you, in 2001, you used the IRS to charge the rent as a bond. And that's what happened with us. We conducted the case before the Supreme Court, before the Trade Court, all possible judges in the Trade Court and this court were shamed, and only at the Supreme Court was it resolved. Then the second-degree body, at the time - the Republic Public Revenue Administration, found that the first-degrees had made a catastrophic mistake. So I'm not surprised how the IRS regulations apply, I have to tell you, because I know how they go -- they go by force, they can confiscate you, they can do anything. The problem with this article is that there is no objective deadline and there is no limit. He, by the logic of things, can be assumed. However, the limitation deadlines in the tax procedure must be short. Why? Because it's a public relationship, because 99.9% of everything the IRS does is official. Only two acts can depend on the taxpayer: the first one, the submission of the application and the second one, the payment of the tax. Everything else is in the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration and there is a procedure for everything, who, when he goes, what he does, what kind of solution he makes, what legal means are, etc. In most cases, the tax procedure does not delay the execution. They charge right now. You have told this formulation of Article 114d about this – the tax administration and the Tax Administration can always take action to determine or collect taxes. By taking over that store, there's a new deadline. Which one? Probably three years or five years. When he comes two years and 11 months, he's taking over some shop again. The action may also be called to the party. It's a store that's been done to collect, determine taxes or check something, and you're still running three or five years. And how long? Is there a responsibility? If the tax claim goes out of date, is there any responsibility in the IRS? Just to remind you, there is now that electronics, if it's VAT, etc.; as you typed the account, so the Tax Administration gets information about the traffic and what traffic is. Is there some kind of responsibility if the tax claim gets out of date? Why did you define everything in an illegal way in article 114? I can't claim for the same tax claim that there are two different limitation periods, because it's a public relationship. Someone could have filed a false tax return, could have filed a wrong tax return. Why would he get a three - year limitation period, and the one who has failed has a five - year term? Then the question is, how are you going to determine when you were supposed to file a tax return? You think you solved the problem by saying that the deadline starts from the first day of the next calendar year. You haven't solved it, because it can present that it wasn't in January, but in December of the previous year, that it had already taken a year. In the case of such a sloppyly written regulation, you know that their application depends solely on volunteering. Who? One who needs to apply the regulation, because these rules give great authority to the tax administration and to the tax inspectors. They are given too much authority because, in the end, their will depends on how this will be interpreted. On specific examples, I can tell you that someone has been interpreting him for three years, some five years, someone interprets him like this, someone like that; someone's got a business review, an advisor, I don't know what his name is, what Dinkic is forcing -- to see how he's in the manual, instructions, parole, tables; that's how tax regulations apply. It is only in the second instance that the law is caught in the hands of the law and it is interpreted whether it is right or not, whether the appeal is established or not. In a first-degree procedure, he grabs himself to take as much as he can, and then you prove yourself right or wrong. There's no better situation in customs. Why is that? Because they're public relations. That's where the state comes in with the greatest attribute of force. There are other attributes of force, however, Tadic is destroying it, both the military and the police, and it comes down to an intolerably low level, but it is a concept and policy of the Democratic Party. I unmistakably know, when something is unsaid, it's the source of all the worst things that can happen. If you've had so much bad experience with how to calculate the ageing period and all the issues, the aspects that go into obsolescence, then you've had to solve this much more precisely. How? You could have taken any procedural law that regulates obsolescence and that you prescribed, but you only agreed on deadlines, shorter deadlines, you would have legally-technically solved this problem. But you don't want to. That's the problem. You really want this to blow up volunteerism. Now let me not tell you, because the coffee cook has become the director of the Agency of Income in Rakovica. Is that right? Yes, it's a coffee cook from the Democratic Party, a sister of some Radjuka, she's got some degree, she's got from Podgorica. It is, isn't it, Milickovic? It's the frames. I don't mind a coffee cook, I don't mind people who got some diplomas. How does that woman know what tax administration and tax procedures are? You might think, when such shots of the Democratic Party get an unspeakable regulation, it's a disaster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4019	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. There is a word from MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4020	It is an amendment to Article 35, in terms of erasing Article 114z, which my colleagues Krasic and Jerkovic spoke of earlier. Before I start to explain this amendment, and there's no point in explaining it, we've seen that all the amendments have been refused in advance, I'll say the following. I find it a little strange that the budget was done so perfectly in such a short time. You are here talking about the budget, and the set of financial laws too, right? The post office has little time so I can look back on the budget, because it has something to do with it, I would like to ask, purely for information, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and to say some of my views before I go into the analysis of this article, 114g, to which this amendment applies. You know how, it seems to me that this budget is more than one political project, than it is an economic project, as I would say, a household distribution of money collected by Serbian citizens in a year. So, I can't understand, I just asked that question, how does anyone know, so perfectly he made this budget, that no amendment could pass? Is the purpose and purpose of sitting Mr. Cvetkovic, the minister, here, for all this time, to help, to work something out, to shape something better, to hear the voice of the people through us MPs, or is it just to respect the form? So, he should come, to sit down, we need to talk and then he's a boring Serbian Radical Party, let's get it over with and say, is it over when, at six, at seven, etc. I can tell you, and I don't want to address Mr Cvetkovic directly, I want to speak to the gentlemen who made this budget, that this budget has no strategy in terms of our country's development and in terms of what it will mean to our people. I would at least beg you to change that ironic look on your face, Mr. Cvetkovic. I didn't want to come directly to you, but you should look someone in the eye. I think it's your obligation with respect to the MP, whether I'm Wesna or Gjurdja, it doesn't matter. I would ask you, however, to pay a little attention to someone who tells you about something, because all the time you were told by the MPs of the SRS about the amendments you had some of your own explanation that reads, you know how; when it comes to the amendment to VAT, when it comes to child clothes, etc., you gave some three of your options which is why it cannot be included, which is why simply that amendment cannot be accepted. You accept it in one way as an initiative, as you say, and do not accept it as an amendment. So what does that mean? It's a story for little kids. But we won't be long. The bottom line is this: so you've made the budget how it suits you, so it's a more political project, you've made a National Investment Plan that will always be a reserve for your future campaigns and for your future work. You've created 22 ministries, where each minister has his own specific capital that he will have and slowly bring down to local self-government, so that he can win power at the bar. That's exactly what you did. As for citizens and the development of the Serbian market itself, you have done absolutely nothing about it. Only, as I understand it and how I can understand what the essence is -- the cleaning of the Serbian market from Serbian products in terms of bringing them to this Serbian market, both in terms of producers and in terms of Serbian products. So now in these big trade chains, you know, we have very few of our Serbian products. For example, because I really hurt, I get into the Mercator, and there I hear, with speakers, what do you say - goat cheese, Slovenian brand? Don't we have goats? Don't we have goats, and where to ring, and can't we do that? So where's any brand for us? What did you do about Serbia's development, agriculture? What did you do about health care? What did you do about Natalie? Where's all this in this budget? There's nothing in this budget that's ever happened. So, you just have what's most important, that you've got a nice schedule for the ministries and that you've created this National Investment Plan that will serve you for a further political campaign in terms of survival in power. That's not right. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is a tax procedure, Article 114g says, "The tax administration cannot pay attention to antiquity if the taxpayer is not called upon." What does that mean? So everyone, absolutely all citizens, must fill your budget, even though it's out of date for one such claim by the tax authorities. If something is already out of date as a law, it must be obsolete and mandatory. Why is someone right... Someone comes to the counter and says, "if you'll excuse me, your deadline for such a thing has passed." What am I gonna say? My apologies, my failure, etc. Why did you let the tax authorities make such a failure, and the citizen can't make such a failure? Why does this apply to rights and not to obligations? What does that look like? So, at any cost, you have to fill that budget of yours, and you don't give any right to a citizen out of it. After all, what do all Serbian citizens have from that budget? What did you bring back to the citizens from the budget you made? You haven't returned anything to the citizens. You've only done one good political project, but I don't know how long it'll take. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4021	Thank you. The amendment is a colleague of Krasic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4022	As I recall, this provision so far has not existed in the tax regulations, and here is to let the public know what it is, he says: "The tax administration cannot pay attention to obsolescence if the taxpayer is not called upon." In the bonds, in the proceedings, the party's litigation takes care of the limitations of the claim, but before the court is a bilateral relationship. The tax administration is preceded by a procedure of public law and, if a claim is outdated, an official duty must be taken to resolve the suspension of the procedure. It's standard, it's taught in schools. And here you're telling us that it's possible to apply obsolescence, but the party has to call it. If she's ignorant, then there's going to be a charge for the obsolescence of the claim. I'm sorry, these dudes are probably gonna charge me with hate speech again, but it's a broken provision. The state can't go bad on citizens. We are now talking about the tax procedure and the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act; I am not entering the reasons why some claim is not charged on the basis of tax, nor do I interpret the tax debtor's side, nor do I interpret the tax administration's side, as a taxpayer, no, but I am trying in one objective way to look at this problem. In a litigation procedure, in property disputes where it is possible to obsolescence of the party, they have an obligation to point out that some claim has become obsolete, but in a public relationship, what is a tax-legal relationship, obsolescence is being watched by official duty, because this procedure is being conducted under official duty, so you know. I guess these kids of yours weren't at school when she learned that lesson. When you go to the judge for a misdemeanor, if there's an obsolescence of prosecution for a crime, the judge just finds that there's an obsolescence. In the case file database, he sees when the offence was committed, when the party is to make a statement that the procedure has been carried out, how long has it been since the time limit prescribed by law, and if the statutes have been brought before him, the judge shall take the decision to suspend the proceedings for obsolescence. Look, there's nothing to make up here. Legal theory and legal practice in Serbia are too rich in these situations. You have lawyers in the DS, they know when they are called to obsolescence, nothing here is invented new in the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, it is required to apply something that is standard. And legal certainty, and efficiency, and orderly compliance with the obligations that citizens have, and securely perform the functions that civil servants and officials have as an obligation, etc., all of this is included in the statutes of limitations. The way you formulated this, this really looks dirty and corrupt. So the IRS gets the opportunity, based on changes to this law, to fool its citizen. How? The tax administration can't pay attention to obsolescence if the taxpayer didn't call it. Lucky for us that there are some tax officials and they say, "You know what, this is obsolete, say it's old enough to make a record and end it." But he can't depend on an employee, on an individual, on his goodwill. That's the problem with your regulations. That's why I told you at first, tax-law relations are a public-law relationship, and that's where all the other principles and other rules apply. The tax procedure has some specificity in relation to the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act, but basically it is the General Administrative Procedure Act. You've run over all this, there's no specificity that gives you the right to violate the principles of general management, there's no such thing as a specificity when it comes to obsolescence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4023	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 36th Amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4024	Dear People's MPs, I'm surprised this amendment wasn't accepted by the government. I, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to the proposal of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration by proposing that Article 36 be made. The bill is deleted. Article 36 proposes to amend Article 115. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration so that the Government, on a proposal from the Minister and on the initiative of the Minister responsible for Economic and Regional Development Affairs and Development, can make a decision on the release, whether complete or partial, tax and tax duties of the taxpayer sold in the privatisation process or being in the restructuring process. We believe that article 115 has made sufficient deregulation of the existing law, relations, and has given the minister the opportunity to make a decision on the full and partial exemption from the taxpayer's tax obligations, and that it should have stopped there. So this rule of Article 115 is better, it's wide enough that it shouldn't have spread. Mr. Minister, don't follow anything... Because we are not against the exemption and tax write-offs of taxpayers in the privatisation and restructuring process, but we are against this way as you suggest, because nowhere in any law the initiative could not go, nor could any law regulate the initiative and calculate the legal norm. This, of course, gives us the fundamental right to suspect that at the outset of this Minister of Economy and Development's self-will, he is preparing something devious, unique to him, subject to abuses and initiators of such a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4025	Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4026	This is the best amendment and the worst member, it's the worst member. The law never regulates what correspondence will be between members of the government, for which there is a Law on Government, it is written there that they communicate with each other. Here, the legislator imagined that a member of 115 would be a compromise and something to be reconciled. What's he supposed to do about it? It should satisfy the vanity of Mladjan Dinkic. Almost all the ministers' names are included in this article, as if the law was only passed because of Mladjan Dinkic. So it's not about the ministries, it's not about the government, it's not about the taxpayers, it's not about anything. It only has to do with Mladjan Dinkic. That's, like, pit bull terrier economics. And you see how they've come up with it now. It is said this way: "The government can, on a proposal from the minister", is referring to the finance minister, "and on the initiative of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Regional Development", which is inserted, read - Mladjan Dinkic, "to make a decision on a partial or full write-off of taxes and parallel taxes... "and so on. That part's not that controversial. We do not dispute the government's right to make extraordinary decisions like this, to make complete or partial write-offs. I'd just like to remind you that unmistakable tax obligations allow the state to acquire property as well. That's the first thing. Another thing I'd like to remind you of, we have a bad experience with that write-off. We used to criticise Labus for "Sartid," remember? That's what Sartid had to do with the state, the state wrote it all off and sold it to 24 million Americans, and now they're the first on the list of exporters and they're all bragging about how successful they are. When I get something free, I'll be successful, too, probably. You had a fight with the Germans about it. I have this letter where the Germans and the Austrians are complaining about this relationship between the first democratic government (because the first Democrats are the Prime Minister, otherwise it has nothing to do with democracy)... Now you can imagine Mladjan Dinkic leading the economic and regional development portfolio, and there is privatisation when he turns his personal combination! You had a chance to watch, while it was before the technical government, he goes to Zrenjanin and says -- there's going to be a greenfield investment on the ledge to be, by the person you're going to hire, you're a stranger, we know that you're in a difficult economic position, Serbia is too rich, here you are, as a foreigner who invests here, helping with money. What money? From the budget. Who gave it? All the citizens of Serbia, and the naked poor guy who took him away from the Italians, financed by the German, who knows. When you get those books, when you see what they did, there are people who get baptized with both left and right hands. It's called "experts." Mladjan Dinkic is an "expert", Vlahovic boasts that after 14 years of college he was educated for consulting services, for privatisation, for him to know all that, he perfected everything. Just "drp system," nothing more. They say Europe wants us. When Mr Dinkic concludes something, such as what he concluded for Bor, so when he goes with his combinations, so when he presses this one to have to agree, he officially sends a proposal to the government, so they say it's not worth it, and he says G17 goes, the government falls. That's what Dinkic is like. What all those DSS guys had to swallow in three years for Dinkic, just to get through his regulations, to calm him down here! I don't understand why you had to put this in so clearly. I cannot understand that this article stands "on the proposal of the Minister", in this law is the finance minister, "a partial or complete write-off of tax-based claims and other tax-based duties can be made". Probably the minister has to write that he's applied some criteria. Why? Unpaid, a restructuring process can achieve a higher price, to get out in this way, the stranger says he will hire so many people. So, he finds a story, finds some data, and justifies it. How can he justify that when he jumps on his back, Mladjan Dinkic? He has to accept everything Dinkic has, because the government falls. You know how it was, remember 2004. He didn't pass his excise law as he imagined. He got angry and returned the law after 15 days. All those who voted on their consciences, expressing the will of their voters, citizens, etc. They changed their mind, like Ivan Zivadinović. The nice amendments were submitted by a man and we just said that we would vote for those amendments, that at least this would pass for auto-gas, etc. They've been rattling and running for three days. He can't come to the congregation. What did he do wrong? A nice man said, he did his assessment, he wrote another nice amendment, he prepared nicely to explain it, he started lobbying to support his amendment, and we said that we would support the amendment, that it would fit with ours. He's got him, Junior, and he's running away right now. It's "expert" policy. These are the ones they've been learning for 14 years, through which they've learned 14 more years to master this matter. So, two big reasons. The first reason, he cannot write in one regulation how the ministers agree with each other, because then it can be concluded that unless there is an initiative by Mladjan Dinkic, this minister cannot propose. That would be pointless. Perhaps a partial write-off of a tax-based claim is a very good condition for some privatisation and some good to be achieved in the restructuring process. This should be done on the basis of some assessment, not on the basis of the consulting service of Bozidar Djelic or, God forbid, Aleksandr Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4027	Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4028	Mr. Chairman, I am obliged to warn you that you have an obligation when the debater is done with your amendment to ask if anyone else is reporting for a word under that amendment, not that you are self-initiatingly moving on to the next amendment. I wanted to report for two previous amendments, and you denied it to me, so I'm going to use my time to say a few words about previous amendments submitted by colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in all legally well-organised states, the rule is that tax regulations are clear, precise and unequivocal, and this law is all the opposite of that. This law is full of indetermination, language defects, material and legal shortcomings, process-laws, etc. I'm surprised that such a bad bill has even entered the congregation procedure. Mr. Minister, I don't think you've been informed that the tax procedure is, in fact, just one kind of administrative procedure. Tax proceedings are neither criminal nor criminal proceedings. In the tax procedure, the taxpayer or the taxpayer participates as a party. The taxpayer and the taxpayer are not blamed and are not subject to tax proceedings. The tax procedure is the procedure of which is subject to taxation of certain income. In article 114d, you say, "Depreciation is interrupted by any action taken by the Tax Administration against the taxpayer... ". The taxpayer, as far as I know, didn't commit any crime. He's not guilty, he's not a suspect, he's not someone against whom criminal or criminal proceedings are being conducted. I don't know what you need that word for "against a taxpayer." It's really inappropriate this termology. You don't seem to understand the legal nature of the tax procedure. It's a special administrative procedure, it's not a criminal, it's not a criminal, there's no suspects and there's only someone who needs to carry out his tax liability, but he's not guilty and he didn't commit any crimes or crimes. As far as amendments to Article 114g are concerned, it seems that it is not clear to the government itself whether the obsolescence of the Institute is of imperial nature or not, whether obsolescence is binding or not. As you have formulated Article 114, it turns out that obsolescence does not have an imperative nature, but only applies if the taxpayer calls on it. If the taxpayer is not invited to it, it means that the tax procedure can be conducted indefinitely, but it is then opposed to the principles and the State Administration Act. I have to remind you again, the State Administration Act was passed in 2005, when it was passed in the National Assembly, declared one of the most important laws of the new democratic, pro-European, etc. The authorities after 2000. When the State Administration Act was presented in 2004 at Hotel Hayat, it was discussed by the then head of the OSCE mission in Serbia, Mauricio Masari, Vojislav Kostunica and then the state administration minister and all other state officials. Malta has sworn on the new law, how it will be binding on the state administration, how the state administration in Serbia will make it efficient, rational, modern, democratic, etc. You, in this way, are, in fact, the maximum prolonging period for the duration of the tax procedure. This means, if we were to literally interpret Article 114g, that the tax procedure could be conducted indefinitely, that there is no deadline until the tax authority, or the tax administration should establish the tax liability of the taxpayer. It is really not clear to me now whether the Serbian government wants to make this so-called state administration. a public service of citizens who will be rational, efficient, who will act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, or you want to return to Serbia the Turkish administration of the time of Osmanli, unsustainable, sloppy, bureaucratic, which does not respect the law, does not respect citizens' rights, etc. Identify yourself between these two state administration models. I draw your attention that the principles on the work of the state administration are binding on the tax administration as well, and the Tax Administration is a body within the Ministry of Finance. And if someone has to abide by the Constitution and the law, if they have to respect the subjective rights of citizens, then it's the IRS. Because it goes into something that's a sensitive question for every man, and that's his property and his income, and there can't be any inaccuracies, there can't be arbitration, willfulness, like this or whatever possible interpretation of the rules. As far as this last amendment is concerned, I really think it's only during the time of Joseph Broz, in our near past, whether the name of a state official is entered into the law. You have not yet introduced the name of Mladjan Dinkic here, and it is obvious that you have approached this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration only because of the current finance minister. Why? Because by now, by May 2007, we didn't have a Minister of Economy and Regional Development, we only got it a month ago and as soon as we got Mr. Mladjan Dinkic for Minister of Economy and Regional Development, you quickly and better introduced him into the law, so that he could give an initiative to exempt from paying tax obligations. There are no conditions under which the government, on a proposal from the finance minister, can exempt one from paying tax obligations in the privatisation process. That's how you open the door to an enormous political self-will. If what you have proposed is adopted, Serbia will be a state in which the government will be able to do what it wants, the law will no longer be able to bind it, because there are no conditions, and the laws must prescribe it, under which the government can free one from tax obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4029	National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the oldest legal regulations was brought to ancient Babylon by the Babylonian ruler Hamurabi. He had 282 members, it was written on pillars, and it was class law. He was protecting the interests of a class led by Hamurabi. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration amazes all the professional public, and I will brief the professional public to inform, and you, gentlemen MPs, have the content of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law which has proposed and adopted the current power since 2000. First, the law was passed in 2000, so it was changed that same year, it had not yet entered into force. The amendments and additions to that same law take place twice in 2003; in 2004, once, in 2005, once, for the second time and here, we now have 2006, and we have a new proposal to adopt, and the government and the resolution ministry are proposing it. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about the inflation of the laws that the democratic bloc has passed, the 268 laws since 2000, and in 2006, it's proof that they weren't good laws. This isn't about some little law intervention, some little change or supplement. If we take into account the fact that the Law has been amended and complemented over the last six years seven or eight times, and is now being intervened in 60 provisions, then it is no longer possible to say that these are some minor changes and additions that are secondary, which were previously passed by the legislator or legislator, and the failure has been missed, but they have been conditioned by new circumstances which now require that changes be made and complemented. But nothing has changed except that the finance minister has changed. These interventions do not lead to improvement of the law. I doubt we'll have any new changes and additions soon, and suggestions. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37 to delete the proposed Article 115a. Why? We believe that the law cannot be defined; this is a definition, this is a norm that must have such a definition that will be easily understood, which will be easy to apply. You are speaking in the proposal that, immediately, without delay, if it determines irregularities in the taxpayer, the official will initiate the procedure. This is where you're wrong, this is where the person who's authorized is running the procedure, which is the responsible person in the tax office. The responsible person shall sign the request for initiation of the procedure. If we now say that the person responsible is the taxpayer, no, he must be the elder of that authority, who will sign the request, and the record of irregularities should consist exactly of the tax enforcer or worker who determines irregularities related to the execution of tax obligations. Therefore, we Serbian radicals believe that one norm must be clear, understandable, and on the other hand, it must be in accordance with other laws. You have no law, except in this law, now the clerk will do it. Next thing I know, it's the number of tax workers or taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia. According to my knowledge, the tax collectors, as they call them in the people, have about 7.5 thousand and it's a huge apparatus, if that number is correct. However, if you have 7,000 tax collectors who skin tax bonds, mostly natural persons, and on the other hand, if you have, and in practice I have made sure that this is not given enough attention, 12 budgetary inspectors at the Ministry of Finance and that budget inspectors do not enter public enterprises and do not exercise regular budgetary control and control of final accounts... I'm talking about a local level, where I can personally make sure that no budgetary control has been carried out in the Panchevo municipality from 2000 to today in public enterprises. One company, on a proposal from the president of the municipality, carried out a budget check by the municipal budget inspector, and then control was carried out by the republican budgetary inspector and it was found that there was a non-intentional use of funds in one year, in fact two years, of 22,000,000 dinars. The local level is not controlled and public utility companies are not controlled. It's the base of deep-root crime. Without a state to control until the last yellow bank of the taxpayer, we cannot have legal certainty, nor can we have our citizens, taxpayers. That's a big problem. I therefore point out to the current finance minister that the budgetary inspection, the Republic, should go a little bit in the locale and control all budget users from 2001 to the day today, so that you can see for yourself the accuracy of a number of objections indicated by the Serbian Radical Party. You'll see, I've only given you one example, but the president of the municipality didn't say - I want control of all public enterprises; no, he only took one company. Okay, maybe it was a selection, a selective approach. When it comes to the exemption from tax obligations, which Serbian Radical Party MPs have previously been exposed to, I must note that this is where it comes out of the framework of the law. Here, the harshest way to break the law is if this norm stays. What does that mean? The incompetent minister will appreciate alone who he'll propose to be tax-free, on any basis, and then what happens? If he is interested, or if the tycoons and profits are interested, the minister will propose that a company be freed of tax obligations, and his friends will apply for the purchase of the company and will easily buy the company at a lower price. The minister can't be authorized to change the law. If the law stipulates that all taxpayers are obliged to settle their tax obligations, we cannot now allow the minister to walk in on the side track and say - well, I will suggest to reduce, or write off the tax debt and thus, the interested ones will buy the company and facilitate the tycoon to reach capital. We have the latest appearance of a state-run sale. In the sale and purchase process, several tycoons in Serbia expect land, the state, to buy at cheap prices. That's what's waiting for our citizens, and they'll put them in an unequal position, because individuals will... As some in the municipalities began to estimate the land's hectare of 6,000 and half a hectares, according to one catastrian morning, 57 acres, are sold for 12,000 dinars, half a hectare. Now they're going to bid those tycoons who accept this price, but they're going to call the other one who's going to accept that the price is 65,000 dinars, so they're going to give up, he's not interested in what he invested on the bid. But the one with the capital will come to, say, PIC Tamis - Panchevo in a plot that has about 4.5 thousand hectares, that he buys it and he buys it for 6,000. Therefore, the state must be more careful and must take all necessary measures to prevent and, on the other hand, that even citizens, farmers have the opportunity to participate, but on equal terms. I'm a little off the topic in this part, but I wanted to remind the public that Serbia is waiting for the sale of agricultural land, i.e. State land used by the combined. Therefore, I propose to the National Assembly to adopt this amendment that I have submitted, because we believe that this amendment is quite logical and acceptable and that in that case it is more effective for it to be like a norm; that this should be deleted, because it is a norm that has been as satisfying and can be accepted. I note, if 60 and some interventions are in one law, that law... And before that, five, six laws that were passed were not good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4031	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a member of 115 is the most flagrant violation of the Constitution. So if there are examples of violations of the Constitution in one law, then that's Article 115. Here you place a minister above the law, and you give him the opportunity to decide according to his will and his will who will be privileged and who will not. Of course, those with whom he drank whiskey will be privileged when they are otherwise privatized. And feel free to look me in the eye, Mr. Minister. Your prime minister must no longer look anyone in the eye, and you have no reason to follow his example. So who gave such authority to a minister? I guess it's some analogy with the judiciary -- free judgment. Where in the world is free minister's confidence? Mr. Minister, at the Ministerial Council of Nikola Pasic in the Serbian government, which the whole world respected and appreciated, the finance minister was Lazar Pacu. I hope you've read a little history and I hope you know how many tax laws there were at the time. I hope it wasn't such a mess, because I know and I don't blame you, you've been in that place lately, you've had a predecessor who couldn't be in that position anymore, but after all, he wanted to be on someone else, because it frees him from responsibility for all the evils, all the malfeasances and machinations he did at the office of the finance minister. For your information, I will be with the special prosecutor tomorrow for numerous criminal charges for the abuse of Mladjan Dinkic. That, of course, has nothing to do with this. But I repeat, this is a drastic violation of the Constitution. The ruling majority can act like Alice in a wonderland and say, "What do we care?" That's why you don't have a Constitutional Court. That's why they don't have people to complain to, so they can't even argue that this member and many members, as well as these statutes of limitations... Well, people who just walked past law school can immediately see that it's a violation of the Constitution. I don't know which legal expert helped you write this bill, but this is a disgrace and a disgrace. It's better never to be published, because if any foreign experts come, they'll wonder what our laws are like. The First Regular Session was completed, the Constitutional Court was not elected. I repeat that, and I will repeat it over and over again, because it cannot be a legal state that has no constitutional court. Of course, within that first session, I said that yesterday, I repeat today, to be elected, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, governor of the National Bank of Serbia. This is a convenient opportunity, since it is a set of tax laws that always the team mentions Radovan Jelasic, the one who showed by a similar example that laws and the Constitution should not be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4033	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with great care I've been following the presentations and what you've been discussing about the amendments and I must say that I thank you very much for the effort you've made and that it seems professionally to me that this was the most qualitative debate when it comes to any law. My service and I will study in detail all the proposals that you have made and which we have heard so far, with a desire for all the best ideas to be used in the coming period, and at this point I accept the amendment of MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, so that we will consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4035	Thank you. I hereby conclude the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in general and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendment to the Law: Milena Stanković, Zoran Krasić, Milovan Radovanović, Cedomir Jovanovic and Momir Marković. National MP Slobodan Maras withdrew, in writing, an amendment that he submitted to article 9. It's a bill of law. You have received the Government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milena Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4036	National MPs, MPs, respected presidency, Mr. Minister, property tax is one of the most important sources of income for local self-government units in developed countries. It is, in fact, and fair, because that's how much someone has property is the best indicator of his payload ability. Unlike the countries of developed democracy, the situation in Serbia is somewhat different. In fact, this tax could be characterized as one of the least used or, to put it Colloquitically, the most devoid of tax forms, for the simple reason that the Central Tax Administration has never dealt with this tax, because this is a tax that collects funds that flow into the budgets of local self-government units. We're right here, doing some analysis, and we've noticed that this tax at this point works so that it pleases the richest citizens of our country for a number of reasons. The status of the property, which is essential for determining the tax base, is not sufficiently up-to-date, i.e. it happens very often that these databases, in which these data are located, are such that there are no records of any building upgrades that occurred in the meantime, which of course means that the richest, therefore those who can control their facilities, do not pay a tax that would be proportionate to the property they possess. Also, the valuation of the value of the asset is very bad, because the parameters used to determine the value of the asset do not reflect the value of the asset well enough. Tax exemptions are also designed to please the richest citizens of this country. What's also very important, and what's very bad, especially for local self-government units, is that the rate of these taxes is very low and is somewhere between 30 and 50%. At this point, we have to commend the tendency to go to the tax administration being decentralised, and that's really good. But what we have noticed is that decentralisation is so designed that units of local self-government have been transferred to responsibilities, but that units of local self-government are not left with mechanisms that could effectively charge these taxes. Without the right of units of local self-government to be those who will go on the ground and record the state of property on the basis of which the property tax is determined, this tax will never be effective. In fact, we think that local self-government units should be the ones to record any changes in the field. We also believe that it is important that the Central Tax Administration, in a clearly defined time-limit, determines the tax base based on the state of the property recorded on the ground. What is usually paradoxical, and at this point there is, is that local self-government authorities dealing with these taxes often require some documentation made by the republican authorities. In order for those people who work in the authorities of local self-government to get those documents, they have to pay large fees for that documentation. It is a bit paradoxical, for the simple reason that the work of the republican authorities and the work of local authorities are financed by citizens. The amendment I would now speak of and which I have submitted is actually an amendment relating to the determination of the level of the market value of the immovableity. In fact, we suggested that Article 5(2) should change and that it read as follows: "The level of the market value of the immovableity is determined by the competent authority of the local self-government unit in a way and by a procedure that is closer determined by the Ministry of Finance. "In fact, we believe that the Ministry of Finance or the finance minister should establish a rule establishing a methodology for establishing the market value of immovableity. This would avoid an unequal tax treatment for those citizens living in different units of local self-government. So to sum up one more thing: it's very good that the initiative to decentralize the Central Tax Administration is launched, but without the right mechanisms, this tendency will not be able to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4037	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4038	The Serbian Radical Party submitted three amendments to the bill. I'll take the opportunity to briefly explain all these three amendments, taking care of the weather. Mr. Radovanovic submitted an amendment requiring that Article 4 of Article 1 be deleted. We believe that the existing formulation in Article 12, paragraph 1, point 3 is better than what you suggest. I know you're going to say, as an argument, that it's a compliance with the Church and Religious Communities Act, etc. I think the current formulation is far more precise and I must draw your attention that, according to the transitional and final provisions of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Property Tax Act, this provision will practically come into force only on 1 January 2008. I don't think this haste was necessary, and this existing formula defines traditional churches and religious communities in one more acceptable way, which has not been problematic so far. I think that kind of compliance with the new Law on Churches and Religious Communities can create confusion. The second amendment applies also to Article 4(3) of point 12), and it is about the fact that the property tax is not paid, you have attributed here – for which the international contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia has been arranged not to pay the property tax. Of course, there are several other important principles. The basic principle is the principle of reciprocity. This means when it comes to the assets of foreign states and international organisations. However, we have requested an amendment to install here and mandatory confirmation in the National Assembly, as it cannot be an international contract, an international agreement to produce a legal fact unless it is confirmed by the National Assembly, because it is then gaining its legislative weight. This way, and I see that it is a simple manner, if the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister or President of the Republic concludes an international treaty and it is not submitted for confirmation here, then there is virtually no such thing. We have such cases, both with the Dayton Agreement and with that famous contract concluded by Vuk Draskovic with the NATO Pact, I won't mention it now, so later somehow it came to confirmation at the moment when the one who was in power estimated that it was politically profitable to talk about it and then rise up loudly seven days before and seven days after it was epochal. Let me remind you of the time when the border is set on Drina, and then the cameraman of the public service comes out and surveys the citizens, and they say there's no alternative. It must be in our regulations that confirmation is in the National Assembly, because by confirming it, or by passing the law, that international agreement gets its verification, it gets its legal weight. The third amendment that we have tabled on this bill is identical with the amendment of one of our Members of Parliament who has submitted an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which concerns the period from when tax exemptions are due. At that time, there was a value added tax, vomiting, and here tax exemption, because it was a property tax. These two laws in one part suffer the same change, that is, the first apartment, etc., that I am now not going back to that discussion, because yesterday we talked a lot about it, but the same amendment, if it could go back to closed contracts from July 1, 2006, so before many of the other conditions that were prescribed in that article are also sufficient assurance to indicate that something could not be misused, that you here planned this. We have not submitted amendments to the other provisions. We felt that these three amendments were necessary, especially the second and third. As far as the first one is concerned, we accept the need for a termological agreement with the law, but we still feel that the existing formulation is far more effective and clear for tax authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4039	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CARIN TARIFI (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Jorvanka Tabaković on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4040	The amendments to this Customs Tariff Act can be reduced to two groups. The first group are those amendments aimed not only at harmonising and harmonising the nomenclature with rules, not to quote now these regulations of customs organisations, etc., but rather to rely on the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that something which they consider to be a legal-technical part is not burdensome with the law, in the sense that in the event of a change in certain tariff codes, the Assembly is re-emerged to amend this law, but to have the government given that authority to embody it. I need to tell you right now that there's a legal problem. The one who brings, the one who changes. He who has the authority to pass the Customs Tariff Act, with the contribution to where the nomenclature is located, is the only one authorized to do so. He cannot, by adopting one text, give blanco authority to the Government to change these tariff groups and those tariff numbers by means of its sublegal acts. It's a principled problem, that's what I have to tell you. The fact that you wrote here that if another rate of customs is prescribed in column four, etc., that they are holding back during the village, etc., that is irrelevant to this principle problem. Next, you're raising some agreements to some level that isn't adequate, and I just can't figure out that's how it can be done. He says, "... which, according to the Single Agreement on Free Trade in the South East European region and the Draft Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are also obliged to install... ". Find a little bit of someone regardless of when you're referring to some documents. From the point of view of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, this agreement is a CEFTA draft document, or I could say - an expression of the political will of those who signed it. He gets his credentials from the National Assembly. You're avoiding that verification for now, I don't know what the reason is, you're probably just writing some evaluations about what's gotten, what's lost. It's gotten a lot more lost than it's gotten, I have to tell you. I have another very dear news to tell you. Negotiations on the future EU constitution are likely to include one provision that will mean that all EU member states should decide on new members during the upcoming enlargement through the referendums. It's enough for one country to say no, we don't want that and that member, and the whole operation is ruined. Let me just remind you of Turkey, which problems they now have and remind you of our immediate environment, which they will only have problems with. I don't want to announce them, I'm well informed, so it's an impossible mission. Don't turn an impossible mission into something quite certain. Don't throw away any more illusions about the European Union and some things that are just waiting for us there, that we show up there, or especially to instruct those from your commission who say -- you know, we have to meet that, we don't have alternatives, etc. Let's change the policy a little bit and say - the interests of these citizens have no alternative, the interests of the Republic of Serbia do not have an alternative. Let me remind you what politics looks like. You will remember that perhaps a year ago there was a cry for Tomislav Nikolic when he made one statement – all those who individually think that they recognise Kosovo and Metohija can count on the interruption of diplomatic relations and that we will review our future relations with these countries. Just to remind you, the younger Vuk Jeremic said that sentence yesterday at a meeting, that very sentence. None of you attacked him, and in Yotu is different from what Mr Tomislav Nikolic was saying. I mention Milosevic because tomorrow is the anniversary when they delivered him, they took five million; Vidovdan, you know, will follow you as long as you live. So find some measure, find something, respect that intelligence a little bit. I'm absolutely sure that anything you suggest can go through, but go to some village, some village, sit next to some uncle, and convince him what you're saying is possible. You know, we do know something here, we read, we're in communications, we talk, we go abroad a little bit, we watch it there, etc. On the run of these media, we somehow manage to get through with some information, say it's not exactly what you're talking about. The EU is far from us, and this with the CEFTA agreement, etc., this possibility of being a large market, so it will be a mini single market on which we will have some access, we don't have to be that rigorous about the standard, etc., be assured, we have to come down to being our market - please welcome everyone else. You know how these negotiations are. I don't want to tell you what the conditions are for Croatia. That's their problem, let them take care of themselves, let them take care of themselves, think about how they're gonna meet it. The sword will come for itself, to tell you that, because in Europe the international public, the international conscience will work. They'll have to take everything back to Knin, Benkovac and all the places, remember what I'm saying. No more Serbs will be a statistical error of up to 2%, but 12%, as many as there were, but they will come. Slowly unwrapping the ball, it matures. There are a lot of intellectuals in Europe who know what's true and who understand which way and where this is going. So take care of it. I will not specifically explain to you the essence of this amendment, and especially not this next amendment, but I think you are inappropriately getting a great deal of authority to change the authentic Act of the National Assembly by sublegal acts. You can't get that right, because it's a list with a nomenclature, with those tariff numbers, with columns, regimes, etc. It's an integral part of the law. Besides, there's a practice of how it was done. Do not rely much on these world organisations of this legal and technical form of co-operation, nomenclature, division, etc. There's a lot of stuff behind those codes, everything and everything that's hidden. That is why it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide. I do not dispute that these issues have been resolved differently in certain countries. Somewhere this is a question of a sublaw, somewhere it is a matter of an act brought by a minister, whether it is a recommendation or a directive, etc., but it comes from their internal legal order. Our legal order doesn't allow this. You have the provisions of the Constitution of the authority of the Republic of Serbia, you have the provisions of the Constitution on the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is not an executive function, that you change the tariff, the list, and you insert, you expand, you change, etc. No, that's what the Assembly has to do. I don't know why you care so much, but as soon as you show tenacity in that little thing... Never will the National Assembly cause trouble with tariff numbers, something that is an international standard, remember. It never happened to be a problem. Always in the debate on the Customs Tariff Act, only customs rates, column 4, were taken into account and this was the reason for some amendments, etc. No MP will give himself the right to change international standardisation. That's crazy, no one would do that. You're supposed to take this as a sublegal act, so you're sublegally changing the law. It's destroying the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4041	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4042	I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Amendment Act and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, Article 6. When I read you a sentence of that article 6 in it you will see all the consistency of the government in order to carry out its power in an illegal manner, regulations, and all the tenacity of the Serbian Radical Party to point out and try to prevent it. Article 6 says – if this stems from commitments made by international contracts – then there is no word I insist on, that they are ratified in the Assembly – the government can comply with the Customs Tariff nomenclature for 2007 with the regulation to be applied. So by regulation you define subsidies, very selective, certain actions and businesses. We talked about it about the budget. There is no subsidy law, a law that would define criteria, known to all, and an approach that is defined for the market economy as equal chances for all citizens. The regulation on foreign direct investment promotes employment and, as my colleague Krasic said, it is true that neither the Foreign Investment Agency nor the institution exists anymore, but there is Mr Mladjan Dinkic, who is wondering who is being brought to the attention, for example. A guarantee, to call her conditionally, for a good job. So, the principle is that this government, I say responsibly, exercise power not based not on the law, in one part, not with the co-operation of the Assembly that will discuss and that citizens hear arguments about and against, but regulations, which are a matter of extortion, short-term solutions, which are not absolutely acceptable. Why does it matter? You have an undeniable majority, and then why don't you want what's necessary as a precondition for realisation, I'm talking in this case about the CEFTA agreement, to end up here in the Assembly? I have my suspicions, which I publicly express, that some view of that tariff might just be the one mentioned yesterday by Mr. Paja Momchilov, that perhaps they could be transported or stored even by various materials and wastes, perhaps. Every secret and every work behind closed doors gives birth to doubt. But it is undoubtedly necessary that the agreement, which has a major impact on the business of economic operators in the country and which produces consequences on all of us, be ratified in this home. The ratification is a constitutional obligation, according to Articles 194 and 195, the hierarchy of international and domestic law. And, as your mentors, your donors, I'm talking again about the international trust fund contract, which has given six million-dollar aid to privatization as it suits them and to pay the privatisation commissions... The agreement, at the request of the donors, was ratified in the Federal Assembly. You know for what reason? Because it obliges a future government not to break up, not to cancel, because it would cause more damage than its non-application. You'll also have to ratify the CEFTA agreement. It was supposed to be up to half of 2007, dynamically, and that's why some new future government, perhaps radical, everyone's afraid, doesn't have a more beneficial approach to domestic production. If he had a different attitude towards liberalisation, which is a synonym for opening up the market for multinational companies and, I'm free to say, for products and suspicious quality. For this reason, that the change of government does not question one such project – called 'the waiting room in front of the European Union', because CEFTA is that, it is a waiting room in front of the European Union, if at all CEFTA exists until the moment they decide that our country may deserve to enter that circle – they need ratification as a guarantee, and we do not. I understand your desire to enter CEFTA despite the negative consequences that you do not inform the public of. Because the purpose of each of these economic regions, which are also political regions, is precisely to ensure that members within the region provide benefits, but that one outside the region is discriminated against. I know that we want to avoid this discrimination, but not by literally misleading citizens that we are now open to a new market, because we were able to work and trade with these countries under bilateral agreements. I'll talk about the CEFTA agreement when his ratification is on the agenda, which I stand for. But, please, Mr. Minister, seriously consider, for the sake of you and some history that we all expect you to take no personal responsibility, as a proposer on behalf of the Government, for what we all need to take responsibility for. We take it two different ways. You insist on the benefits we suspect, but behind you remains, when it is ratified here, a document that has passed the regular procedure. We are left with radicals with stenograms, if nothing else, and the court of the public that we have opposed bad decisions that have adverse consequences. If you had respected such a principle, it would not have happened if I were to present to the public today the Confirmation Act (so-called this one has been confirmed) of the concession agreement, which, in addition to the so-called international contract. As a donation, I consider one of the biggest DOS failures since 2000 until today. What's the most controversial thing about this law? On July 3rd 2002, the Official Journal was published; Vojislav Kostunica confirmed it on July 1st 2002, and in the Official Journal of the SRJ, issue 11 since 2002, in February 2002, listen well to me, the Official Journal was published, which had only one page, which said that according to the Confirmation Act, which was brought four months later, cleared the National Bank's balance from losses. It is a credit to Mladjan Dinkic that the National Bank for the first time in its history has shown a loss. Do you understand what I'm talking about? You're passing the law in February, based on a law that will be passed in July. It's a shame to all of us. The fact that the Sucession Agreement was made in five days, from 22 to 23 April, and from 21 to 23 February and from 9 to 10 April 2001, in five days, and it was discussed by six international intermediaries for six full years... You handed over all the gold that the Kingdom still had within five days; one of the great economists, Mr. Labus, went to Basel to seek gold and said that he had not found it, for he had not seen on it the seal of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. That gold was refined in 1939 and had only a certificate of quality. Economists will know what an insult it is that an economist thinks in material categories, instead of in value, and he says we didn't find gold, so he's gone. Dear gentlemen, an agreement has been confirmed under which... I don't want to talk about how the embassy is divided, the consulates. I'm talking about how the material values are gone. It's not true they're missing. But it's terrible that today a large number of refugees, people who have earned a pension, who have property, under the law not implemented, confirmed in this assembly, today cannot exercise their basic rights. Dear fellow, this is what I'm talking about as a principle, I'm talking about phenomena and how you don't need to exercise power. Any amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party for Citizens is in fact a guideline so that we can exercise power if we are in a position. Please, for your sake, for the shared division of responsibility, all that this people need to hear, even if it is bad, let his people's representatives, in a home that is authorized to do so, his arguments for and his arguments against. Amongst other things, as gold broke out, it would be time to ask the question of who sold out all the assets of banks that were bankrupt in one day in 2001 disappeared. And not only is it about their art paintings, their business space, but the money that was in those banks' accounts. To conclude, a good system is not the one that requires perfect people, because all people have human weaknesses; a good system is the one that makes it impossible for those weaknesses to fail, which is why we will all suffer, and that failures must be minimal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-27-0.u4043	I thank you, too. Does anyone else appear on this agenda? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have completed the review of the bill's proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure, I order Friday, June 29th, 2007, starting at 17 a.m. as a day for voting on items 2 - 9 of the agenda. So we're not working tomorrow. To all citizens, I wish all MPs a happy day and I'll see you Friday. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 127 MPs attend. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milos Jeftic and Dragan Vujadinovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS TO THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, in principle. For 131 against 18, they did not vote two out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Oliver Dulic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 135, he did not vote 31, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 124, 12 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 126, 15 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dusan Stupar. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 125, there was no vote of 18, of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Amjad Migati. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 126, 15 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 27. I remind you that the government is in Article 27. The draft law provides a feedback to these provisions. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote a proposal from the Government, contained in Article 27. The bill, on the feedback of these provisions, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 125 abstentions, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 28a be added. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, 22 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ivana Zecevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 126, there was no vote of 20, of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. For 132, against 60, it did not vote 19 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ACCUSES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. For 129 against 21, two of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Milorad Krstin. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 127, it did not vote 7, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sasa Valjarevic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 126, there were no votes of 18, of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 129, 14 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 129, 62 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. This is Voting Day and there's a transmission, so I'm asking you to keep working. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, it did not vote 16 out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sasa Valjarevic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 127, it did not vote 15 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 18th Amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 126, 15 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, 14 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 124, 14 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Marija Milisic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, against 31, it did not vote 53, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 127, it did not vote 14 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, there were 14 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, there was no vote of 16 out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 127, 15 of the 219 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 128, 12 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 17 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, 15 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. For 13, against 22, four out of 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PORTES PROCEDURE AND THE IRSECTION ADMINISTRATIVE After the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. For 138, against 14, it did not vote 7, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. An MP named Milena Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 138, 12 of the 219 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 128, 15 of the 220 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 124, three abstentions, 17 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic submitted to the 35th amendment. During the review of the draft law, the Proposer informed in particular that he accepts this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 213, against one, it did not vote 9, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you that the government has proposed a feedback of article 61. It's a bill of law. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall specifically decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the government's proposal contained in Article 61. The draft law on the feedback of this provision, which, according to the government's assessment, is of general interest. For 129 against three, 27 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 61. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. For 136, against 6, there was no vote of 26, out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the law in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. For 137 against 15, it did not vote 8 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Slobodan Maras withdrew the amendment in writing on 18 June 2007 to Article 9. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. An MP named Milena Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 128, 52 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 124, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, v. 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 125, it did not vote 78 of the 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 129, two abstentions, 27 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you that the Government has proposed a feedback to the provision of Article 29(1). It's a bill of law. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall specifically decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the Government's proposal contained in Article 29(1). The draft law on the feedback of this provision, which, according to the government's assessment, is of general interest. For 129 against 16, it did not vote 63 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. In particular, the National Assembly decided that there was a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 29(1). It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. For 138, against 14, one abstention, did not vote 6, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CARIN TARIFI After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in principle. For 130, against 22, five out of 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 127, 20 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 128, 17 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act as a whole. For 130, against 22, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE CIVIL PROTECTORS AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 4. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Protector of Citizens, elects most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the choice of citizens' protectors. 17 of the 160 MPs did not vote for 143. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to elect the citizens' protectors. Since the National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision and thus elected Mr. Sasa Jankovic as the guardian of citizens, allow me to congratulate Mr. Sasa Jankovic on his choice and wish him success on your behalf. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the selection of the PUBLIC OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC MEANS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 30. The Law on free access to information of public importance, the National Assembly elects the Commissioner for Information to be publicly relevant to the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on selecting a trustee for information of public importance. 15 of the 159 MPs did not vote for 144. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision and I congratulate Mr Rodoljub Sabic on the choice of trustee for information of public importance. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(2) point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of Elections, or the resolution of board members, decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, with a correction. For 215, he did not vote one of the 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect members of the National Assembly Committee, with a correction. THE employees of the National Assembly were injured by the MPs during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the President of the Assembly's explanation, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 21 June 2007 at 15.00 hours, pointed to a violation of article 147. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 63, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 21 June 2007 at 15.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 139. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 58, against 127, 29 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 21 June 2007 at 15.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 147. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 59, against 128, 27 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on 21 June 2007 at 15.27 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 45 and 146. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 64, against 127, they did not vote 24 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on June 21st, 2007 at 15.37 p.m., pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure in connection with calling and holding a session of the Finance Committee. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured Rules of Procedure in the work pointed out by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 59, against 126, 29 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has decided that no injured Rules of Procedure in the part pointed out by MP Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 22 June 2007 at 10.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 57, against 127, it did not vote 30 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 22 June 2007 at 16.45 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 70, against 128, it did not vote 14 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue at 18.20 hours. (The session is closed at 18.05 hours. )
