ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 108 Members of the People. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the War Crimes Procedure (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs of Rade, Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic on the draft law. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the judiciary and administration committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give my word to the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta, the People's MP, Dr Zarko Obradović, and then the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, appeared in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9647	Thank you, Mr. President. I've reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure, for the reasons I heard the contents of one information that I think we should say something today at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has rightly indicated the need for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to take a unique stance on the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and the preservation of the Republic of Serbia as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think all three authorities in Serbia have done it properly, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Serbia. It is so much more surprising that all three authorities in the Republic of Serbia were absolutely directed to implement the Dayton Agreement, to preserve Republika Srpska, and to preserve Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm saying this because we had a chance through the media this morning to find out that the ambassadors of the United Kingdom and the United States had sent a demarcation to both the government and the president and the foreign minister, and they were sent to the Ministry, and that the demarcation was joined by France, Italy and Germany. I am only saying this to be seen in the work of keeping the main word regarding the situation in the Balkans and to see how these parties behave. Our government, our President and our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are objecting to what is in favour of the Dayton Agreement and respect for Resolution 1244, while at the same time representatives of these countries directly, clearly and publicly say that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent, say they should not respect Resolution 1244, show that there is no international right for them, nor provisions of the UN Charter. Those double arches are absolutely in action. I think our country has the right to react, as well as to support the attitudes of the Republika Srpska, because they will certainly know what they need to do. I am saying this because it is obviously part of the plan for Kosovo and Metohija to be separated from the composition of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for Republika Srpska to fully integrate into Bosnia and Herzegovina and to lose all the specialities it had under the Dayton Agreement. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has to underline this once more, but also point to double arches. Believe me, they're not talking about the referendum, for the simple reason they expect the Kosovo and Metohija issue to be resolved without a referendum, by force, because to talk about a referendum, then they would have to apply it in Republika Srpska. I just remind the forgetful that the referendum was foreseen in an agreement in Rambujeu, which our government then rejected and the state leadership at the time, as it envisioned a statement by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President, I thought this should be underlined, because we all have to stand by the defense and the Dayton Agreement, but also Resolution 1244, that we don't have double arches, and in particular that lessons don't give us those who at one point advocate one, and at another moment for another.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9648	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and then the Messenger of the people, Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9649	Welcome, Minister Petrovic. SRS MPs have quite a number of questions for you today. I hope you're willing to do your job and cooperate with the MPs, as always, it's fine. Before I ask you a specific question on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to congratulate all who celebrate St. Luke's Christian glory, and above all, the family of Vojislav Seselj, who has been celebrating his Christian name for the fifth year in the absence of the host of the house, and for this is directly responsible the Dosmanli regime. We will discuss this during today's debate, and now, Mr. Minister, a question for you. According to the information we have, it is not disputed, it is public information that yesterday at the Faculty of Law was supposed to be held on the subject - the situation in Serbia's judiciary. In that trial, in addition to this judge you removed from the Supreme Court, a lawyer named Vujin, a lawyer named Petronijevic, was to speak as well. And there was something that just wasn't normal and that wasn't appropriate, even though everything was organized about that stands, the students were ready to respond in large numbers. Two hours before scheduled time for the start of the stands, they have been informed that the stands are being postponed. The official explanation was that, apparently, the Dean of Law School was killed by a sister. If it is, my condolences, but the Law School isn't the private firm of that dean and all that, I don't believe that that's why the class was interrupted, it was supposed to be working at law school it had to be done. What is our reliable information, Mr Petrovic, is that you personally banned and influenced the meeting at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. So, the particular question, why did you do it, what your influence, your interest that the students of the Law Faculty should not discuss with names such as Goran Petronivic and Mr Vujin, to discuss the situation in the Serbian judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9650	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Žutic reported, and then Božidar Delic advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9651	Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I ask the Serbian government, or Minister Petrovic, why is there no right to historical injustice and to press charges against Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without Republika Srpska, for all crimes committed during the 20th century? It is astounding that the Serbian state's totally defensive appearance in the event of charges by the genocide state of Croatia and the genocide-based K&K formation, Bosnia and Herzegovina, against Serbia and the Serb people. According to these charges, Serbs are a genocide nation to be wiped off the map of Europe. They forget that the Serbian people who still suffered the most from genocide during the 20th century are alongside the Jews. In a projected war of the 1990s since Western liberal democracies, such as in all wars during the 20th century, Serbs only responded to aggressive anti-Serbian foreign policies, which were mainly conducted on behalf of foreign conquerors by Serbs of Islamic faith and Serbs of the Roman Catholic faith, so-called "Peace". Croats. The Serbs mostly performed as vigilantes. The right is a well-known view that the first person to commit a criminal act is responsible, especially who first begins with the mass killing of women, children and non-monetaries. So the historic opportunity is to finally condemn all crimes of genocide against the Serb people, which have long been hidden and minorized by both the monarchy and the communist authorities of Yugoslavia. Such processes could have been initiated in 1990, following the collapse of Joseph Broz Tito's socialist system, which his brotherhood and unity without a heart, and which, like King Alexander, for the achievement of the brotherhood between the victim and the slayer, pardoned the crimes of genocide against Serbs. Roughly speaking, living over Serbs has been on the move since the beginning of the Croatian nation in the second half of the 19th century, when Frank's people are focusing on the Serbians of Zagreb, especially when they visited Emperor Franz Joseph Zagreb in 1895, when Serbs simply wanted to highlight the Orthodox Serbian flags in honor of the high guest. Then, large genocide activities took place in 1902 in Zagreb. Some writers called the event Arnautluk in Zagreb, called it the Bartholomew Serbian Night. At that time, numerous Serbian shops were destroyed and many talented Serbian merchants, who held a Zagreb trade with the Jews, were just wiped out with their shops. The popular hatred for Serbs completely broke out in 1914, following the assassination of Gavril Principe on Franc Ferdinand – just a few seconds to finish – which was the main designer of the creation of the third unit of Austria, Greater Croatia. Genocide occurs in Machva and Sapac, genocide occurs in other parts of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9652	And if you gave it to us in writing, everything you thought to say to the end now, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the Assembly, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9653	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when was the last time you were here in the assembly I asked you a question regarding the case of the Dry River. It was just that for two years, the procedure had been going on, that two years of people in custody, I even mentioned a name that I was particularly interested in. After that, there is just over a month, there has been a case with Judge Gordana Bozilović-Peterovic and here are days in the press of the lady defending her integrity, authority and her professional relationship and work in the war crimes court. The President of the District Court, Mr. Sinisa Okic, is not answering the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero, you are not answering either, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Gordana Bozilovic was a member of the court council in all war crimes cases, and in the case of "Scorpioni", she was the president of the court council. I mean, Mr. Minister, even though you're going to say in your answer that you're not involved in the trial business, which I know is fine, but as justice minister, I guess you should be interested in justice in this country. What happened with Mrs. Gordan Bozilovic-Petrovic is the worst blow to justice and justice in the state of Serbia. There has been no debate in the War Crimes Court for a month now, as legal teams are looking for an exemption and a judicial council, and the President of the District Court, and the President of the Supreme Court. The question is when will the trial begin in that court at all? You know, like me, that the werewolf case has been going on for four years, that it's entered the second cycle, that it's now interrupted again and it's moving again from the beginning. The Genesis Brothers case, too, and the Scorpions -- and they're going to do about the same thing, because the case is now in the Supreme Court, but since it's changing in court, it's going to start all over again. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that your predecessors, and now you're in that place, to allow the most sensitive activity in our country, and that's the judiciary, the various donations, and that's what we have in this case, and that's what we're talking about, affecting the sentencing? Because it's obvious that someone wasn't satisfied with the judgment on the Scorpio case. Natasa Kandic is mentioned and a foreign embassy has been mentioned. What if I didn't say it was the American embassy, who just made donations to our judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9654	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic and then MP Dragan Šormaz appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9655	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the DS Parliament Club, I would like to suggest, if you agree, that today we do a little bit on the agenda points, and that we leave the MPs' questions and the minister's presence for that point of the Rules of Procedure that defines the parliamentary issues. I've reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, so that I don't have some reminding me that I don't know why I answered. I would really like to take advantage of the presence of the minister and the will and the intention to show the citizens of Serbia that we are ready to work and to discuss only three amendments to the existing law, because the MPs of the SRS have proposed certain amendments, and to show a good will to move things forward in Serbia. Then let's use the minister's presence and use the second part of the session for the questions you want to ask the minister, because the DS has never avoided answering opposition questions. Don't tell me it's my minister. Dusan Petrovic is the minister of all citizens of this country, not the minister of the DS or mine. To end this announcement by the Rules of Procedure, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all citizens of Serbia, who are celebrating the Holy apostle and the Evangelist Luke today, on the Christian glory. I am particularly using this right to congratulate the Christian glory of my friends, relatives, family, godfathers from Kosovo and Metohija, who were expelled in 1999 when the DS was in opposition and is not responsible for their banishment from Kosovo and Metohija. Congratulations on the glory of the Petkovic family, whose son died in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, so he will take a Slavic cake to his grave and pray for the retirement of his soul. But we will pray for the souls of those who are responsible for his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9656	Can I, on behalf of all of you, congratulate the citizens of Serbia, baptize St. Luke's glory, so that everyone doesn't now go out and repeat their congratulations? Please, really. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Šormaz and then MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9657	According to the same members Mr. Zarko Obradovic also reported. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to remind you of what I think the meeting has begun well today, and I would like to appeal to the President of the Assembly, who has just shown this good will, and I accept his offer, and therefore I will not speak of what the predecessor spoke of earlier. Here, just to calm down a little MPs, Mr. President. I think it is very important at this time to stress and give support, for who knows which time, regardless of the demarch of those ambassadors addressed to our country or the Ministry of the Interior, that we must as a National Assembly, as did the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, but once again, if we need a press conference held by the President of the Assembly, give support to Republika Srpska, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the Government of Republika Srpska. We in the Democratic Party of Serbia are not at all surprised by this type of pressure. Of course, pressure is being put on both Serbia and Republika Srpska, of course it is being done because they want to take 15% of our territory, of course it is being done because of the need to make as much political interference as possible, primarily in Serbia, but also in Republika Srpska, in order to distract our attention and focus from what is most important for our people, wherever they live, and this is the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. For this reason, I appeal once again, and from this pay phone as a national MP, to all political actors in the country to forget stories about any campaigns and elections until December 10th in Serbia, because we need state, national and political unity as a people, wherever they are and whatever country we live in, to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9658	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, and then MP Nemanja Sarovic, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9659	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 46. Rules of Procedure. Another scandal took place during the second part of the Defence and Security Committee. Last week, there was supposed to be a session of the Committee, more precisely last Wednesday, where we would like to discuss the report of the Security and Information Agency, which should – in front of the public and not only in front of the Members of the Committee, but I call on all of you who are not, and you want to come – to be submitted to us by the Director of the Security and Information Agency Rade Bulatović. The Serbian Radical Party, during the time that Mr. Milorad Mircic was the chairman of the committee, fought to respect the Security and Information Agency Act, and that we MPs, who should control Bulatovic and Bija, and to discuss the state of security, did not do so in the building on Banjica, there at VMA, as it was earlier, but one day three years ago we left the building and told the said gentleman, who remained in that place on the basis of your coalition agreement of May 15th, that he must come to the National Assembly building, that the sessions should be public and that journalists, MPs who are members of the Committee and those who are not, and that he answers to all our questions. Mr Bulatovic has not given us answers to many questions a few years ago. We're gonna have to remind him today. But what I've reported for is an unprecedented scandal. Namely, Mr. Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Rade Bulatovic goes so far in his passion, I would also say such a relationship with the Defence and Security Committee, which should control him, that the session he originally scheduled for last session has been postponed for today. But we got phone calls last night saying it wasn't at 12:00, it was at 2:00. Imagine how he would take care of the security of Serbian citizens, when he himself did not know where he was and when he would come, when he did not know whether he would come or come today at 12 or 14 o'clock. What's worst of all is that this report of the Security Information Agency, which is top secret and which only we, members of the Security Committee, can read, imagine, in the House of the National Assembly building. I should now invite all my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party and others who are members of the Committee to go from here to the National Assembly's House for a quick reading of the report they invited us to read today, which is with the haired and shown information, so that we can return here, and consider whether Rade Bulatovic will come at 14 hours or not. Now I tell you and tell him, Mr. Dulic, if he wants to come at 14 hours, don't enter the National Assembly building without a report of how his agents in Belgrade arrested General Tolimir and don't come to the National Assembly, because it would be a farce from the board, without any information on who arrested Dark Mladic, the son of General Ratko Mladic and his wife, namely General Mladic, Biljan Mladic, on whose orders, which is why they were detained, detained and why he treats today the most important issue, which is the security of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9660	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic reported. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi, Petar Jojic, Nikola Žutic, also appeared. I'm really asking you to move on to the agenda then.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9661	Mr Petrovic, I reported in accordance with Article 198. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 200. In fact, article 198 says the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government in their jurisdiction, to refer between two sessions or at the session itself. Member of the 200th says - the government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately. I'd like you to listen to this, because the deadlines have already been in line with which you were supposed to answer me, well, here, that's why I'm reading you the deadlines. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. The Government’s reply, i.e. the Prime Minister’s reply, shall be delivered to all MPs. The third position, exceptionally, if it is necessary to determine the facts in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question whose determination requires a specific time or a more complex analysis, and the deadline for giving a parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. More than 30 days ago, I asked Mr. Petrovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the complete Government of the Republic of Serbia, a parliamentary issue concerning a criminal report that I filed on 19 June 2007, here I will dictate to you, and write down, under the number of KT 123/07, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj, concerning the broadcasting of a two-hour show on the Bujanovac Radio. Three nights in a row went by, criminal charges were filed against Fitimic Dusan, editor-in-chief, Jahid Ramadani, director of television. Of course, after filing a criminal report, I also filed an emergency with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and asked them, in accordance with their powers, to verify whether the District Attorney's Office had acted in any way. And of course, I asked you to answer, that, in accordance with your powers as minister of justice, you too, determine whether in any way it was acted upon in accordance with this application. There is a special importance to all of this because after that there has been an escalation of some of the unsatisfactory events. And then with, I warned, so back in June, it could happen. Now some much worse things show up there. I don't know if you're up to it or not, but Novi Pazar isn't the only city in Serbia that has a Wahhabi presence; and in Bujanovac, and in Presevo, I'll bring you pictures and I'll show you from the assembly booth, you can see the Wahhabi lately. So, without any valuable evaluations, but it's something that concerns us because we know what kind of ruthless scenes have been going on in Tutin and New Market, there's been more than enough time... (President: Time. ) Please, I quoted two members of the Rules of Procedure, please include it. (President: Here, you have 20 seconds left. No, I've got more than a minute, Mr. Dulliche, because I looked at the clock. Now, take off the 20 seconds you've spent on me like this. It was your duty, Mr. Petrovic, to answer me within eight days. I think that was quite a deadline, but in any case, you were obliged to go out for this pay phone and say, at least in that way you respect me, not me, but at least this Parliament, and to say that this is something that is extremely complex, that takes a long time and that you give me an answer, to me and to all the other MPs, within 30 days. Now that deadline has passed. Once again I ask you, will I get an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are you perhaps able to give it now? I certainly expect an answer in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9662	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Nikola Žutić, and then the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9663	Dear MPs, Mr. Minister, I continue with my parliamentary question regarding genocide against Serbs during the 20th century and the indictment of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I stopped at World War I. The popular hatred for Serbs completely broke out in 1914 after the assassination of Gavril Principe at Franc Ferdinand, who was the main designer of the creation of the third unit of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of the great Croatia. As a result of this, the genocide in Mačva, Sapac, Srem, numerous crimes of schuchors in Bosnia and Herzegovina are being committed, a great Serbian historian, Vladimir Corovic, wrote in his black book. King Alexander, unfortunately, abolizes Austrian officers from the space of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy. There were no lawsuits against francs and Muslim schnookers. A large number of Ustasha criminals were unpunished after 1945, the natives were completely abolized and translated into Partisan ranks thanks to Joseph Broz's decision. Broz's crimes against Serbs unpunished after World War II, the issue of the Sremski front, Goli Otok, mass-motion in 1971, when many Serbs had to move out of Croatia. A clean Croatian state was already created. The Serbian state failed to carry out the 1990-1991 court proceedings, which the communist state of the SFRY was concealing and abolising on behalf of the Serb people. Finally, the 1991-1995 civil war; before Srebrenica and 1995 only in the area of Srebrenica and Sarajevo in Bosnia and Herzegovina, more than 8,500 Serbs were killed, in fact, in this area around Sarajevo and Srebrenica. More than 700,000 Serbs escaped from Socialist Croatia from 1990 to 1995, but also a good number of Croats, mostly from mixed marriages, and Croats who were not loyal to one Ustasha Tudjman regime. From the point of view of international law, the violently established state-of-law situation in Croatia is completely illegal. The war ended with the criminal occupation of Republika Srpska, a UN-protected state, should not be forgotten, without holding a peace conference that would at least guarantee a minimum of Western Serb national rights. Croatia has been rewarded for its crimes, killings and persecution by international legalisation by the force established by the great Croats on the Serbian country. To remind us of a recent U.S. position on the Armenian genocide in 1915: the neoliberal America today calls Turkey because of the crimes of genocide against Armenians; so the genocide crime does not go out of date. The crime was committed by Ataturk's lay and secular Turkey. Turkey's turn from liberalism to fundamentalism has caused US intervention. One day, I guess the U.S. will... Mr. Yellow... )......................................................................................................... Here, a few seconds just... I guess I also call the pseudoiberal Croatia for genocide crimes during the 20th century. I would ask Mr. Minister to answer this question. In the previous answers of other ministers, not you, I had purely bureaucratic answers that did not rely on the essence of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9664	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi appeared, and then MP Petar Jojic, and then MP Vjerica Radet, Nemanja Sarovic, Ivica Dacic, and I really think it's time to start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9665	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 104, I will present the following. Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic on 26 October, asking Minister Jocic's question, used the parliament's pay phone to make unwarranted accusations at the expense of the president of the Medvedje Assembly, and above all at the expense of the Albanian Nationality Council in this municipality. In particular, it is an incorrect claim on the threats reportedly made by Albanian lawmakers to the councils and even to the Serb people. It has gone so far that certain discussions in the Medvedje Assembly without any argument are linked to an attack carried out on Goran Simic of Medvedje. It is very harmful that MP Vasiljevic predicates the guilty Nazim Muratovic and Burim Jaha, against whom an investigation is being conducted, it is a matter of investigative authorities, and does not mention at all the heavy physical harassment of Taik Hajdari in police treatment related to this incident. They falsely accuse Muratovici of physically assaulting the owner of STR on October 24th in Medvedja, without anyone living in Medvedja knowing about this incident. On the other hand, Mr Vasiljevic does not tell us that Muratovici from Grbavac reported two months ago to the police Ratko Stosic of Ravna Banja over an armed attack on them, without police and judicial posts doing anything about it. In the event of a physical attack on Halil Ademovic at his store in Sijarinjska Banja, an attacker of Serbian nationality was sentenced with only ten days in prison. On the other hand, Fitim Saiti was fined 30 days for a bar fight. In general, an MP from Belgrade, Mr Vasiljevic, accepts the role of local political opponents of the president of the Medvedje municipality, while using an anti-Albanian map, as certain political parties, led by the current government in the bar, cannot forgive President Medvedje for having a number of votes by Albanians. Not that it was crucial. That's why I think here, in a situation where there are fewer than 700 Albanians left in the Bear of 5,500 Albanians in 1981, it is necessary to be careful because there is no such minority, a double minority, to put pressure on the majority, and in Medvedja, as well as throughout the country. With a performance like this, as we just saw for the Bujanovac MP, which is 400 km away... (President: Thank you, Mr. Halimi, your time is up.) )......................................................................................................... gives incorrect information on events in these municipalities. These are arbitrary, incorrect information, which has a harmful impact on events in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9666	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have learned that in the Police Department or the station in Ruma in the last few years, absolutely illegal counterlaw and beating of citizens, and even those who give no resistance to anyone, let alone the police. I'll introduce you, Krnetić Gojko, who was beaten in July 2004, to see what a man had experienced and where he ended up, being beaten by police officers from Ruma, who are allegedly being prosecuted, but the procedure has not been completed for four years. In that procedure, the judge changes. A man comes to trial, there's no room for a needle to stab him where he's not beaten and there's no blood spills. I don't have a chance, for a short period of time, to inform you about it. Namely, it is that two police officers, Mrdalj Zorana and Romic Gavril, members of the Ruma Police Station, are being charged, and it is not an indictment, and it is because of the abuse in the service. But in four years, they can't bring them in to go to court and prove their innocence and their guilt because they've inflicted major and severe physical injuries, which didn't go through any criminal or criminal records, and no one in their life has been resented. The second case was published in the paper. He says, "Bats and threats, get out of town. Police beat up another innocent and innocent citizen in Ruma. "Pres" published on February 2, 2007, he said, "Although I did not resist, I got a terrible beating," Cerovac said. You see, the man got two bone fractures, and he didn't do anything wrong; he didn't commit a crime, he didn't commit murder, he didn't attempt robbery, he didn't attempt assault on the police, he didn't attempt assault on anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm linking this to a scandal and violence committed by the police department and a police station in Ruma, so I'm asking a question for Mr. Minister, I hope he respects the law, and he'll order that this case, which has happened in Ruma lately, be reconsidered. And as for SO Rum, to examine the exact details of who the police sergeant is there, i.e. Who's the chief or who's the commander, how many cops were involved and on what legal basis? Since I haven't been able to, I have one more question, since Mr. Minister is here, and it's the Justice Department, Mr. President, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9668	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9669	Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." I am obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to quote a member I advertise, but I did this, first of all, for the public, and for the sake of the ignorant MPs. Because of the public, not to give the impression that the SRS MPs are in any way trying to slow down the work of this parliament, and because of the MPs, who have been making claims here that we are asking parliamentary questions. I once said that, Mr. Dulic, you've accepted that since you've been President of Parliament, we've never had that last point, the Rules of Procedure, for parliamentary matters. What we communicate with the present minister in this way, and otherwise to ministers present at the assembly sessions, has nothing to do with parliamentary issues. This is strictly under Article 226. It fascinates me every time one of the MPs tries to play the spokesman of a ministry or a minister himself. I know Mr Petrovic, and I know that a man can defend himself perfectly, that is, there is no need to defend himself, but in this case just to explain some things. I believe that neither you, Mr. Minister, agree that any of the MPs who elected you as minister -- however, you chose to be yourself, remember that you voted first to be minister, as MP, and in the next second become minister -- intervened in this way, and especially not to say "leave it to the end, so let us ask you any questions you want". Gentlemen, you have nothing to allow us to do, we do our job, I expect the minister to do the same. The colleague, who would allow us to speak, said Minister Petrovic is not only the DS minister, but is the minister of all Serbian citizens. Are you, Mr. Minister, Minister and Emir Shisic? If so, tell us what you are from the place where you work, from the function you perform, that Emir Šisic, when he came to Serbia, is released from parole, or what did you do not let go? Who and why has asked for the consent of Italian authorities to release Emir Šisic, because in every normal state, a man like Emir Šisic would be awarded the highest medals, one in Serbia's prison chama? If you'll excuse me, Mr. Dulic, given my quote, I only have two sentences to ask Mr. Secretary or to call again?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9670	Here, finish what you've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9671	Last night, I was listening to DS representatives on two televisions. Asking whether and at what stage the laws necessary to call presidential elections are, DS spokesman in Novi Sad says on TV: "All laws have been adopted in the government". They've been traveling for a long time from the government to the Assembly. I thought it might be so, it's a traffic jam or I don't know what it is. On the other television, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija and Mr. Aligrudic say these laws are in the procedure in the government, that they have not passed the government yet, but that they can pass in 20 minutes, it seems to me that Aligrudic has said so in no way. The question, Mr. Minister, to you as a member of the Government - is it true what the spokesman of the DS said that all these laws in the government were adopted and that they set out to walk to the Assembly, or is it true what Nada Kolundžija and Milos Aligrudic said that these laws in the Government had not yet been discussed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9672	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9673	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, so there will be no confusion and we won't blame each other. So you know it's very difficult, since I'm the chairman of this committee, on behalf of the opposition, and most of them are representatives of the ruling parties, to coordinate the terms for holding all these sessions. The session was moved from last Thursday to tomorrow, Thursday, November 1st. It was originally scheduled at 12:00. Based on the demands of the MPs and on the practice of the previous meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, when the session was scheduled at 11.00 p.m., and out of the desire that the sittings may be attended by MPs who participate and in the work of the Assembly, this time I moved that session from 12:00 to 14.00 p.m., means at the time when the breaks begin. The only thing remains as a problem is the issue of the very report on the work of the Security Information Agency and the state of security in the Republic of Serbia that bears the designation of state secrets. Given that the Service of the Defence and Security Committee is located in another building, the House building, the so-called National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, means Monday, and all MPs have been informed of this, from 29th, it was possible to look at the report there, because it is not possible to take it out of the premises, or from those rooms marked where it can be seen. I would pray, since the National Assembly session is under way, given what Ms. Natasa Jovanovic was saying, that, possibly during today and tomorrow morning, I would ask the President of the National Assembly and the Secretary, to determine one office here in this building where MPs could look at this report, so that they really wouldn't have to go to another building, given that there are probably a lot of MPs, members of the Defence and Security Committee, who have not yet seen and considered, have read the report, and that should be discussed tomorrow. So, the session was postponed from last week to tomorrow and will be held at 1400 hours, precisely because MPs could participate in the work of that session, and I really ask the appropriate authorities to allow it not to go to another building, but that perhaps during today or tomorrow until 14:00 MPs can read the report in this building, given that it bears the mark of state secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9674	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic and then MP Zeljko Vasiljevic and Predrag Stosic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the Republic Public Prosecutor: is it true that Josimović Zivko, the municipality's public prosecutor in Ruma, has been suspended, and that in the history of the judiciary, this case of his distance from Ruma and the suspension has been seduced, no less, than under the business number strictly pov. Two-one-one-seven? I haven't had this in my practice until now in the court and the prosecution, when proceedings for suspension or disciplinary proceedings are conducted, the case is subject to strict review. I'm counting. Secondly, I am also asking the Republic Public Prosecutor to carry out the check and to answer is it true that against the son of the district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, the municipal prosecutor who was suspended, Josimovic Zivko, has filed charges, and that the son of the district attorney is suspected of a crime committed within that 'road mob' affair on charges? Is that true, please, it is in the interest of all MPs and the public, that the expert public knows, is it true that the prosecutor's son has been charged, that he has been brought up by a suspended prosecutor and that he has been suspended afterwards? I believe that the Republic Public Prosecutor, who performs his duty, because in some things it's objective lately, at least the means of public information have been written, will take appropriate measures for the illegality and violation of the rules of the individual in the judiciary. That's why I'm asking for an answer, is this true? I got this decision here to resolve and initiate a disciplinary procedure, even an executive procedure to ban him from entering the Public Prosecutor's Office. Another question for Mr. Justice Minister, since he is in favour of representing constitutionality and legality that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, together with the Supreme Court Supervisory Board, check under what conditions and how the beating of Krnetić Gojk from Vognje was done and why the criminal proceedings against police officers who have beaten and inflicted serious physical injuries to this person, Mrdalj Zorana, police officer, and Romić Gavril, are being conducted for so long and that they cannot be brought to justice. It's number K 735/04. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9676	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word and then the People's Messenger Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I really apologize, but I can't stay here without answering Mr. Riza Halimi's words that he said here and who tried to dissuade everything I've done, and in the interest of the Serbs from the bear who are threatened by a certain group of Albanians who at least have criminal records. Here's the thing. Right away, Mr. Halimi, as president of the Veterans of Serbia movement and as a member of the SPS parliamentary group, I am really proud to be a spokesperson for the Serbs from the Medvedje municipality, especially those who feel threatened by individuals of Albanian nationality. Be assured that I will always be proud of it and that these people in me will always find a spokesman, or man who will bring out all their problems from this booth. Whether the state authorities of this country, above all, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, will act on it, is already beyond my jurisdiction and my authority, but I hope that they will examine everything that is involved. I must say that in my speech, not once but more in the previous period, I only mentioned the names of those Serbs who were killed by Albanian, I will not say that they are separatists, terrorists and that, but by Albanian faces. You said here that I said that two Albanians were detained, that I had convicted them in advance. Believe me, Mr. Halimi, I had no intention of saying what kind of punishment they'd get, where they'd get it, but just to say that they did some serious physical harm to a Serb, and now you're bringing me some other stuff here. One more thing to tell you, I've never brought this to the field of politics in my speeches, and that speech that the Serbian president of the municipality wrote to you, so you weren't quite ready to read it well, that's proof that someone else wants what I was saying, in order to defend the interests of the Serbian people, to bring it to the policy field. This really has nothing to do with politics. And whether Mr. Draskovic became the president of the municipality with the votes of 800 Albanians and whether he owes them something now, so he is working to protect these Albanians, misusing state institutions, that is what you must do in the Medvedje municipality to resolve. Mr. Draskovic, by inviting you to be his spokeswoman, has put yourself in a position to attack him now, even though he is a Serb, even though it was never my wish. Another piece of information you presented here that is not true, which is about the number of Albanians in Medvedja. All the Medvedje Serbs confirmed to me that the last list of Albanians was misused, that you listed those who did not live in Medvedja, that there were significantly more family members than there are, only to show that there are more Albanians in Medvedja than there are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9678	The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 226 and requesting a notice from Minister Petrovic and the police minister, Jocic. As far as Petrovic is concerned, I would like to repeat the question asked by Nemanja Sarovic and whether we will hear the oral answer on the subject, since we have the right to hear the oral answer as well. And the deputy police officer's question about the outbreak of Wahhabi in the Bujanovac area. So, since I am from these areas and I often stay in the Bujanovac municipality, I personally became convinced that the Wahhabis in those areas are present, and they create concerns for both the Serb population and the population of Albanian nationality. They're all upset by their appearance. The question is, who's funding them? Since they've been present since a few months ago, since we know that the Wahhabi are connected and their connection to Al-Qaeda has been established and that it's a terrorist organization, I wonder why they're present at these premises down there, where organisations are going to carry out their activities? That's what I'd like to ask the minister of police to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9680	Thank you. Mr. Halimi, of course, you're right, but I'm asking you not to challenge your wording in the Rules of Procedure right now. Come on, guys, really get that problem out of this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9681	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I had to do it again, since a series of inaccuracies was made a little bit in both final discussions. Namely, I provided information on 5,500 Albanians in the Medvedje municipality of 1981. I said that of that number, which was officially published in all books, there are currently less than 700. Here we hear a story about some fake list that the state has made again. Really without arguments is questioning the dignity of this home. Let's move on, I've been in politics for at least 30 years, and I've never had a chance to get someone to write me a speech before. I specifically said it was the incorrect data that he received by fax, or Mr Vasiljevic or one of the other MPs, from the field, because they are not present and do not know what is going on. I absolutely reacted against the fact that the Muratovic family cannot be declared terrorist in advance, which is the term it used on October 26th for this speaker Mr Vasiljevic. That's why I said he didn't have the right before the trial to find them guilty first, let alone declare them terrorist. That's what I was talking about, not the fact that now on the political ground he wanted to transfer this thing to Mr. Vasiljevic. So it's about the fact that we actually have the completion of ethnic cleansing in Medvedja, because there are less than 700 Albanians left in that municipality, and there's no talking about integration, about state authorities, except seven or eight police officers in the local multiethnic police force. There are no Albanians in all other state bodies, and that is what we are talking about. Instead of implementing one of the most important lenses of the 2001 government programme on the integration of Albanians into the social and state system, and we do not have in this municipality except through the OSCE project achieved, multiethnic police, no Albanian in any state institution. (President: Thank you. This is what it's all about. Around Wahhabi; why does anyone see Wahhabi from here when I don't see them there and what are the arguments that in Preshevo, Bujanovac, bring, bring, which... Mr. Halimi, you're out of time. )......................................................................................................... What act, what act was done to bring this out for the pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9682	I suggest you, Mr. Stosic, tomorrow is the Security Committee, so let's ask Bia a question about Wahhabi. It's the right address where you can ask a question. So, reading the BIA report will be today from 12:00 in room 23, in King Milan 16, so it's a building next to this one, you don't have to go to the House of the National Assembly. The word has a People's MP, come on, go ahead, but you asked the Minister why you're replicating now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9683	I was just looking for a replica. My exposure was mentioned. Mr. Riza, I don't know how long you've been staying in the Bujanovac municipality, so I'm asking you to come along, so I'm going to show you the Wahhabi presence in those areas. They are upset, noting, both Albanians and Serbs in those areas. As for integration, take care of the integration of Serbs in the Bujanovac municipality. Stay the same for you, and for the Serbs. So much for that. As far as Wahhabi is concerned, we have pictures, we even heard that they took one mosque under their wing and that they were doing some instructions for further operation, that they were paid from 400 to 450 euros without working anywhere. Who? I don't know, I guess BIA's gonna find out and test it. I invite you to go together. By the way, I'd like to welcome your will and your oral support for Dr. Vojislav Seselj's trial being delivered publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9684	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9685	Ladies and gentlemen, since the president is obviously upset, he didn't say that I was the applicant for the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9686	Mrs. Radeta, just for the record, so I read it at the beginning, now I'm going to do it again. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. But it was read at first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9687	So, Mr. Dullich, you don't need to be nervous, you're a young man, you keep your nerves, for two or three days I've just been worried about you. Why did I insist on reading the law? Because there is also a minister present here, and Vladimir Vukcevic, and Bruno Vekaric and everyone from the state and state authorities when they talk about this law say, the law on flocks. That is what we are trying to explain to you, that is, to explain to the public Serbia in the principle debate, and of course today we are going through these submitted amendments. This bill, submitted by the government, has three members, and this is one of those cases where the SRS thinks this law cannot be found in legal traffic in Serbia. Therefore, our amendments are individually to delete all three members, or one by one, because this is the only business opportunity for us to express our position on this law. In the light of the amendments I have submitted, it is normal for the amendment to comply with the SRS position. The proposed solution referred to in Article 1. The bill is contained in the Criminal Code, and it is unacceptable to explain the proposings, and we have it in the light of the law that the Criminal Code is more effectively implemented in specialised war crimes bodies. This is really amazing and you said it here, Mr. Minister, when we spoke in principle debate. So, how do you evaluate these specialized organs, how did you evaluate the people you brought into these, what you call, specialized organs. That's also the topic we need to talk about here, and that's what we're going to talk about. It is precisely because of the fact that this law has only three amendments, or three members, that we have used and we will use the Rules of Procedure, because this is the topic that needs to be heard in Serbia. The obvious intention of the proponent, or government of Vojislav Kostunica, is to implement the bill by means of a tribunal of the Serbian judiciary. We from the SRS, and especially us who are on the team that helps prepare our president's defence against The Hague tribunal, know perfectly well, thanks to us, the whole of Serbia, which violates all human rights in The Hague. I remind you that Vojislav Seselj has been imprisoned for five years in this anti-Serbian so-called "Serb". The court, that the trial is announced only after nearly five years for November 7th. The prosecution is absolutely not ready for that trial. The fact is that the first witnesses will only be heard on December 4th. Unlike the prosecutor's office, Vojislav Seselj was ready to face The Hague tribunal on February 24, 2003, when he went to The Hague tribunal voluntarily, he did not teach anyone how your media like to say, but bought a ticket to his money, went there, until today's day they didn't even refund the costs of that plane ticket to The Hague. So we know that human rights are being violated there and we know what the local government is doing, what the DOS regime is doing to make life worse for Serbs trapped in The Hague tribunal and that, while adding Carly del Ponte, they would allegedly find some evidence here that could serve The Hague tribunal against the Serbs who are there, and that they were most encroached on Vojislav Seselj, which, of course, is not an accident. We all know, the whole of Serbia knows that Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague because the indictment was written against him by Zoran Djindjic, Goran Svilanovic and Nebojsa Covic. It's no longer a secret. It wasn't because we've been saying it since day one. Vojislav Seselj had to get that indictment. They asked Carla del Ponte to sign it. They promised to provide her with evidence because she claimed there was no evidence against Vojislav Seselj, because that Vojislav Seselj had been in Serbia for the past five years would have been different. Regardless of the fact that Tomislav Nikolic is a great leader of the SRS, that we have a growing and better election result in each election, that the party is increasing from day to day, the charisma of Vojislav Seselj is what Serbia needs and what will finally, of course, lead Serbia to the right path, because the DOS regime has led us to the bottom. Why is this and on what grounds do I claim all this? I just don't know, I'm looking at everything for an hour, there's no way I can make it in 15 minutes to tell you everything that needs to be said about this amendment, about this law, about the Serbian government's relationship to Serbian citizens. I've never heard you, Minister, react to a fact that nonsensus is right on the globe, that someone like Natasa Kandic can represent damaged in some court proceedings, that it can do so as a humanitarian law fund as a legal person. I assume you were a lawyer, you know that both the defense attorney and the defendant of the damaged must be lawyers. Some lawyers in Serbia have responded to this, but neither you nor the previous minister, nor the Supreme Court president, nor these specialties of yours are judges, and the specials are only because they serve you and you pay them three times, and then you have reduced them to twice as much as the rest of their colleagues, who can certainly do this job better and more honorable than they are. I asked on a show by Natasa Kandic exactly what I'm asking you, so she explained how the humanitarian law fund has some team of young lawyers that they hire to satisfy the form, they say they hire some young lawyers who do it for them, and she's only here to show the court council - but keep an eye on what verdict you'll make behind me, Natasa Kandic stands the United States, stands Soros, you have to listen to me; and your specials listen to her. Then Natasa Kandic gave me the creamworth to ask her something that I will now inform you and the citizens of Serbia. I reminded her and did not deny her, she confirmed that in 1999 her humanitarian rights fund was represented, you remember those, whether it was 140-150 Shipara, who were convicted by law, and then Vojislav Kostunica generously freed, and now probably all or most of the members of the ANA terrorist organisation. And then Natasa Kandic in the United States for the organization of this defence provided millions of marks. The lawyers from Serbia she hired in the process gave, we know, a total of 50,000 marks. We assume she also gave the Shiptarian lawyers 50,000 marks. Natasha Kandic has only 900,000 marks left. Now, that's how Natasa Kandic burns and burns today in the special prosecutor's office. Because of such Natasa Kandic, we today pass the law, as the authorities say about the flocks. It is the law of the flocks because you have not found enough obedient judges, among these normal judges, to judge Jovi Djogi and the others you have declared the flocks. Probably, as we can see yesterday, Ratko Mladic's flock is his own son. Very interesting your theory. Here I have an interview with this unfortunate Vukčević, who has succumbed so much to the influence of Natasha Kandic and Carla del Ponte, that the poor man no longer knows what he's saying. The press is asking him what he expects of the Ovcar case. He says -- I expect a verdict in the retrial by the end of the year; now after the first-degree verdict of the Vukovar Troika before The Hague tribunal, I am pleased to conclude that everything that before the District Court's War Crimes Council in Belgrade has been disseminating in the process, as regards the role of Sljivancanin, Mrksic and Radic, has become a very important piece of evidence to the tribunal in The Hague. So that's the essence of conducting the procedure in Belgrade. Furthermore, Vukcevic is asking if he had any threats. He says there were -- there were -- and there are them every day. From who? He says threatening letters have arrived from abroad, and lately verbal daily attacks have come from the MPs of the SRS in Parliament. Well, Mr. Vukcevic, being a thief, a criminal, who has sold his soul and trying to sell Serbs, we will never hide it from the citizens of Serbia, you are, if you see this as a threat, you may not be too late to get rid of it all. We are not threatening you, we are threatening you with the rule of law one day and we are threatening that a colleague, some of your future who will be, will not be any specialty, but a normal prosecutor, because of all of this you are doing to the people of Serbia, will put you on long-term imprisonment, Mr. Vukcevic. It's a threat from the Serbian Radical Party. Furthermore, were there any pressures on your work by international representatives? He says it wasn't, but again I point out that we've been making very useful suggestions, even getting help from the FBI, and together we're trying to expose war crimes perpetrators against the Being Brothers, one embassy helping us find witnesses to an important case, which is still at the stage of the investigation, so I can't tell you what it is. That one embassy is the American embassy. Only Serbian radicals are not afraid to say that. How does co-operation with the prosecution in the region work? This is very interesting. "I can say that co-operation has progressed greatly. At the beginning of this month, we met again in Hvar, considering how we would work together in the framework of the Hague tribunal's exit strategy, or when cases from The Hague are, as I say, the subject of our regional co-operation. This is nothing new to us, because we co-operated with the state's attorney's office of Croatia very successfully in the beginning of 2004 in the Ovcar case, and in 2005 with the BiH prosecution in the Zvornik case. When it comes to an agreement with Croatia, the Memorandum of Co-operation with BiH, it is a lower formal level of co-operation, because we have not yet signed agreements with them on giving evidence, but that is why we have a joint investigative team as in the Zvornik case, and together we are working on the Tuzla column case, as well as many others. ''Don't answer Mr. Vukcevic as much as he received data from the BiH prosecutor's office, as he says from Croatia, who is condemned by our special forces in absentia, and is not a member of the Serb people, and why Serbs arrest each step based on the rulings made in absentia, why this Vukcevic raises a new procedure, some Zvornik 3, so called, by order, literally writing a warrant, some Mirsade, which I forgot, which the prosecutor of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla. Why isn't this gentleman a little concerned with the crimes committed against the Serb people? Why don't we have a pandan to say - gentlemen, we also have sentences against 50,000 members who have committed war crimes against Serbs, so that we can see if you will arrest any Serb who crosses Serbia's border, because no longer known, whoever was carrying the rifle in these last wars on target is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia. It goes on - we are most successful in co-operation with the state's attorneyship of Croatia. Just look at the objects of the Sheepman through Laura, Lovas, Osijek. I'm asking him now -- why he didn't let the witnesses for Laura go safely to Split to testify. Of course, he wasn't even trying, and he didn't. I will ask later, now to point out, that only Judge Gordani Bozilovic-Petrovic has expired, and the other specialists have not. I'm going to keep up with the Rules of Procedure, because there's so much we have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9688	People's MP Riza Halimi reportedly, followed by MP Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then possibly Rajko Baralic on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9689	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to use the right of Article 226 to ask Minister Petrovic what he will do to improve the ethnic structure of the judicial authorities in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, especially in Bujanovac, since there is only one Albanian in Bujanovac, eight judges of the municipal court, and in the municipal public prosecutor's office of 10 workers there is only one Albanian? Of course, it needs similar activities in Presevo, where the situation is better than in Bujanovac, but it probably takes a lot more to do in Presevo, and I just said about Medvedja that the situation is catastrophic. What's left of time to say is only in relation to the previous speech of Mrs. Verita's hatred towards Albanians or Shiptars, which is really becoming unbearable here. Incidentally, Mrs. Radeta, a professor of mathematics, Camila Hadji Beqiri, I know him from the student days, I know him from family contacts, a man in his life has never been trampled by an ant, never held a rifle in his hands, and the man was in prison in Nis, and he was hired by the Human Affairs Forum from Belgrade, because the entire street in Djakovica was closed and sent to Serbia at the same time. People of God, when dead people were transferred to Serbia after killing, what to say about the living who at the time were picked up on the street of Djakovica and absolutely without any argument at the time were punished. The professor of mathematics, who has never had a relationship with the war, which has absolutely nothing to do with the ANA, or any other armed group, absolutely this way to classify all Albanians or Shipar on the basis of not offensive, but the mood of hate in this way further, is really unsustainable. He really doesn't talk about how we can talk about some co-existence, when with this kind of hate and in this House we talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9690	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and then Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9691	I just want because of everything Mr. Halimi has been saying here that, too, since he is asking the question of the Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I would ask him some questions. It is related to something that concerns me, which seems to be constantly happening in three municipalities in southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Medvedje and Presevo, which is that it is a constant tendency for these three municipalities to be related to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Mr. Halimi, neither will Kosovo be independent, will remain in the membership of the Republic of Serbia, as the Constitution says, according to which you as a MP must work, you must stand up for this constitution and respect it. I've already warned you about that several times from this pay phone. I think there is still a spokesman downstairs for the secession of not only Kosovo, but also those three municipalities from the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to ask you -- do you know where the village of Wrath is at Tetov, have you ever been there or heard of that village? You weren't. Do you know what's out there? Have you heard of Ljirmi Jakupi, his nickname is Nazi? I'll ask you if you've heard of Chief Musliu, who's in Dubrava Prison? Have you ever spoken to him? Were you in Kosovo and Metohija 45 days ago, who you were with and what you were talking to there? I'll tell you what these two men do. They're setting up a fund-raiser for the so-called. The army or the Liberation Army, what they call themselves, as Mr. Halimi says, the Presevo Valley, which does not exist, but the municipalities, for their armies for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Do you know that money is being raised for such a terrorist organization? I don't want to ask him if he gave it, he's an MP of the Republic of Serbia at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he needs to give information from that territory, does he know, I ask you; do you know that money is being raised to restore such a terrorist organisation? Never will terror and violence defeat justice and justice. They'll never beat the Constitution, and whoever gets hold of it will lose. This is a democratic state, which has a democratically elected parliament, a democratically elected government, a democratically elected president. You can't beat her with terror and violence, whoever's behind these people. The state of Serbia, I assure you, is keeping an eye on everything that is happening in these municipalities and especially what is happening in the Medvedja municipality. Also, we're keeping an eye on all those who've been making a pact with separatists for maintenance in the local government. The fact that someone is seeking demilitarization, you have to understand that demilitarisation means less armies in a certain territory. And you can't attack the police, which protects all citizens, regardless of their belongings. You can't protect them, let's not call them criminals, but let's just say they're under investigation, from the police, and Gendarmeria is an integral part of the police, and that's not demilitarization. Gendarmes is an integral part of the police. Such units have all the police in the world. Therefore, be assured that the state of Serbia will protect all citizens in the territory of the entire republic, regardless of nationality, especially in those three municipalities, and that we will not allow terrorist units to form, regardless of who raises money to rearm them, etc. Veterans. I repeat the question to you: do you know who Ljirmi Jakupi is, do you know who Schefcet Musliu is, did you have contact with him and do you know if in Kosovo and those three municipalities are collecting money to rearm and form such a terrorist unit? Simply another argument more, gentlemen - state, national and political unity is now the most needed thing. We must be unique. When we're unique, the ones who want us bad, they can't hurt us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9692	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9693	Thank you. I'm not going to be too long on what Riza Halimi was saying here. That's his opinion. This parliament is only proof, Mr. Halimi, of how democratic Serbia is when you can come out here and that in the most cruel way possible, not only now but otherwise, you are making counter-constitutional views. But that's what some other organs will do someday. You mentioned some highly educated people here who didn't even crush an ant. I don't know who trampled on the ants, but I trust the judges who made 140 judicial sentences in 1999 condemned 140 Shipara for crimes against the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. We resent, and we will never forgive, Vojislav Kostunica for letting that group go, to be courted at the same time as those who are courted by Natasa Kandic. The fact is, whether you like it or not to hear it, that the Ship's lobbyists are funding, unfortunately in Serbia and Serbia, the advocates of independent Kosovo, are doing it all over the world. It is something Serbia is facing today, but I am convinced that Serbia will deal with it, because most Serbian citizens and most political parties, regardless of other differences, will not allow the self-proclaiming of Kosovo to be strengthened. Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia, an integral part of Serbia and will always stay that way, whether someone likes it or not. To take advantage of this minute, as far as I have left, to warn the public of what I was just saying, and to Judge Gordan Bozilović-Petrovic, who was the only one who stopped his term in the Special Court. Everyone else continued to judge. She was the only one who did not allow Serbia to plead guilty to the crimes of members of the Scorpio unit, which was the intention of Natasha Kandic, that was Sam Lazar's intention, which is the intention of this Patrick Lopez and this Zdrlic. It's these two who represent The Hague tribunal. This Zdrlic is otherwise the son of Ustasha, who are here these days harassing and seeking false witnesses in Serbia against Vojislav Seselj. Mrs. Bozilovic is no longer a judge because the president of Belgrade's District Court, Sinisa Okic, is obliged to listen to Natasa Kandic and US representatives, because she drinks coffee with the US ambassador every morning. I would ask you, Minister, if you have information and knowledge from whom Okic has received three apartments, from whom he has received three very favourable loans, in a very voluntary way and what have you, as a minister and as a member of the High Council of Justice, done and learned specifically about the case of Judge Gordana Bozilović-Peterovic, who, we argue, stopped working in that Special Court just because she was not at the will of Natasa Kandić and the US Ambassador? I repeat, it is because the woman refused to find Serbia guilty of some war crimes of some concrete persons. Of course, I don't even claim that war crimes existed, or that those persons committed it, because there is no judicial judgment. Unlike the authorities, I know that until the verdict becomes legal, everyone is innocent and I expect you to treat everyone like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9694	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, Dr Vladan Batic, reported the replica probably Riza Halimi. Then we return, I hope, to the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9695	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for facts some may have forgotten. Obviously and exclusively forgot about Mr. Halimi. Mr. Halimi, don't pretend to be ignorant and replace the thesis. Radeta's colleague, while you were at the pay phone, had an urgent job to do with counterpart Radovanovic, to hand over some documentation for preparing a delegation travelling to Portugal from the Justice Committee, and she did not listen to you very carefully. So, you're completely out of context, twisted, which is what the Serbs would tell me, her words, because she didn't put everything in the same basket at all, as you said, Shipar or Albanians. It is likely that Mr. Vladan Batic will report, as he has been known to insist, even though he was a member of the DOS when Kostunica released Fjor Brovina and more than 1,200 Shipatarian terrorists, for years to track down where they are and to carry out these strong verdicts against them, who are now missing, who knows where they are, are making and preparing a new attack, these same terrorists, on Serbs. They're getting ready, as these two terrorists from the so-called so-called. ANE to the press "Sanda" and "The Times" that they're armed to their teeth and they're just waiting for December 10th. Don't deceive the public. I don't care about anyone in this congregation, who you've studied with and whether he's good or bad, and what he thinks he is. The legal verdict of the Serbian state is that this acquaintance of yours, I don't know what he's called, a math teacher from Đakovica, is a convicted terrorist. Agim Ceku is a schooled officer who served in JNA, but the slayer and murderer of Serbian children and non-strongers, and the Serb murderers in Kosovo and Metohija, Ramush Haradinaj, also has a higher education. It is not a question of whether it is a plumber, a postman or what it is, and what it will do after working time, it is a professor of the university, but a question of whether it has been proven and whether a judicial verdict has established that someone has committed a terrorist act against the Serb people. That's what Mrs. Radeta was talking about, not there, about some people who were nice, good and honest, so they grew up in that neighborhood and went to school and you knew each other in your youth. What do we care? For us, the only thing that they did is measure when they took arms in hand and how they attacked the Serb enemy and committed acts of terrorism. It's not just some bullshit story, you know. The fact that the DOS government released them after October 5th, it's a scandal and it's something that neither the people who worked in the judiciary nor the investigative judges who proved the crimes of these terrorists are coping with. I should remind you of the role of one brave woman from the Serbian judiciary, Danica Marinkovic, who, for days after that, presented evidence as an investigative judge on the terrorist acts of these villains, including some of those 146. Therefore, the matter is simple for those who respect the constitution and the laws of this country. He who has been proven to have committed terrorist acts is a terrorist, and whoever did this is Vojislav Kostunica, after October 5th, who released the villains, will be as a disgrace to remain recorded in the history of the Serbian people. And worst of all, Serbian residents, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are likely to be at risk in the coming days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9696	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Vladan Batic. Then Mr. Halimi's replica to Mr. Shormaz's exposure, and then perhaps Mr. Shormaz will give the replica to Mr. Halimi, and so on. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9697	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the discussion has gone in the wrong direction and I'm a little concerned that it doesn't turn out, and that it doesn't get that impression, that it's some kind of hack against the only Albanian MP in this House. It's just not good. It is not a very simple reason why we need a little more to deal with ourselves and what we as members of some other nationalities, particularly Serbian nationalities, do and do not, when it comes to protecting human rights and relations with national minorities. One simple question for the President of Parliament: does he know what space Mr. Riza Halimi is sitting in here in Parliament? In the elevator house. Is this the relationship between the majority people or the authorities, or those who are handling this parliament's work towards Mr. Riza Halima? Let's be honest. And if anyone else is watching, what kind of repercussion they're going to have. What, then, the relationship of the majority to one member of the national minority, perhaps not at will and what kind of reflections it will have. That's not good. Of course things should be called a real name and of course war crimes can't have a national omen. War crimes can't have a name and a last name. That's what I've been fighting for, and that's what I've experienced. Advocating that the accused were some KLA leaders, because they seemed to be the worst, terrible war crimes. I'm saying what I've been doing, gathering evidence, trying to prove that this is no fight for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo, but crime and terror. Some of them are charged. Haradinaj has been charged. I also claimed it for Ceku, but local police officers remembered and kept silent for years that they were war criminals or potential war criminals when they became prime ministers of Kosovo. It's a fake. The next question, often raised here in this house, is that some people or leaders of some parties visited unauthorizedly, without grounds it was claimed in this House, some people who were in custody in Central Prison. Then I ask the question, so how are some great patriots in important state functions, unauthorized visits and even giving orders to be released from custody and Fjore Brovin, and the Mazreka brothers, etc. Let's just put things in the same plane, and then ask ourselves what our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, those who dive or pour crocodile tears, and during that time are rich, do in Kosovo and Metohija. Let us ask ourselves whether some coordinators, our countrymen, some of the heads of the Kosovo and Metohija district, have become encumbered in crime, corruption, nepotism, conflict of interest. The people of our nation complain about them in Kosovo and Metohija. They fear Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's call things a real name, so we don't get Riza Halimi to blame. That's what I'm only appealing to, to see what's going on with these abuses of building roads without a tender, about building two buildings with no tender, about hijacking apartments for art professors, to get them and move in with members of the Mitrovica hospital security. (President: I thank Mr Batic. I'm done. About taking money from the Kosovo and Metohija budgets, here war criminals, etc. Let's be honest with ourselves and the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9698	I thank the People's MP Dr. Vladan Batic. The reply to the presentation of MP Dragan Shormaz has a National MP, Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9699	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only going to do it one more time and I won't do it again, but what I'm saying here is if the president of the state makes the right decision to improve the state's reputation in order to correct the shortcomings in the earlier processes that have disastrously affected this country's reputation in the world. Then this is how cheap it is to try to collect political points on such sensitive topics, I wouldn't go to qualifications, to say the least, it's really undesirable and it doesn't suit this home. Next, it's a good thing Fjore Brovin was mentioned. Isn't that proof again that the president of the state was right? Let's leave that friend I know familyly, whose wife had the darkest trouble of seeing her husband while he was in prison in Nis. If you knew just what kind of suffering she was making to visit her husband at that time, who in life, not a crime, but I say he didn't hurt any man in his life. I'm telling you, they're literally collected from the streets, because originally I know friends, people who've been experiencing it, if you want that side of the truth to listen. And Fjora Brovina is a doctor, and a poet, and she's been doing charity work her whole life, if anyone really cares about that information if they were missing. He is now a National MP in the Kosovo Parliament. You really should be a little more dignified about any man and any person talking about it, but not in this way, because that reflects the whole attitude towards the group, towards one collectiveity, towards one people. This is the culture or lack of that culture of living together in these areas. Can I breathe fresh air here and in Preshevo, what Mr. Shormaz allows me, or what's said for a moment, here's the honor, because it's my honor to participate here. In a sense, it's as if someone gave it to me, as if it depends on Mrs. Radete, or at all any of the MPs of the Radicals or the DSS. People of God, I don't see the difference between the party in power, the DSS MP, who's in power, and the radicals, who are in opposition. The other day, you boasted that you had annulled the privatisation, and you're in opposition. Where does that make sense? When it comes to Albanians or Shipari, then the opposition and position are absolutely the same, and according to the citizens who live here and participate in political life, they give everything that belongs to the citizens by law. So it's absolutely not accurate information that money is being collected in Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. I wanted to be that day, but I had no idea he was holding the Security Committee, otherwise I could contribute a little directly and we'd have more time at our disposal. So now there's a speaker coming out and it's giving out all the flat-rate information, it's not supporting them, and now it's supposed to be politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9700	I thank the People's MP, Riza Halimi. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta first appeared, and then Mr. Dragan Shormaz, a replica. I'm sorry, but we're gonna let Mrs. Radet go. She's still a lady. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9701	It's no problem, if anyone's heard from me before, you don't have to break the Rules of Procedure because of me. We have time and patience. What Mr Batic said was not good for this debate to turn into a hack against one MP, I certainly agree with that, and it is not the intention of the SRS MPs, not now or ever, to lead the hunt against anyone, especially not against members of the national minorities. National minority representatives know that they have protection in the SRS, that we have always fought and we will fight for their rights. I know about the problem of Mr Rajko Djuric's office, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic has sent serious reproach to the president of parliament from this place -- why Mr Rajko Đuric does not have the appropriate office. For the first time I've heard that Mr. Riza Halimi has, if you can call it the office, as you say, some elevator space or by the elevator, I don't know, it's really inadmissible. And here I am, joining your appeal and calling on Mr Oliver Dulic to, together with the services, find the right space and allow Mr. Riza Halimi to do his parliamentary work in the conditions in which the other MPs of this House do so. There's nothing controversial about it. But, Mr. Halimi, that you defend Fjore Brovina, though, you didn't mention the Mazreka brothers or these 146s that Kostunica let go, that's your right to defend them, we don't mind, but we can't afford not to blame Vojislav Kostunica for what he did then, and you too, Mr. Batic, because you've publicly advocated it, and it's an honor to you, but that, if we say that the Mazrek brothers are criminals, then it's certainly no attack on Riza Halimi. Mr. Halimi said I called all of the Shipare criminals. That's not true. I personally know and a friend of mine is Muharrem Ibray, an Albanian who doesn't mind being called Shiptar, from Nis, a man who formed a party at the time of what you think was impossible, at the time of the former, former government, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, his party is called an Albanian alternative. This Mr. Muharrem Ibraj of his brothers, the Shiptara, survived a terrible evil because he witnessed in The Hague proceedings against Slobodan Milosevic. Six family members were killed. He argues, he also claimed in The Hague, that it was the Shiptari, they killed his son, they killed his two brothers, they killed his nephew, the closest members of the family. So, in my dream, I wouldn't call all the Shiptars criminals. I call criminals those who are designated as such by law enforcement, and for others we wait for judgments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9702	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The word is by MP Dragan Shormaz, a replica of Mr. Riza Halimi's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9703	Mr. Halimi, you obviously didn't understand me. You are a good man and we know it, and you are a people's messenger here, and as a MP, not a DSS, but as a Serb, I will do everything to protect you. Everything. But now I'm telling you one thing, now I repeat one thing, a lot of the states of Serbia have strengthened since the period, let's say in 2000, when some of them sitting here were ministers. There's no more taking you down to the basement, no more threats, no more threats. As ambassadors, we alone will not protect you. You will be protected by the state of Serbia and protected by the state of Serbia. You don't raise money just for guns, Mr. Halimi. Maybe you don't know, you're a good and honest man, but I'm telling you that money is being raised and for bribing a guard to get Schecet Musli to get out of Dubrava Prison. This is what the state of Serbia knows and will not let that happen. You can be sure, not just you, we can all breathe more free air because of it. And here, if that's true, it's a shame the President of the Assembly didn't give you a better space. Until it allows you, I offer you office 82 on the third floor to use for whatever it takes. Another thing, in order not to be unclear, more than 60% of the total Albanian police composition, in Bujanovac, 52%, in Presevo, are 61% and in Medvedja more than 10%. I invite you to go see the official data, with names and last names. I'm telling you, 61%, 52% and over 10% in Bear. So, a multiethnic composition, where even two municipalities of more Albanians than Serbs are members of police units. You have every right to work as a Parliamentarian, to express your views, and we will fight for it. Let go of those who talk to each other, who didn't do anything at the time they were in power. You know very well who took whom to the basement and threatened, you know it best. Now I'm telling you, it's never gonna happen again and don't be scared. Chief Musley will stay where he belongs, in prison, be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9704	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. The reply to the presentation of Vjerica Radeta has a National MP, Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9705	I appealed not to be interpreted, what is being pronounced here, that it is a hack against the only MP of Albanian nationality. I wanted to draw attention to the responsibility of our people, our countrymen, our countrymen. While some kind of collection of money has already been mentioned, gentlemen, let us remember the time when Albanian separatism in Kosovo and Metohija erupted. Let's remember the authorities that made it possible at the time, remember that money, logistics, weapons came here, that the border was completely permeable, that nothing was done and that the then government or the then regime of Kosovo only remembered before the elections. Then Kosovo became a cradle, root, bottom of eye vision, etc. Remember the parallel institutions of the Kosovo Albanian, parliament and government authorities, Ramzi Kolgecija, Jusuf Zejnulahu. Remember the Kosovo government abroad. Then the state didn't do anything to stop it. Therefore, the primary responsibility lies on that time and on the people who then exercised power. That's one thing. Secondly, we need to ask ourselves whether for crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, in addition to what I mentioned and fought a real war with both Hekerup and Kushner and Steiner, asking that if The Hague has not already filed charges against some Albanians with KIM, and if Serbia cannot reach them to judge them, UNMIK will do so. That's recorded, there's a lot of evidence about it. We must also admit that some of our countrymen have committed crimes on our behalf and that Serbia cannot have a future if the foundations of this country are soaked with other people's blood. I'm using to ask Mr. Minister - is there any movement in the discovery of who is responsible for the Grand Petrovo Village, who is responsible for Batajnica? Are these brains, those minds that have scattered corpses in every river, lake or bar, that's a shame for our history, for our ancestors, who have died to make Serbia a state? Let's deal with our own responsibility. So that's all I've been appealing to, wanting to turn the discussion in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9706	We're going back to the amendment discussion. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9707	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to tell you, as someone who knows a lot of people who are accused, suspected, some and convicted of what they did during the war. I'm not saying everyone's innocent, I don't think so, because that's not true. Many of them are guilty, but I can say that some of them are innocent, many of them, only because of their participation in the armed forces, were killed and sentenced to long-term prisons. However, given that I was talking about this law in principle, I would not go back to some of the things that I said at the time, I would just like to meet the People's MPs about The Hague tribunal, because here they are constantly trying to connect and analogy the Hague Tribunal and the District Court's War Crimes Prosecutor. I would read you a text, to see what is the essence of The Hague justice, what is the essence of the war crimes trial, and how that relationship of the suspects, the defendants, and, worse still, is condemned, in which more than 85% of Serbs, 10% of Croats, 5% of Muslims, and almost none of the Albanians. This is a text from a foreign newspaper. He says, "I ask the prize question: how many Kosovars are in The Hague and how many were convicted after numerous massacres committed during the Serb-Albanian conflict in Kosovo? "So this foreign newspaper and foreign journalist admits that Albanians have committed numerous massacres against Serbs in Kosovo. "If I'm not mistaken, there's not one. Afterwards, Albanians are not as afraid as we Croatians are, are not as stingy as we are Croatians and, unlike us Croats, know both where and how to spend money and with as little money as possible to achieve the greatest effect. According to the story, a lot of confidential and always accurate sources, Kosovo's leadership has raised 10m euros from its diaspora and sent real negotiating cats to London, a world centre for legal and judicial swindling. There are several of the best lawyers' offices, who have in these and wise ways pulled all Albanians out of The Hague prison. Pristina, long before Zagreb, realized that The Hague's policy was being run from London. Does anyone today talk about Albanians as a criminal people, who burned Serbian houses, dropped bombs, and made a lot of participation in a new conflict that has taken many lives? Of course no one talks, and the cost was only 10m euros. Just because comparing hundreds of millions of euros, as much as Croatia's stupid policy has spent so far, better say thrown out the window, the 10 million is no amount. When I connected some strings, I realized why Ivan Cermak, after selling his firm, decided to hire the best English lawyers" etc. So, the essence of why Albanians are not responsible for the crimes they committed is in $10m or euros that they gave to famous lawyers in England. This is the essence of Hague justice. The point is that the state of Serbia has done nothing to protect its indictees and then convicts in The Hague tribunal. I'm sorry that we later remember everything we were supposed to do earlier. Could Serbs for 20 or 30m euros and by hiring the right people, the right lawyers, be absolutely innocent? Could one of those who had been killed in The Hague tribunal, someone who had received 47 years of imprisonment on the basis of command responsibility, have been saved and declared innocent of what was finally placed on him and for what he was convicted of? I ask a question that is not quite clear to me, but perhaps MPs will be able to agree with me and my thinking -- why are we now strengthening an institution that, by the logic of things, needs to move towards shutting down and disappearing, because war conflicts are over 15 or eight years ago, when the NATO Pact bombing and the murder of over 2,000 civilians in Serbia is over? The answer is very simple. So those who order to lead politics in Serbia simply said that Serbia must take over the institutions of The Hague tribunal, that is, because the UN tribunal is threatening to shut down in 2010. If that were the case, I will confirm to you by reading one text, which says, "The UN tribunal has already begun counting down. According to the Security Council's decision, it should close its doors by 2010. The public hearing of today's court officials, prosecutor Jeffrey Nyss and former spokeswoman Florence Artman, as well as the information provided by the prosecutor's office by journalists who witnessed the same prosecutor's office, only contributed to the impression that it was an institution of departure, in which the government had some degree of destruction. Perhaps the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon himself, before deciding at the end of December who will succeed Mrs. Del Ponte as chief prosecutor, will have to deal with the situation in the court or at least in the prosecutor's office." Gentlemen, I don't understand why we're doing this right now, are we still going to put pressure on those suspects, or perhaps false suspects, for what they did, because many of them didn't do it? Is the aim of all this to deprive the Serb people of the right to defend themselves? Is the goal of sending a clear message to every patriot, who tomorrow wants to defend the interests of his people and his country, that, no matter what he's done, he can always, no matter what he's done, find himself, under command responsibility, responsible for something he may not even know was happening in the war crimes zone? I hope that Mr. General Delic, whom I consider to be an extraordinary warrior and an extraordinary commander, will get involved in this story and tell you what his opportunities are to find out in a 150km space, where he ran the front, what was going on. I feel sorry for many of my fellow Members, who today were even convicted only on the basis of the two slaps that had been slapped by a protected witness before the war and kicked him out of a bar drunk. Today, the Belgrade War Crimes Tribunal has been sufficiently told by a protected witness that it took part in the shooting of people in Ovcara for 15 years, for five years as a wartime military disability lies in prison, without any evidence and without any other witness who confirmed it. Everyone said that man wasn't seen on the Sheepdog that day. But because a protected witness confirmed that he was there and that he saw him there, a man got 15 years in prison. God forbid he gets away with it, I don't think he will, even in case there's any material evidence that he couldn't have been on the Sheepdog that day. I'm not going to mention names, I really have no intention of putting pressure on the court, I'm just asking you to make sure that for a war crimes, which has been pre-arranged by the public, by the judiciary, they lead very carefully to these cases and try to collect as much material evidence as possible, because there are slaves huge, up to 40 years old, now the maximum sentence will be 20 years for participation, according to the old law. I would really ask you that when we talk about the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the War Crimes Court, we take good care of the weight of these judgments, the weight of those people who are convicted of war crimes, the weight of those judgments for their families, and what position we put all these people in. Now I'd like to draw your attention, take it from the D.A.'s War Crimes site, and I'm particularly interested in this collaboration that's going to talk a lot and confirm what I've been saying so far. I would just read it, he says: This prosecution and the prosecution of the UN tribunal, as two professional and professional bodies that have the same goal, it is the prosecution of perpetrators of war crimes, exchanging data, documentation, etc. So, if it is clearly proven that the UN court's priority goal is to condemn Serbs for participating in wars since 1990 and 1999, then I think that our war crimes prosecution should not have that goal, but should have the aim of, above all, enlightening the war crimes of other peoples committed against the Serb people. However, this turned into the opposite. I must tell you that it writes here -- the result of co-operation with The Hague tribunal is, among other things, the proposal by Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Prosecutor's Office for the former Yugoslavia, the Court Council of the Hague tribunal, that war crimes prosecutors submit cases of the Vukovar Troika, the accused Mrksic, Sljivancanin and Radic. It is probably clear to everyone, to all citizens and to you, that these people are not subject to the prosecutor's office in Serbia and that they ended the process in The Hague, and that Mr Mr Mr Mrksic was sentenced to 20 years, Mr Sljivancanin for five years, Mr Radic received an acquittal. Mr. Sljivancanin only got five years because they couldn't give him less because he spent five years in prison. I have to tell you, it says here that one of their chief associates is the US Embassy. So she was particularly apostrophe among other associates. He says the US government, through its Embassy in Belgrade, supports the work of the war crimes prosecutor. On several occasions, she provided technical and material assistance. The war crimes prosecutor's office and representatives of the US government directly co-operate on the subject of the Genesis brothers. US Ambassador Michael Polt supported the prosecution of war crimes during a visit to the prosecution on September 29, 2004. I do not believe that the US ambassador is interested in his actions in Serbia but rather in establishing such political relations so that he can employ as much political profit as possible for his country and his government as possible. This will best be achieved if the prosecution continues to pressure Serbia and the Serb people. This was really the highlight for me, not to say cynicism, but illogical. He says, co-operation with NGOs: The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is working with the NGO sector, especially (now pay attention) with the Open Society Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund and the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. It is clear to us, from what has been happening in this country over the past 15 years, what attitude towards the Serbian people and the interests of the Serbian people are given by representatives of these NGOs. It is clear to me completely, and I hope that it will be clear to others, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whom I am addressing, that the war crimes prosecutor's office will be tasked with continuing pressure on the Serbian people, to do what the UN tribunal may not have yet been able to do. Now I'd like to continue a little bit what the Hague tribunal is, the truth about the Hague tribunal these days is getting a lot of light and the general public is getting acquainted with it. I will now read to you, he says -- at the same time, at the height of the conflict between Carla del Ponte and Jeffrey Nyss, former Milosevic's prosecutor called on the UN administration to determine that FlorenceArtman had come to the data published in the book "Peace Penalty", which was published in France on 10 September, in which she accuses Najs of hiding his main role as MI-6 at Milosevic's trial under the prosecutor. People, so what we're talking about here, if the chief prosecutor in the case against Slobodan Milosevic was an agent MI-6, does you really or anyone in this country believe that his interest was to prove justice or to realize the interests that matter to his country? It is clear, clearly, that England has contributed to the geostrategic position above all Serbia and this part of the Balkans. It's really not clear to me when we're going to sober ourselves from the delusions that we have that The Hague tribunal... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: When DS falls from power. I didn't say that, Mr. Krasic, that's what you say when you go out, but I'm just saying that we really need to come and get the sense to see what's going on around us, what's true and what's the consequences of what we've gotten into and what we agreed to do under the pressure of the international community. I said it the last time, and now I repeat, the relationship of the suspects, accused and convicted in The Hague is indeed not adequate for the crimes committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but rather directly proportional to the 10m euros, the engagement of the best lawyers and the achievement of some political interests which, unfortunately, have been executed in Serbia. Since there are more amendments, I will continue my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9708	I thank the People's MP, Zeljko Vasiljevic. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? Replica, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9709	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is a well-intentioned replica or something that is the result of some of my work, practice and action, or expertise. War crimes, Mr Vasiljevic, don't go out of date, and we can't go down now, so let's say, what happened was, it doesn't matter, it's now going to be a respected citizen, respected, respected and respected. There is no problem with the war crimes court or the war crimes prosecutor's office here, the court in The Hague, no matter what they think of each other, or their work, actions, and the people who represent them, here is the problem with our state of mind. Will we admit that some of our countrymen have committed crimes and will have to answer for these crimes? That is why I think that in the future, regardless of how long the UN tribunal will last, and we see against some of his decisions and Croats are rebelled, demonstrated, protested, even more than we here, so independently of that we must be accounted for by the competent judicial institutions, against those of our countrymen and our citizens who have committed crimes. So, I think you're okay with that, too. I said this for the simple reason that I think we should affirm the work of the D.A.'s War Crimes and War Crimes Court, because it represents us in an adequate way in the world. I don't engage in their treatment of certain cases, because I can't do it, it's not right to interfere with the work of the judicial authorities, but I do seem to be, and otherwise I'm like the Justice Minister at the time, and I'm proud, the lawmaker and the establishment of the prosecution and the war crimes tribunal, just to show the world that we've been through catharsis and we want these people to respond and sit on the defendant's bench. Of course, I wouldn't deal with individual objects. I know a group of officers in The Hague were tried for Ovcara, and I wouldn't engage in any analysis of that verdict, that some of them are tried for the crimes at the Ovcara in front of our war crimes tribunal, but here's another question when it comes to the Ovcara trial, because you offered me that because you mentioned it, that's also a question for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and, indirectly, for the minister of justice - who has selected, and that man or a group of people have a name and last name, patients, wounded or present at a hospital in Vukovar, which is said not to be wounded, that they shouldn't be in the hospital, then taken to the Ovcara and the shooting? But remember, when we analyze those crimes of that fatal footage from Trnov, which, as a man, every one of us has to get chilly when he sees it, I'm afraid we often act on that people's video - far from the eyes, far from the heart. The crime must be answered and it is better for them, our countrymen and our citizens, to answer for the crimes here in front of the courts and the prosecutions of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9710	I thank Dr. Vladan Batic. The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9711	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before I ask a specific question to the president of the National Assembly, I would like to inform all MPs that, as a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I received a letter from the Municipality of Bogatic, and it was addressed for a simple reason that this municipality and its leadership spoke to the Ministry of State Administration several times and local self-government about calling local elections. I'll give you a brief explanation. SO Bogatić filed an initiative to recall the president of the municipality, Bogatic, and it was held in 11/03.2007. Revocation failed. The government disbanded SO Bogitis 20.04, and the decision came into effect in 28.04. Article 113(3) The law on local self-government decidently says that the president of the National Assembly, after the three-month deadline, is required to call local elections. The second condition is that there is no vote to be called if there is six months left until the local elections. This is about two conditions. It's been three months, and there's no legal choice in less than six months. Given that the elections were due to be called on June 28th 2007, as a national MP and a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I ask a direct question to the president of the Assembly - will they respect the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 113(3) and call elections for the local self-government assembly in Bogatic? These elections will certainly allow the municipality of Bogatic to function more normally. There's a relationship, I suppose, between the Interim Council and the president of the municipality as it is and that good would not come this letter. Once again, we will forward this letter to the Committee on Local Self-Government and its President, Mr Palalic, and he will take this position. I repeat again, and as soon as we get an answer: will the President of the National Assembly call the elections, in accordance with Article 113(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The law on local self-government, in the municipality of Bogatic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9712	I thank the People's MP. The People's MP Željko Vassiljević has the word according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9713	Article 101(1) Mr. Batic, advocating the conviction of criminals is not some great wisdom or something that differs here. There are no MPs who are not for it. We, as war participants, and I as a wartime military invalid, are most in favour of condemning criminals. Those who committed war crimes must answer for what they did. I absolutely agree with you that this is what domestic courts should do. We're here on exactly the same thing, so let's get this straight. There's one thing - but. If you have in The Hague a relationship of 85-10-5 indictees, perhaps even more unfavourable for the Serbs, and the age-old relationship far worse, that is not justice. This relationship is not directly caused by the severity and number of crimes committed, but rather by some other factors. That's what I want to say. So, don't be advocating now not to answer. No, because, as a warrior, as a man who was willing to lay down his life for Serbia and the Serbian people, it sounds pathetic to me, but it is true, it has done the most damage. They could not harm those deserters and those traitors who escaped from calling to defend their people and their country, but only to us who participated. That's why our condemnation of these crimes is much more difficult and much louder than you think and than you want to hear. But I ask you that the prosecution and the war crimes court are not used for political purposes by suspecting certain individuals, because they will find protected witnesses who will be able to say whatever they want, and that without checking the material evidence, they trust the witness and that someone is sentenced for 15 years only to a statement of a protected witness. Mr. Batic, that's a huge condemnation for the descendants of that man. If they deserve it, it's a special story. That's what I'm talking about, that this court and this prosecution have to take strict care of what they're doing, has to make sure that his decisions are very, very politically significant. If our prosecution exclusively condemns our war criminals, which I stand for, and does not initiate proceedings, which I will tell you later, against others, then that is part of the political story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9714	Thank you. Since no one is answering any of the MPs under this amendment anymore, we are going to Article 2. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9715	Mr. Petrovic, you have a difficult role to play to defend something you cannot defend. We've come up with this topic in principle, what's wrong with these changes and additions to this bad law anyway. Now I would concentrate on Article 2 and, by amendment, I would like that Article 2 to be amended. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure is deleted. You add a new article 13a to that article, and it translates into listening, tracking a person suspected of potentially helping a person for whom there is also some suspicion that they have committed a war crime. In its essence, this crime - aiding the perpetrator after a crime - belongs to a group of crimes against the judiciary, does not fall within the act of a war crime regulated by the previous points of that Article of the 2nd basic text of the law. That's what I explained to you. Why do I think that these measures should not be applied by the state to these persons? Not to be a philosophyist, I'll give you a little later official note on the citizen's notice. The official note has been since 27 September 2007. The police informed Mr. Ristic Stanko that he was being followed by some faces, so before you passed this law, this change has not yet taken effect, I guess that's clear to everyone. But you're applying that law. It's about a person suspected of helping Ratko Mladic. So, regardless of the law, you follow him. He now lists the number of cars, and when they enter the apartment, and who he suspects, etc. Mr. Petrovic, please (give the paper to the minister), Mr. Petrovic will not throw it away when I give it. My message to the people covered by this law intervention. A very effective means of combating those who listen to you, follow you, film you, etc., is to arm yourselves with patience, train you a little, and when you see them following you, then offer them ice cream. This was the radio Vojislav Seselj at a time when he was persecuted in the late 1980s. Yeah, the famous operating action of the Index, and he turns around, grabs these out of state security and he says, "You want ice cream, and those poor people have to eat ice cream so they don't see Vojislav Seselj being followed." I have an even more effective means of fighting those who follow. Every year when it's a new year, I congratulate them on their new year on the phone and count a little family. I tell them nicely, you six listeners – and today it's so modern that every rustle can provide a listening apparatus, it's currently a BIA procurement, so you know; you know I need to know everything; so there's a possibility from a distance, over this, over that, etc. - Well, I told them nicely, amen people, so make sure one of them listens and gets a photocopy of it in six copies. Which six, six services, you're going to kill each other. Of course, these voyeurs that they have to listen to, I always tell them on the phone that, while they listen – since "uher" is more out of use, you know, that tape recorder, that tape recorder, even though it's the most reliable listening -- I tell them to pay attention to where their wives are, where their children are, etc. That seems a little funny, but it's a very serious thing. Now let's go back to what the government demonstrated to us with this bill of law. She demonstrated to us that she didn't know what a pillow was and what a pillow was. I'll explain to you what a pillow is, and what a pain in the ass it is. For what is called a pillow is important Djurjevdan and Mitrovdan, and these are those who protected the people's tribunals, the hiduks, who fought like, now I'm not talking about famous characters from Western Europe, where they fought in some forests for the rights of the people where some master is pressuring, etc. It's roughly in folk epic poetry very honorable to be the strength of a folk hero. In that part I support you, you have a nice interpretation of it. But you've got a bit of a pain in the ass. Why did you get the moan? Under this law of yours, if you vote, and if you vote for what Mr. Petrovic is here to defend, just to remind you, Ratko Mladic was the first indictment filed on July 24th 1995, so it was amended 16. 11. 1995. At that time, Richard Holbrooke boasted that it was good that they had brought and formed a war crimes court, as they avoided taking part in the Dayton meeting between Karadzic and Mladic. He even boasted at the time and that president of the court. It's the first proof that it's a purely political court. So, what Mr. Batic was saying about the state of the nation's consciousness, tie the cat to the tail. We are in the field of rights, not in the field of reasonable judgment or state of consciousness. If they have a problem with the state of mind, there are other institutions, the National Assembly is not a place to consider the state of consciousness of Mr Batic. We need to talk about the law here and very specifically. Let's move on. The extradition order for Mr Ratko Mladic was handed over to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr Petrovic, on July 25th 1995 and on November 16th 1995, which means 12 years there is a warrant and you inherited the warrant, Mr Petrovic. Let's move on. A report by the Military Security Agency was delivered and presented by the Ministry of Defence to the Supreme Defence Council in January 2006. Who was in the Supreme Defence Council in January 2006? Bullija. Who was the Secretary of Defense? When Natasha Kandić, pathologist Zoran Stankovic. What's going on here? There was a recapitulation of Mr Mladic's movement since July 1995, and on top of that, the official secret, I can't talk any further. Let's move on, what can I say? The documents show that General Mladic was an active Yugoslav Army officer by the end of March 2002, when he retired in the rank of Lieutenant General. Who was the defence minister in March 2002, who was president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who was commander-in-chief? They, Mr Petrovic, who made you blush here, Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, the political father and the political son, the two without a helm, beyond any reasonable doubt. Let's move on. How did you get the data that the flocks were to be chased? Now, there's a legal wretch. What are the elements of the criminal act - the concealment of the perpetrator after a crime, the help of the perpetrator after a crime has been committed. Can you apply that to those who allegedly cooked cabbage, reportedly were once employed at the Republika Srpska Office in Belgrade and do you even, Mr Petrovic, know what it says in Article 333? You know? Then let me read you the last attitude. How can children, women and relatives possibly be prosecuted, persecuted, detained when children are obliged to hide their parents and no one can call them to account for it? Mr. Petrovic, God forbid you do something, some crime, so your favorites are obliged to love you more than to obey the law. There is no law that enters family and family relations in such a brutal way that you want to apply this. If someone committed a crime, so is the woman, the children, the relatives, they do it completely legal and legitimately. That's what the regulations say. You know what, what you don't know, it's your fortune, and don't make me quote the law now, the Constitution, the regulations, etc. I know that I have a large number of fans among the Democrats, and you sit there all the time and I appreciate you sitting around all the time. So it's called a legal failure. Mr Petrovic, before any citizen in the Republic of Serbia thinks that you are making it suspicious that he allegedly was hiding someone, I am telling you that this action could be conducted at all, first you have to arrest Radet Bulatovic, and the second one you have to arrest is Zoran Stankovic. Of course, the ones pre-front. , Tadic and Kostunica, you can't arrest them, protect them, but you have to arrest these two to question them, so when you're done with them and you say they're nothing to blame for this work that you're installing - and you're authorized now, if you pass this law, to listen to them too; now just tell me how Bulatovic you'll be listening – then you can listen to Djog, Vaskovic, Ristic, Krasic, Veric, only then. So that's a prerequisite for you to apply this law. You can ask the squirrel about the cabbage, you can ask me about the car tires, but these two have to be questioned in all circumstances. Just to remind you, Mr Petrovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia should order the movie "Carlene List". That movie ended in 2006, because Carla suffered it, you know, that she's some cat, she's all over something, etc., and she made a woman film about herself. Buy that movie, he participated in some competitions, they go crazy in The Hague because of that movie, they say it's insane, but I recommend you buy it, share it with all the members of the government, all the members of the Democratic Party and all the NGOs, see how Carla del Ponte on the plane comments on who you are, what you are and what you serve her. He drinks champagne nicely with his secretary and says -- did you see that Kostunica fly something, I say to him: Zoran Stankovic to appoint as defence minister, he promised me, since he is a domestic friend with Ratko Mladic, that he will deliver Mladic. So there's no military transformation, there's nothing to deliver, but to deliver the young man. No, you see, more about Karadzic. Now Carla's asking to be investigated. And they attack, whom neither the poor nor the debtor, the government of Nadezhdin, the witness who was, so he saw a man and who signed, why he signed, as he had signed. Who else are you attacking? This poor woman is a judge who's got the law to apply. What's her fault? Well, guilty, because her judgment has some shortcomings. Since these guys from Cheda's party escaped, I blew it all up, to tell you about these procedures here, so it's a public secret. Mr. Petrovic, how can a man with a pseudonym of Bloody Bora be a witness associate, please explain to me. You know a man rots in prison without having any evidence against him. He even has proof, the Croat came from Croatia and said, "Well, what are you accusing him of?" He saved my life. But, Sam Nazaro, Natasha Kandic and not to order these Englishmen hiding, they're stuck, some material has to be against this. So it's not a state of consciousness problem with Mr. Batic, it's a fact problem here. No one has the right to protect a war criminal, but that doesn't mean you can declare anyone a war criminal. Why didn't you read the text or book of Mr Ivanisevic, Ljiljana Bulatovic or this text that was published in "The Voice of the Public" on October 23rd, written by the Government of Nadezhdin, to see what the background of Srebrenica is, and not to apologize for everything. When I say you apologize for everything and everything, I have no intention of demeaning anything. You must find some measure beyond reasonable doubt, a logical measure. So, I've taught my future suspect how to defend themselves against those who follow them. You're free to beat them because they're doing it illegally. I'm chasing them, to tell you the truth. I was almost followed, I caught up with them and said - call Radet Bulatovic and tell him he's the biggest drug dealer in Serbia. To tell these people who are going to the Security Committee: do not accept any BIA reports unless it starts with a sentence - thanks to BIA there is no drugs in Serbia. As long as there's drugs in Serbia, BIA's dealing drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9716	According to the amendment, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9717	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, this member, and as Mr. Krasic explained, is the essence of the political functioning of the prosecution and the court, what I have been up against all along. I repeat again publicly from this pay phone that everyone hears, as a wartime military invalid, as a participant of war, condemn every war crime and I will fight every criminal in prison. However, by extending jurisdiction in this way, primarily the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, you are introducing a political situation. What kind of situation is that? So far, you've only been able to prosecute those of us who participated in the war. That's about 350-400 thousand people, no accurate data. But that's not enough, Mr. Petrovic. It's not enough that in this population alone, you can threaten these people with war crimes prosecution. You need the influence and possibility of the threat to extend that circle of people who will be able to be dragged into the provisions of this law and come under the influence of both the prosecution and the war crimes court. Look what it's all about. Suppose I committed some kind of war crime. For ten years, my friends around me don't know I've committed a war crime, they're helping me. One day they'll be able to answer for what they've helped me with. You want to condemn us 350 and 400,000 before the prosecution or the court makes any judgment, that all our friends, acquaintances, relatives are afraid of whether they were with us, helped or not. I really ask you, Mr Petrovic, to think carefully about this amendment and it would be good for you to accept this amendment to Mr Krasic, because you are really bringing a huge number of people, who are neither guilty nor completely innocent, into one situation that can easily come under the influence of this law, and that is only by finding a protected witness, to whom the prosecution, court or anyone will believe what they say, without any material evidence. I ask you for those consequences that the investigation itself suspects someone that is a war crime is causing for him, his family, his friends and his relatives, make sure you try and see the social danger of expanding the rights of the prosecution and the court of war crimes. Indeed, it is a dangerous situation. Once again, this time, Mr. Petrovic to you, when you explained this law, you said that the greatest social danger is a different crime. This social danger is really great over a certain period of time. Fifteen years after the wars, that social danger wasn't so great. It cannot be measured by the danger of corruption, with the danger of human trafficking, by undermining the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the country, because now these are all dangers that are much greater by the social system, by the state system and by the state and by the people at all. Be assured, I guarantee you, because I know a lot of people who have come under the influence of these laws. They are no threat to the state and this society, because even tomorrow, if this country comes into question, they are willing to die for it, even though you have condemned them, although they are convicted, even by Croatian courts, unverified, in absentia, of civil rights, because they are convicted of war crimes. And you know what judgments are for war crimes and what consequences they cause for them, and when they serve a punishment that they have not earned. Thank you. I'd like to leave some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9718	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic and then on the amendment to Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9719	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it is a member of 136th and directly refers to Minister Petrovic, who is a representative of the government here. Mr Petrovic, during the principle debate, which was who knows when this bill came to light, probably three weeks have passed, I asked some very important questions and I asked that we get an answer before this debate is concluded, because after that, there really is no point in any answer to be provided to me. Even so, I'm getting late answers for these G17s taking up rooms. And they're gone, and they ran away from me, what to do. Let me just remind you what this is about. It is an instrumentisation of all state bodies that are to work by order of Carla del Poneta or to be even more precise, in translation of the Serbian variant Carla del Ponte, that is Natasa Kandic. I asked a very specific question. Deputy war crimes prosecutor, Mr. Bogdan Stankovic, on 13 September 2007, under KTRRR 130/07 asked the police for special action, allegedly to fight war crimes, etc., to bring a person to Jevrem Grujic, to put additional pressure on them to be false witnesses in the case against Vojislav Seselj. There's no answer. I got the answer in the light of an OSCE representative's statement, one here, which says MPs are putting pressure on the prosecutor. Let's clear up whether I'm lying or being lied to by these informants or if they really exist under this number of acts. Mr. Petrovic, I saw an act. That's the problem. I saw what it says. Two passports are fake. Like, you're talking to these people, they're asking The Hague for protection to be witnesses against Vojislav Seselj. But I do have statements from those people saying they don't want to be witnesses of the Hague prosecutor's office, with an explanation, all the pressures. Here, and Chanak won't be a witness to the D.A.'s office. Did you read what he said in the paper? He wants to be a witness to the truth. He doesn't want to be a witness to the prosecution. He says as soon as I say I want to be a witness to the truth, they won't call me. Mr Petrovic, the trial of Vojislav Seselj is on its way in a few days. Serbia's number one state interest is to allow a transfer. You know why? To make the public see how the prosecution will prove that Vojislav Seselj was on his own in a joint criminal enterprise before the joint criminal enterprise was formed. Well, that's what the bright minds wrote. They don't even know how many witnesses they have. They don't know what the witnesses are gonna say. They didn't deliver anything. They don't know how to start a trial. It's a vision. It's just a farce. Do you agree that the trial should be a farce? If you agree, say so - we agree, Vojislav Seselj does not deserve to be handed over the trial, he does not deserve any human right to use it. That's what The Hague said, five years a day. No human rights are recognised by Vojislav Seselj. Why don't we see it now -- all Serbian citizens -- to see what the UN tribunal is. To see what kind of science fiction structures there are. There are such structures that could not even allow a law school to enroll in Belgrade. There are so many nebuloses written: alone in a joint criminal enterprise -- can you understand that? But it seems to suit you that he's cheating there. Say, it suits us. Say you do not find it productive for the Serbian public to see what the process is like. Say it freely, clearly, and not a little left, a little right -- so we'd like to, and we can't go abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9720	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. According to the amendment, MP Vidoje Jovanovic has. Please, Vidoje, are you giving up or not, the whole room is waiting for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9721	Mr. Vice President, I apologize, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the amendment to Article 2 submitted by Mr. Zoran Krasic. The SPS will support this amendment. The Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, which was adopted in 2003, 2004 and 2005, covered the issue of education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority of the national authorities and their organisational units for the detection, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences. In Article 2, point 3 is added, which refers to the criminal offence of aid to the perpetrator after the offence has been committed. Point 1. refers to crimes against humanity and point 2 to criminal acts for violations of international humanitarian law. The fact is that in the last years of the 20th century civil war has taken place in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. All the nations and ethnicities have violated some of the rules of war, that they have committed crimes, but it seems to me that the former republics and political leaderships of the former republics did not have the same or at least equal relationship in punishing the perpetrators. I want to point out that the SPS has a clear view, which is that all those who have committed crimes against humanity, violations of international humanitarian law, should be brought to justice. On the other hand, the question is, does everyone else do it? I want to respect that our leadership wants to co-operate with the international community, wants to meet the UN tribunal's demands, but Bruno Vekaric himself said that in carrying out some convictions, in the launch of criminal proceedings against persons in other republics there is too much political influence on their judicial authorities. One question now arises whether, at the pressure of the international community, only Serbia, its judicial authorities and the war crimes prosecutor's office must move and be effective in adopting some legal acts, to be effective in pressing charges against our citizens. That is why the SPS supports this very amendment relating to erasure and we will vote for it. I would especially like to point out that the international community has recently put a great deal of pressure on our leadership and that our prosecution has prosecuted a number of our citizens suspected of committing or committing crimes. At the same time, I would like to ask whether, in addition to this activity, in spite of our intention and our leadership, which in some way apologized to other republics, and we also expected some reciprocity, because other peoples did this genocide and violated those human rights when it comes to Serbs, I ask the question: whether the International Court in The Hague had the same archaics against Serbs, means whether it was a court for Serbs, whether it had different methods when collecting data for certain convicts who were or were prosecuted, and it is certain that they did not. I want to point out one of those examples. There was an SPS resolution here to condemn all crimes committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. There was an initiative here to bring a resolution only on the conviction of a crime in Srebrenica. So we didn't have political unity. I just want to point out that The Hague has shown its true picture on one occasion, Naser Oric and the late Deronjic. Deronjic was sentenced to 10 years on the basis of a deal to speak at the will of the International Court in The Hague, and Naser Oric was convicted of crimes - two years. And we remember Kravica, we remember Drina, between Bratunac and Love, the massacre that the Bosniaks, or Muslims, have committed over Serbian life. It's the Kravica case. I also want to say to confirm what Vekaric himself said - what about the launch of criminal proceedings against those responsible in "Storm", "Blash"? What about Dudakovic, Voluntary in Sarajevo, a column in Tuzla, an attack by Slovenian territorial defence on members of the JNA? All this raises the question of our relationship between the political and judicial authorities and the war crimes prosecutor's office - to take care of our citizens to the extent that they are led by the other republics and their bodies. That's why I'm saying that the SPS in principle said it wouldn't support this bill, and we're going to support deleting Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9722	I thank MP Vido Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to article 3 by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Jojic want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Petar Jojic and it is the last amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to ask the question of the MPs in the position that has asked for a repeat provision of the members to what this applies – that is the provision that regulates those persons who are free from witnessing. This is provided for in the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, in Article 98. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 98. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which is valid in the Republic of Serbia, norms - are freed from the duty of testimony of a spouse accused and the person with whom the defendant lives in an extramarital or other community; secondly, blood relatives in the right line, relatives in the slope line until the third degree, as well as relatives in the court to the second degree final; adoptor and adoptor of the accused. The court which conducts the proceedings shall be obliged to warn the persons referred to in Article 1, before their hearing or as soon as they have heard of their relations with the accused, that they do not have to testify, and the warning and response shall be entered in the minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, this applies to the Ratko Mladic case and the Radovan Karadzic case, this applies to those others for whom yellow ants run and seek to be arrested even children, women, fathers and mothers and not to count. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is to believe the Constitution and the law, if the Constitution is the highest legal act, if the law, first of all, the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the provision of Article 98, sets it out precisely, I do not know who gave the right to a special prosecutor and a special court to approach the opposite provisions of Article 98. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a violation of the law this House has passed. This is not the right of those who are now appealing and praying, according to Carla del Ponte, who, for the sake of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, comes very often to visit the Republic of Serbia, who is trying in every way possible to find one of the false witnesses to the Serbian Radical Party or Professor Vojislav Seselj, who will testify that one of the Serbian radicals or that Prof. Vojislav Seselj has committed some war crimes. Here, to this pet of mine, and you know how I adore her, I say she will never find an honest Serb, honest and honorable citizen of the Republic of Serbia who will go to The Hague to spray himself in front of her and stand on the line and say -- here, I prove to the facts, with my head and my beard, if the goat is not lying to the horn, there's evidence that they are accusing Serbian radicals of some alleged war crimes. Gentlemen, some will be ashamed to stand behind the bill, and I must draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, that the provisions of this law are already being applied, and that is illegal. So they're listening to me, please, if I don't accidentally cooperate with the family of Ratko Mladic or Radovan Karadzic. They're listening to me because I'm involved in the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj. I'll get it for you, if you need proof, 'cause I got it. Serbian radicals and patriots, who defended their country and did not attack anyone in history, have never attacked anyone. Only this honest Serb people fought bravely and beat two kingdoms of Austro-Hungarian. Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed this amendment, I hope it never applies, and I hope no one has allowed this provision of a member to be applied and entered into force. Never, damned be he who raises his hand and votes for such a criminal law. Don't let the MPs out of position and make sure that some of you don't listen to each other, which you have no knowledge of. Ladies and gentlemen, what is required by the provision of a bill on the agenda? In the provisions of Article 146. The Code of Criminal Procedure is normised: "The investigating judge, on a written and reasoned proposal by the State Prosecutor, may order the monitoring and recording of phone and other conversations or communication by other technical means and optical recording or tracking in space and monitoring by electronic devices of a person who is suspected of committing crimes on their own or with others": against constitutional arrangements and security of the state, with an element of organised crime, money laundering, unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs, illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition and explosive material, trafficking in human beings, and that I do not list. The Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that these measures can last for three months, that they can be extended for another three months. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, in this dirty business that some of our security services can apply or if they apply, it's the dirtiest job and I recommend to those who do this, don't eat this dirty bread, because this is the dirtiest and bloodiest bread that can be against your country and your people. In modern international law, while in Dushan's Law, the right to asylum was enjoyed by anyone who escaped from the dungeon, who went to the imperial court. The same slave who escaped from the royal court in the patriarchal court acquired the rights of asylum. Imagine what was allowed in the medieval Kotor for the celebration of the Holy Trifun on February 3rd: all those covered, except for some works, have the right to asylum, imagine even though convicted of the most severe crimes, had the right to asylum three days before the celebration and three days after the glory. Please, ladies and gentlemen, see how smart these lawyers were, you see that someone was thinking about morality back then. And imagine, ladies and gentlemen, where the greater immorality of those in The Hague who did not allow even Professor Vojislav Seselj to come to his mother's funeral. Please, ladies and gentlemen, that's what's called the world dictatorship and the American dictatorship, the Bush dictatorship, which also wants to subjugate Serbia to hold it forever in some slavery. Is there justice? Is everyone equal right? Does he respect the United Nations Charter? Does this court respect the Pact of Fundamental Human Rights? It does not respect either the Charter of the United Nations, or the Pact of Human Rights, so it does not respect any international act, or the rights given to citizens and guaranteed by the Charter of the United Nations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest again: do not adopt this bloodthirsty bill, because this is not a proposal of the law of the Serbian citizens, because the citizens of Serbia did not propose this bloodthirsty law; this was proposed by the bloodthirsty from the West - America and from The Hague. Don't accept this miracle. Don't lawlessness in one country, which has its own legal institutions for 800 years. Don't let anyone else dictate to us here what legal regulations we should bring. When Carla del Ponte comes to Serbia, let's arrest half of Belgrade, that she has the security to stay in this country. Please, I participated personally in hundreds of security guards from the heads of state by the number one rate in this country. No one has ever given any foreign state or government chief such security as Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic del Ponte, who came to Belgrade to force this government and president of the Republic, to ask them to gather as many false witnesses as possible to accuse the Serb people, Professor Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radical Party. He can't anymore, let's break up with this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9724	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonko Mihajlovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to meet the public, the MPs, and in particular the minister of justice for one of the many mounted court proceedings against already former MP Zoran Stanojevic of the village of Staro Gracko, the municipality of Lipjan. You've all heard of Old Graco's village after one unkind event. In fact, there, Cypriot terrorists killed 14 Serb harvesters in one day. Zoran Stanojevic was arrested on 14 August 1990 following Nazmi Mahmuti's application to British KFOR in Lipian. Mahmuti said that during the event on January 15th 1999 in Račka he mentioned Zoran Stanojevic, as a member of the MUP, killed one and tried to kill two more civilians. In a mounted trial, with false witnesses whose statements were highly contradictory, Zoran Stanojevic was found guilty of murder, according to Article 30(1). Kosovo's criminal law, regarding Article 22. Jugoslavia's criminal code, and sentenced to a total 15-year sentence. Zoran Stanojevic was at that time, and now moreover, a poor asset, so he couldn't afford an adequate lawyer. This case is well known to me, so I can argue that the mention of Zoran was not found at all in Račko, but in the village of Crnoljevo, where he worked at the checkpoint, which is also spoken of by the current official note, and that his main fault is that he married an Albanian woman who, after marrying him, moved from Muslim to Orthodox religion and gave birth to two beautiful Serbian children, which is not a day-to-day settlement. What happened to Zoran is a classic revenge, because he showed with his gesture and proved that Serbs and Albanians can still live together. Zoran Stanojevic is now in prison in Kursumlia, in line with an agreement between the Interim Kosovo Institutions and the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9726	I thank the People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and then also by amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. The SRS has five minutes left. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9727	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS will certainly support the amendment to Article 3 which has been submitted here, and not only that, but the previous amendments submitted by the SRS. In fact, if we could, the SPS would also support the abolition of this basic law that is now being complemented by these members of this law. In fact, this is just a continuation of a wrong policy that leads Serbia into a abyss and is only one shade in that sublime. We're almost used to getting into one darkness, one sunflower, one sinkhole, where we've lost as a state and as a people of our dignity, and we can't see anything light in our future. What I'm saying is that, in fact, you DOS now from the ruling coalition, in the previous period, before October 5, 2000, you kept destroying the state. If that is understood, although it is difficult to understand, because it can be understood that someone is in opposition, that the political means are against the current policy, but it is certainly not possible to understand the degradation and destruction of the state that was being carried out at the time. You came to power, and not only did you then a coup on October 5th, and by the way, using the great dissatisfaction of the people because of the hard life, because of the poor standard, but also using the services of the underworld and many criminal circles, which suggests that you knew these criminal circles, so you did overnight to place Serbia in the Western spheres of interest. It was, in fact, the main goal of those who helped you and those who came to power. Understandably, one small state must be in some sphere of the interest of other states, larger forces, but it is unacceptable for Serbia to be in such a humiliating and vassal relationship to Western power centres, as it is today under your authority. You, therefore, have constantly and persistently torn down and disintegrated the state, but that is what you do today when you are in power. It's actually absolutely incomprehensible. The fact that you're destroying the state today, that you don't care about what is the perseverance of a serious state with some prosperity, that's the same thing as giving a lowlife or a reckless man a fortune, and he can't keep it, he can't make it bigger, he can't do anything about it. You also showed your nature of destruction in 2000, when you managed to get into the National Assembly without any more resistance, but you did not have enough to enter the National Assembly, then the Federal Assembly, I mean the House of the National Assembly of Serbia, but you vandalized that historical monument, according to that home, and you started to destroy it and burn it down. If the previous policy was a policy of confrontation, and I remind you that it may have been in some part and it was, but thanks to you, of course, and many circumstances, which was discriminatory, it might have been a good thing that it was, and if the conditions for changing such a policy were met, instead of choosing a midway, which would make Serbia take a worthy path of respect in the international community, you have joined a capitulation policy. This policy of capitulation and betrayal of Serbian interests is seen in many ways. She looked at what was illegal and unconstitutional, kidnapping and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic. By the way, I would like to ask Mr. Minister, who received $5m from the international community, as officially announced, that whoever helps or hands over Slobodan Milosevic would receive the money. If it was in the interest of the Serbian state, did that money enter the state register or not, and who shared it? The second question, the state's betrayal is also a passive attitude towards its position in The Hague and a lack of interest in the defence of Slobodan Milosevic, who defended the state, first of all, and not himself. Also, the collapse of the state is that it was a passive relationship when it was clear that he was killed in The Hague. The next passive attitude of the state and the collapse of the state is also writing an indictment against Vojislav Seselj here in Belgrade. And it's a policy of capitulation and treason of the state. Furthermore, the often pointless apologies of our officials where they need to be, perhaps where they shouldn't be. Then, a significant reduction and degradation of the military, above all in that personal and material sense, lightning and uncontrolled capitulation that destroyed the country's economy, breaking the national banking system, etc. Therefore, this law is not only one in the infinite consequence of the sublime and wrong policy that you are conducting, but it leads to total capitulation and the introduction of protectorate in this country. For these reasons, the SPS will not vote for this law, and will vote for these amendments, which make sense that such a law will never be passed, which is against Serbia, the Serb people and the Serb being.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9728	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if one of the three amendments to this law or in the debate about any other law, but I reminded you of the position of the Padovian philosopher Marseille, who said the laws existed to limit the will of lord and judge. There are more and more laws in Serbia that serve to strengthen power and power both lords and judges. I consider these amendments and additions to the law a bill like that. I will try to prove to you the absurdity of Article 3 of the Law that is changing, in which you are now also a criminal offense to help the perpetrator after the crime has been committed, from Article 333. The criminal code, which has been committed in connection with some of the criminal acts and Article 13a, which you are introducing, on the proposal of a special prosecutor, and on the persons you have put in to help the perpetrator. So you already know there's a doer. Which one of those the UN tribunal asks for, and that's the only reason you write these laws, which one of them is the perpetrator of the crime? Can the minister come out here and say that Ratko Mladic is the perpetrator of the crime, since that's what you're writing about? He can't. The perpetrator of a crime is the one who has been convicted of a criminal offence. Let's move on. If Ratko Mladic is a perpetrator of a crime and you will introduce measures to monitor all communications, electronic, telephone and other those who helped him after the crime, will these measures apply to Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. Because by 2003, according to your statements, Mr. Minister, they directly assisted Ratko Mladic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by seeing him in the streets, seen in barracks, military facilities, by being here, with consent, assistance and support from the authorities of the Republic of Serbia? Since he is not yet under arrest, and it is evident that Tadic, as defence minister, and Kostunica, as president of the state, helped him after committing the crime, will the special prosecutor for war crimes explain the court's proposal to impose special measures on them too? I think you should once stop serving anyone but your people. It's no shame to be a servant of your people. It's a shame to be his master. You impose yourself as the master of your people, according to the wishes of those who are your masters. That transferred economy and the transferred service here cannot be applied. Every man can individually decide to serve someone. He must not place his office, to which the people choose him, in the service of anyone else and must not determine that other people will serve him who serves him. So, Carly del Ponte can serve both Tadic and Kostunica and the special prosecutor for war crimes, which is on her unmistakable payroll, and the court and minister, if they will, but not go any further. The people won't serve Carly del Ponte. The people can't be the subject of listening just because Carla del Ponte is looking for Ratko Mladic, claiming he's committed a crime, and you don't admit he's a suspect and accused of committing a crime. The fact that you and Priory think Ratko Mladic is the perpetrator of the crime must not be confirmed by now that the prosecutor will be able to explain the court's request for a listening and monitoring of all the people you can bring into any connection with Ratko Mladic. After all, I see by law that the military-security agency can listen, that the BIA can, that the ministry can. Why didn't you bring in all those who could listen in Serbia right now? I think those who were with you and those who were against you, and those who did not have to follow anyone at all, but for little money, for them for little money, can arrange a monitoring, listening to anyone in Serbia. I would prefer that one day you come out here and say, illegal and unfounded citizens of Serbia are listening and following you, you and you, than you have led us to know who might now be officially loaded on our necks. So three jobs can be loaded on our necks, based on the bill. One that will form the MUP, one that will form the BIA and one that will form the VBA. I don't know how you get that right to, say, separate the citizens of Serbia by principle who can be followed, so let's say, Zoran Krasic, as a civilian, to follow the BIA and one of the ensigns there to follow the VBA and one of the third citizens to follow and listen to the MUP. Who's going to do that triage and the selection where who, and where the information is going to flow, are they going to work on the same system, are they interested in the conversations that the person, who was tapped, is doing all day long, on which basis is determined how interesting the conversations are? For example, in an English film, some people who were in prison are negotiating bank robbery, but the last verdict was due to political action. They come out of jail, they follow them all the time, and they listen to them, phone conversations, they set up a bank robbery, they pull off a bank robbery, and someone comes to their senses to listen to what was heard every day and look at the report of those who followed them. Every day, at the end of the day, the operative wrote "there was no political conversation", and they agreed to rob a bank. When they listened again, they also determined the details, identified the faces. Everything could have been prevented if the tracking orders were real and the right people did. I can't imagine, I don't even see the highest places in the country where I can trust some serious business. I really can't imagine this excellent operative specialist with earphones that can tell what Zoran Krasic is talking about with Vojislav Seselj. I really can't find you in your entire hierarchy a man capable of establishing it. So, Mr. Minister, whenever you take a beating into your hand, just imagine the situation that someone can command that beating. I wouldn't dare propose laws to which eight million citizens I put in the hands of Carla del Ponte. Don't convince me that a special war crimes prosecutor has some demands. No, he's just a transmission and transferring Carla del Ponte's demands. After all, that special prosecutor told me about Mr. Alexander Vukic and me in an interview - if there were no such ones, my prosecution wouldn't exist. That's why I don't trust the demands of this special prosecutor, nor do I have any confidence in the entire concept of the prosecution and the special court based on the service of Carla del Ponte. Accept these amendments or write a new law, prove to the whole world that we are a country that can make a good law, that can implement it, and when it does not implement it, let's see what we haven't done in accordance with European legislation. The International Criminal Court of Provisions whose statutes you are calling into law here, even taxingly and not listing the provisions, but saying what it says in the statutes. Mr. Minister, they change those provisions every day. Every day they change actions, which will put you Serbian citizens at risk of being tapped and monitored. And you know very well, you've been on the public scene for a long time, there's nothing harder for a man than when he's lying down and waking up, and when he's doing interviews or private affairs, or private affairs, knowing that there's an employee in the police who has the opportunity to find out what he was doing there during the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9730	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. The word is from Ambassador Željko Vasiljevic, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, please consider this very carefully. First of all, let me say that the SPS parliamentary group will support these amendments and we ask you to really make sure that when you decide whether or not you accept any of this, what all consequences will be caused by the non-acceptance of these same ones. I've been telling you all along about political action and political influence on the prosecution and on the war crimes court. True, I spoke more about The Hague tribunal, but since our prosecution is relying on the UN tribunal's practice, we assume by analogy things are going to happen. Just a few more quotes to tell you. The media war with his chief, Najs, began during his last stay in Belgrade, at the end of March of this year, when he said the UN tribunal was a political court created by politicians and that the trial against Slobodan Milosevic was one of the problematic proceedings in which the court was meant to establish political responsibility by means of legal means. Also, Del Ponte has been criticised for politics so far, but her spokeswoman has accused the tribunal's employees of running politics rather than international justice, spreading to judges as well. She wrote that US Judge Teodor Meron has acted before as a representative of the US administration rather than as president of the UN tribunal. Mr Minister, it is clear to us what the UN tribunal's goal is, not universal justice, that there is no historical responsibility for the events at the premises of the former Yugoslavia since 1990. It is clear that The Hague tribunal was meant to be a court for crimes against the Serb people, that on the basis of the UN tribunal's verdicts, political views and responsibilities of Serbia and the Serbian people for the events in these areas, and that this is what amnesty is for those who committed crimes against Serbs, primarily the NATO Pact, not only in 1990, but also for the situation after 1992, and especially for the operations "Blash" and "Storm". Also, I want to tell you something else, I would like the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes in Serbia to try to shed light on the two most serious war crimes that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the most severe are the consequences caused by war crimes on Markals and on the streets of Vasa Miskina. The war crime on Markals is clear that they carried out Muslim soldiers towards their Muslim people. It's clear to everyone in the world now. Also, in the street of your Miskina, in line for bread, a crime against Muslims has been committed by Muslims. Why are these two crimes the hardest? Because they directly prevented the conclusion of a peace agreement between Serbs and Muslims when they are Serbs, i.e. Muslims agreed. At the time, it was not in the interest of the Americans and, above all, the NATO Pact. That is why these are the greatest crimes that have done the most damage to the Serbian people. One more thing to tell you, one of the goals and tasks of The Hague tribunal and the war crimes tribunal is that all war participants can come under his attack, challenge fear in these people, and for future generations, people who are willing to fight for the interests of their country and their people and their weapons, send a clear message that they are in danger if they do, because it must be done for us only by NATO Pact and foreigners. I must tell you, and I am proud to point out, as the president of the Veterans of Serbia movement and as a member of the SPS parliamentary group, regardless of the UN tribunal's verdicts and regardless of the Belgrade war crimes tribunal's verdicts, this population will be the largest number of people who will defend and fight for the constitutional integrity of Serbia, so if it is necessary and with weapons, regardless of the consequences that will arise afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9732	I thank the People's MP, Zeljko Vasiljevic. The words of the Rules of Procedure have a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9733	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Member of 136, and all of this fits in with this scenario of yours, I think if you let Mr. Petrovic take his time to concentrate, he'll hear this. Article 136 refers to the reasoning of the draft law which is on the agenda. Mr Petrovic, I don't know if you have been informed, but in the SRS parliamentary group there is also MP Branimir Djokic. He's next door to Ratko Mladic. Why is someone listening to and following him today, MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are today following and listening. Given all this, Mr. Petrovic, what is this law, since you're applying that law? You in all segments apply that law. Here's what I'm going to explain. If you didn't know, there was this Parivodić in this government, I called him differently, now he's an adviser, he was only in that government because of denationalisation, to return property to him, after which he has no interest in politics at all. But he was held by Kostunica, you know why? Because he concluded one harmful contract, he sold Marshall to the Americans to build an embassy. We've been asking a few questions whether it's just that location or the whole barracks, or the whole hill, or the whole of Dedinje, what's sold? Why? There are very important military communications. Let me tell you, Mr. Petrovic, since you know I need to know everything, this American embassy in Prince Milos, she doesn't meet the aesthetic criteria, she's a fortress, she's not an embassy, did you see what it looks like, like Medina in the Arab world? During the war, someone smart walks into the basement to see what's down there and gets to some blinded door. I know what's behind the blinded door: a special system for listening to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the police, because that's where the main wire goes. Now there's no need for a divider, so to get in there, so to plug in, etc. No, I don't. There's only one device hanging around that web of those communication cables and everything listening to what's being said in this country. The baby listens, Chad listens, the plague listens, everyone listens in this country. And you have this Balkan group. I draw your attention to the Balkan group, these five or six women you call them everywhere. Do you know how many spies there are in Belgrade and Serbia? That's terrible. Wherever you turn. You remember, Mr. Petrovic, when you were an MP, there was a center one here in the building, so when we took a shit, that was how Rajko, they ran off to Belgrade, so now they've sent their staff here, so when I'm done, when there's no one there, when the Assembly is ambushed, I'm from the office to the office, I'm chasing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9734	Thank you, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9735	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, pay attention to Mr. Branimir Djokic, he is still under surveillance, although this law has not yet been passed. How is it possible in a country where there is a right, where democracy flourishes, and where the government shows us at any moment how we should capture the European perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9736	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Please bring the end of this agenda. Here you go, Rajko. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic and I hope there will be no more speakers behind him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9737	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. They've brought the end, they don't have most of it for nothing. They don't have the majority to vote any of these laws that are on the agenda and I don't know where they're going. Or let them discuss elections for the president of Serbia, and then let's know what this is about, otherwise there's no need for haste, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this is the way it is. So, it's a very important question, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 of the 2nd and 3rd very important question that Mr Krasic mentioned here. I am now asking the parliamentary question of the Supreme Court President, the BIA chief, the police minister and the minister of justice: is it true that any of the known measures of the secret procedure are being applied to MP Branimir Djokic? Does he intercept his e-mail or his other mail? Is it the subject of a follow-up? Does that make one or more service, if it does? Is there, in this regard, the approval of an appropriate state body in this country? I'm not asking this because I don't know the answer. I'm asking for other reasons. I ask the question of the proper administration in Serbia's MUP, which takes care of the security of all MPs, including other state officials, is there, in this regard, any information? I remind you, gentlemen, that in 2001, Goran Petrovic, then chief of staff, was then still called the State Security Service, it seems to me, in Vrnjačka Banja, at a seminar: from 1990 to 1997 there were only three files in Serbia for political inexperiences. And it's not just, it's a lot, and when there's one, you don't think I approve. So, please, let's get answers to these questions. Branimir Djokic is a representative of 30,000 adult citizens with the right to vote in this parliament and the chairman of a assembly committee. Do not humiliate this state's parliament and do not humiliate the MPs. Take measures, so it's said in a colloquial language, criminals who trade drugs, those who deal with the sale of human and human organs, those who take commissions to sell state property, place those who cause invaluable damage in the state of Serbia every day and place some of the directors of public enterprises whose management allowance is more than a million dinars per month, and inform us that their salary is only 329,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9738	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. If I get it right, we've completed a search of the bill in particular. Does Proposer representative Dusan Petrovic, the minister of justice want to give the final word? Here you go. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9739	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is a very important law and this is what this parliamentary debate has shown, as a matter of fact, when we debated this law in principle. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure deals with a vital state issue. I also think of one life-long national thing. It is perfectly natural that there are different political views on this law, that there are open many legal issues and indeed this debate and that day, or two days, when we debated the principle of law, as well as this morning when we talk about amendments that have been submitted, is an opportunity to shake this proposal and not only the legal, but also the political thing from all sides and look at it from all angles. First of all, I think it's important that we once again underline two or three important and, by my judgment, essential political matters. Our country, as none on this continent, has at this moment a major state issue, because territorial issues are state issues of the first order, which is open. There is a single state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. The essence of the political issue is the essence of our international and legal instruments, is that we defend our territory and defend our national and state integrity by insisting that the UN Security Council decide on this matter. As the decision was made in 1244 1999, we now insist with the full right that the Security Council decide whether one member of the UN, who enjoys all the rights set out in the UN Charter, is deprived of the works of its territory. As citizens rely on the law to protect them and to make them all equal to the law, so our country trusts in the UN Charter and the institutions established by this Charter, among other things, the Security Council, to protect our rights. In order for us to seek the protection of our rights, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we must also respect the obligations made before one member of the UN, and Serbia is a full member of the UN, the obligations set before us by the Charter of Un and by the institutions of the UN. The Security Council is, as we all know well, the institution, the institution we require to defend our territory and our integrity, but also the institution, the UN body, which has decided to establish an International Criminal Court in The Hague. The Security Council is, although there are controversy over whether it is in accordance with the Charter or not, but it has adopted the Statute of the Court and is under the International Criminal Court in The Hague. There are rules and all of this here has been explained in detail by several speakers. If, on the one hand, we ask that our territory be protected, we are obliged on the other hand to respect the decisions of the Security Council, and this further leads to binding and individual decisions for our country, which are on the one hand the judgments and other procedural decisions taken by the court, but also the indictments brought by the prosecution that are working in this International Criminal Court. That is why this country, and at that time it was still Serbia-Montenegro, passed a law that established the obligation of co-operation with what we have to do with what is said to be the UN tribunal in The Hague. The law and the obligation that follows from the UN Security Council's decision also gave rise to this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities, as a legal measure that increases and enhances the effectiveness of judicial authorities, which are the war crimes prosecutor's office and the Council of the District Court in Belgrade for War Crimes, to deal with the prosecution of these crimes. So that's the fundamental political assumption of our entire life. At this point, once again, that obligation is so much greater, because we are at a decisive moment when we protect our territory and trust in the international order, established after World War II at the UN Charter and at the decisions of the General Assembly of the Security Council. Now we come to another question, a question that concerns us, a question that is not related to our place in the world and is not about whether or not someone loves us, and whether they consider us good or not. It's a question for all the citizens of this country. Is it possible in other ways to determine the truth about issues in question rather than in court, about criminal matters above all? The first thing, is whether each of us, and I am deeply convinced that each of the 250 people sitting in this House, each of the 250 MPs sincerely wants not to be left unexplained any dilemma about whether war crimes have been committed and whether people, persons, as they are legally said, which is the basis of suspicion and reasonable doubt that these acts have been committed, are really guilty or not. So that we don't have a debate here in parliament and that we don't debate in different television shows with different views, in a civilized world and in a civilized country, we are a civilized country, the answer to that question can only be a court and no one else. In order to allow the court to finish its work, we are making this law, or we are asking and proposing that amendments be adopted and amendments to that law, which is why I call on the MPs to amend these and supplement their adoptions. Some of the technical issues that are open here, I'd be happy to express my view of these legal-technical, very important issues. Our Criminal Code knows the crime of helping the perpetrators after a felony has been committed. This crime is classified in several forms and, of course, depends on whether the person suspected and accused is helping to commit a minor crime for which a lesser sentence is intended, or whether a greater penalty is provided and, of course, that the most severe form of the crime is intended for those who assist the perpetrators for whom the highest penalty is intended. These acts against humanity and international law, which are contained in Articles 370 to 386 of our Criminal Code, are the most serious crimes, because, according to our Criminal Code, the most important social values are protected by these crimes, they are the object of the protection of these crimes. I'm sure we all agree here, because what can be more valuable, not from one human life, but from the human lives that are made up of national and ethnic groups. The protection of these human lives is foreseen by these crimes, and the criminal part of genocide and other crimes, and because of that, as one of the MPs here said, there is no obsolescence for these crimes alone. Nothing is scarier and nothing is more difficult than these crimes, which are foreseen by our Criminal Code, as well as the criminal rules of every normal, orderly and civilized country, which we are. and, therefore, if there is a basis of doubt or a reasonable doubt that someone is helping persons suspected or suspected of committing these crimes, then it is necessary to enable the State to provide appropriate instruments to determine whether this underlying doubt is credible or not. As a result, this bill states to allow competent state authorities, which is primarily the prosecutor for war crimes, and this is the answer to the question of where all this information is being merged, with the war crimes prosecutor, because the war crimes prosecutor has the authority to order all the state authorities to carry out these measures and to do so; therefore, there is a pool of all the information that the war crimes prosecutor would have the opportunity to make a decision, whether to put a request for an investigation, and depending on the court's decision, whether to press charges or not in the course of the proceedings. It is a fundamental change, and this is another step in our criminal trial law towards a prosecution investigation and an increase in the authority that the war crimes prosecutor has in these cases. Since I am fully convinced that there is no one here, that there are no MPs and that there are no citizens of this country who have no deep confidence that any reasonable doubt and any reasonable doubt that any crimes of war crimes have been committed, I am convinced that by adopting this law, we will meet this deep will and desire of every civilized man, and these are the people and citizens of this country. I've been given a lot of questions, and I'm happy to answer everyone I know the answer to. [[Applause]] Mrs. Radeta, I really heard it for the first time today when you said there was supposed to be a debate in law school and I really don't have any knowledge. He's out of his mind, I have no right, he's not in the spirit of the principles that I run, dealing with politics, to have any desire or intention, or to try to ban the maintenance of any sort of thing. This is a free country, and people need to give their opinions and opinions, and I will always support that, especially when I disagree with those opinions and attitudes. Here, an MP expressed his confidence that it was necessary to go out with a lawsuit against forces that conducted combat operations in the past, further and closer, when the most serious crimes were committed against our people and there were genocides against Serbs. The international legal order is designed to deal with these lawsuits by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It was established on the basis of the UN Charter and only UN member states can be parties to the dispute. So, forces from World War I and World War II as such no longer exist, so we have no one to press charges against. There are political declarations left, and I think someone here reminded me that the American Congress has brought in one declaration that Turkey has done certain acts that have qualified this body properly, but I just don't think it's the subject of our debate here, but it's part of the foreign policy of one of the forces that matters in this world. As for Judge Gordana Bozilovic, president of Belgrade's District Court, he is, by law, the only one authorized to propose, or not to propose, but to appoint judges to the War Crimes Council. The judge's term of office, as well as the deputy prosecutors and prosecutors, lasts four years. Since Mrs Bozilovic has expired, then whoever is the only one authorized has decided that she is no longer a member of that council and is no longer there, as far as I could see from the professional point of view, too many objections, but I see that some legal circles have had certain objections, but I simply don't think it's the domain of the Justice Ministry. In any case, the Supreme Court Supervisory Board has full capacity to, if it considers that there are certain irregularities and injuries, reacts to all of this. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has asked a parliamentary question. I don't see if Mr. Sarovic is here, so it's certainly important that the notice is not up until 4 October 2007, the Justice Ministry received this parliamentary question. Yesterday, an answer to this parliamentary question was sent. I won't put too much pressure on you, because you'll all get it and read it. The point is that the Vranj District Prosecutor's Office is currently working on a translation from Albanian language of several tapes that were on TV show. The length of the length of these tapes is about 260 minutes and because, here, many colleagues are lawyers and they know it, in criminal proceedings they need to have a really very precise factual state, this translation, as I understand it, will be done through RTS, the Public Service, and as soon as it is obtained, the prosecution will be able to make its decision. Mrs. Radeta has raised another very important issue, which has been raised in public these days, and it is also very important in my court. It's about the convicted Emir Šišic. The district court in Novi Sad has, by law, been authorised to decide on a request for parole that the convicted Emir Šisic has sent. This is a specific case, because Emir Šisic is on the basis of a decision by the District Court in Novi Sad to confirm the judgment of the Italian court, which gave Šisic the verdict for the criminal offence for which he was convicted. That verdict was made on the basis of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. The signatories of that convention are our country, the signatories of that convention, along with a large number of other countries, and Italy. And because of one case, it is legally said, with a foreign element, the Novi Sad District Court has sent a request to the justice ministry to notify under what conditions the Republic of Italy has signed this convention and under what conditions a decision has been made in Italy on the transfer of Emir Šisic to Serbia. I think the District Court in Novi Sad is on one, I'm going to step over my authority a little bit, but I think they've done the right thing, because they've asked for all the essential elements to be established, I'm not going to enter into whether that decision is legal or not, it's going to be decided by the Supreme Court, because the Constitution and the law require it, but I want to inform you that the Republic of Italy has signed the Convention on the transfer of convicted persons with certain reserves and that these reserves need to be examined how much they can be of the impact on the decision-making of this court. What comes out of the domain of law now and enters the domain of politics, that's the thing that here is completely legitimate to discuss. Emir Šisic came in a position to maintain a sentence in Serbia for the crime he was convicted of in Italy, because the Republic of Serbia was able to convince the Italian authorities that the country in which there is a fundamentally regulated legal order and that the Republic of Serbia is a country that will respect all the conditions under which the convicted Sišic was transferred to maintain his sentence here in Serbia. It is necessary that we lead as a political body, I mean this Parliament, the Government, the President of the Republic, every day, at every moment, very much counts on the capacity and credibility of Serbia and that we do not violate that capacity and credibility. Because of some cases that will occur in the future, but I think about one thing that exists now, and I want to share with you something that the vast majority of you certainly knows: at this time only in Croatia 21 the convicted person of Serbian nationality endures punishment; eight people are convicted of war crimes in Croatia and they are asking to be transferred, transferred from Croatia, from prison to Lepoglav, to support the sentence in Serbia. Is it our interest to create conditions for these people to endure a sentence here in Serbia or to stay in Croatia to maintain the sentence until the moment the Croatian authorities assess that they should be deprived of their freedom? My deep confidence is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that we should fight for these people to have the opportunity and opportunity to support this punishment here in Serbia. We can only do that if this country has credibility, if it shows that it is capable of fulfilling its international obligations as a good, well-organised legal country. It is a political fact, and whether the decision of the District Court in Novi Sad is legal or not will be decided by the Supreme Court, because as we could all from the means of public information to find out, a complaint has been filed for that decision, and the Supreme Court will decide on that appeal. As for all the laws that are under the Constitutional Law of Presumption to hold elections, they are in the process of the government establishing a proposal, the ministries giving their opinions on these laws, so that is a fact. Because of the abundance of information, it's no wonder sometimes there's some kind of failure, but here's what we all know exactly what it's about. It's very important, given the different views on whether the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is doing its jobs in a good way or not, to present a few facts. The war crimes prosecutor's office has prosecuted, opened a criminal case against 105 people. At the moment, they are accused before the District Court War Crimes Council in Belgrade of 42 people. It's about cases where they're covered, all these criminal procedures, situations where 2,156 victims were killed. I am convinced that you share my confidence and my great desire to get an answer to whether these faces are responsible for the death of 2,156 people or not, and to share my belief that this is not possible in another way but in court. I am convinced that you are also sharing my belief that for us as a state and for us as citizens of this country, or to say, first and foremost for us as citizens of this country, it is important that we in Serbia have the ability and the possibility to bring such crimes to an end here in Belgrade. That is the answer to the question why such a law, when it is all opportunity, leads to the end of the work of the UN tribunal. Because here in Belgrade, either in Nis or in Novi Sad Serbia, it is my deepest belief, it must have the ability to determine whether those who have been killed by criminal acts, whether they have been killed as victims of crimes against humanity or international law, because it is important for every man who lives in this country. The important thing is that we can do it and to do it we have to have the right instruments so that the prosecution and the courts can do it. So that there is no confusion, as part of the proceedings currently being handled by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, that is, the procedures in which they act as prosecutors are also the proceedings against the Orahova Group, the Tuzla Column, you heard, you saw and you know that there is a major controversy between BiH and Serbia whether Ilija Jurisic should be transferred to Sarajevo or not. We don't have any dilemmas, because the simple law very clearly regulates this situation. It is about Tuzlana column, a large number of JNA youth, primarily those who had Serbian citizenship at the time, who were injured while withdrawing from Tuzla, and Iliji Jurisic is being tried here in Belgrade. And the Doctor's case, which has been properly completed, in all these procedures are the victims of primarily Serbian nationality. Also, the war crimes prosecutor's office co-operates with the Croatian judiciary, although there have been different views of the issue in the case of 'Lora', in the case of Osijek, where Glavas is accused, as well as in the case of Atif Dudakovic, who is in the procedure in Sarajevo. These are the things that are good. We are, of course, very closely following how these procedures are taking place, as everyone is following very closely how the procedures are taking place here in Belgrade. It's natural and we have nothing to be ashamed of. We say -- look, we're a country that's capable of processing these most serious crimes. This is also the answer to Mr Batic's question, which opened some cases that were not closed. Of course, the war crimes prosecutor is, above all, a person or instance and a state body who can give a detailed answer to these questions, but it is certainly important to say that there are still a very significant number of cases. Anyone suspected and suspected, founded above all, of committing these crimes, of being subject to trial. So, I will answer Mr Krasic as soon as possible, the fourth questions were sent from the session, that is, on the working day we discussed the law in principle. I will answer you in any case to this parliamentary question about the request that Deputy Prosecutor Bogdan Stankovic made, and to see if it happened or didn't and how things are going. Without further ado, I can safely show you once again what I am deeply convinced of, as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia and as a citizen of this country. For every man who lives in this country, for every citizen, Serbia, for our children and for those who will only be born, it is of invaluable importance that we ourselves be able to determine whether, no matter who, no matter what nations or what faiths he has committed any of the crimes of war crimes. Serbia is a country that is deeply rooted on the basis of European civilization. People who live in this country, both Serbs and national minorities, are people who deeply believe that it's evil to kill, that it's evil to steal. As citizens of this country, we have the right to determine what has happened in our immediate past. It is a pledge for Serbia's future, and I am sure that every one of us here, no matter how politically we differ, we believe in Serbia's future. That's why I invite you to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9740	I thank Minister Petrovic. Here you go, Veronica. Wait a minute, have patience, now we're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9741	Thank you. This is a replica of Mr. Secretary's presentation. For two things, Mr. Petrovic, I will commend you. First, you have shown that you have really listened very carefully to every MP and that you have made an effort to give your answer to each and every one of you here. The second thing to praise you for is that you have informed the Serbian public that the spokesman DS, Miss Jelena Markovic, deceives Serbian citizens. What I object to you, when it comes to Emir Šišić, I did not ask you for no reason, because I know perfectly what the powers of you as minister are. But these days I've been able to, and we've all been able to read how, I'd say very awkwardly, you've interfered with the case of Pahomia, how you announced the appointment of some judges. So then she "sabreka", it is, you know, Sonja Brkic, who was elected Supreme Court President during the "Sabbe" action, in a closed session, without the public presence, she, by no means, appeared in the media, she began to order judges of the Supreme Court to be replaced for the trial in the Pahomia case. It was somehow a cause for me, and otherwise I think that as a minister you must do everything in your jurisdiction, and in the power of the government, of course all judicial authorities, that Mr. Emir Šisic should come to his house and his family. When you were commenting and saying it out loud that you're a very good Democrats, I wrote this, and that's why I have to watch, someone else's opinion, this is a democratic state, this is a free state, in this country everyone can say everything they have to say, I'm talking about the debate at law school, which I said we have reliable information that you banned it, you just said you didn't ban it, but what you said you actually said is that you did. Because you said it like this -- I'm going to fight to get everyone's opinion out, especially if you don't agree with that opinion. How do you know that you would disagree with what Gordana Bozilovic, Goran Petronijevic and lawyer Vujin would say on the stands? So, you knew, and that's exactly why you banned it. So, it's the exact information we had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-31-0.u9742	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. After we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, the President will, under Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set a day for the vote, which you will be later informed of. Today's session is over. We'll continue when the president's scheduled. Thank you. I apologize to my friend Zoran Krasic.
