ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize on behalf of President Oliver Dulic, who is on the Legislative Committee that is just finishing work, but in order not to waste any more time, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 124 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Aleksandra Jerkov, Dusan Mrvos and Cedomir Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8286	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Article 225. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and given that the National Assembly will most likely not work the next day or Saturday, I would like to take this opportunity to inform the MPs and our public that, as you know, October 20th Belgrade Liberation Day in World War II is from the German occupiers in 1944. I would like to remind you that at that time, even in official history, on the official Belgrade government site, Belgrade has freed units of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia and the Red Army. As you know, there is also the Cemetery of Belgrade Liberation. Several thousand People's Liberation Army fighters in Yugoslavia and about 1,000 members of the Red Army have lost their lives in operations to liberate Belgrade. And today it is celebrated as the Day of Liberation of Belgrade. About 20 days ago, in this same National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we could hear stories about fascism, anti-fascism, Nazism and other phenomena that we believe are still present in Serbia. As you know, the SPS is an anti-fascist party, but I want to remind you, those of you who exercise power in Belgrade, when you mark October 20th, is likely to be the one who now plays the role V.D. The mayor or I don't know what to do but, by what you did in Belgrade, talk about that date. I'd just ask the one who's going to talk about it: where are the streets of those who set Belgrade free? If they're so important to you, why did you change the streets with their names? Peko Dapcevic commanded the units of partisans that freed Belgrade. Do we have his street? You've turned the Red Army Boulevard into a South boulevard. A very inspiring name. You could've at least invented some new DOS champion revolution. Tolbuhin Street - Do you know who Marshal Tolbuhin is? He commanded units of the Red Army that freed Belgrade - you changed his street into David Mackenzie Street. You know who Mackenzie is? Professor of the University of North Carolina, author of a biography of renowned Serbian history champions. You turned General Zdanov Street into Resavska Street. And do you know who General Zdanov is? He died on the day he came to mark Belgrade's release and there is a monument where their plane fell. (President: I thank you, Mr. Dacic.) ) You changed the street of Mark Oreshkovic in Sevina Street, by a bird of sex, which is common in that area of the street. You've changed Sima School Street. Now it's called Moor's Street. Do you know who Mozer was? Mozer was Mayor of Zemun during World War II. (President: Thank you, Mr. Dacic.) ) You have placed Milan Nedic in the hundreds of most famous Serbs, who was the prime minister of the capitulant government during Hitler's Germany; and you are talking about the fight against fascism. If you want to fight Fascism, then be anti-fascists until the end and do not be ashamed of those who freed Belgrade and celebrate that day, and you will celebrate it on Saturday, October 20th 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8287	Please stick to the time. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Dacic is right in most cases. Only this Marko Oreshkovic, I don't know what he owed the Serbian people for, I don't know that he participated in the release of Belgrade, I don't know that he defended any Serb anywhere. We know some very bad, mostly anti-Serbian, ideas he's inherited, but I don't want to discuss it now. What's interesting is I would add to this list, to this anti-fascist government, as it seems, people are going to smile here, even though it's quite unfortunate what I'm about to say. For example, Jelene Cetkovic Street changed its name, believe it or not, that is, the miraculous city government, the democratic city government, changed the name of Jelena Cetkovic Street to Lipa Street. What's to be Jelena Cetkovic Street when it's Lipa Street? You are the man Zarko Marinovic, who was killed in 1936 - killed by the gendarmes - declared communist and said that he had received the street by ideological principle, and also took that street. There is no streets of Marshal Tolbuhin, General Zdanov, none of those most responsible today that we live in a free city, not counting this partial occupation carried out by some Western forces, with the support of you who serve them. It would be good, those limes are wonderful here on Starry, really wonderful, but try to be a little more original and make sure that these ideological commissions that change the streets make sure that people who were really folk heroes, who fought for the freedom of this people, don't take the right to, I would say, live in the memories of our children and those who should learn on their examples. I went out because of one particular problem. I would like to warn you that today is the tenth day as Belgrade Zoo Director Vuk Bojovic strikes hunger. The tenth day that there are no talks on how to solve the problem in the garden itself and how to help, and that Mr. Bojovic will end the hunger strike. On behalf of the SRS yesterday, I went to visit him and I didn't want to abuse anything, as you could see through the press, for political purposes. My only advice to him was to try to find a common language with the city authorities, try to agree, because it is in no interest to welcome any tragedy, and it is even less in the interest of our city to lose the zoo, to lose one of the signs not only of Belgrade but of all Serbia. It's obvious that there are some unreasonable people in the city administration and I don't want to talk about whether and what choices should be held or not, what should be happening right now. Just ask for a little reason, please know that the question is when and how many people can really endure if they strike hunger - Mr. Bojovic strikes hunger, he has already significantly weakened - to take care of it because it would be very bad for both Belgrade and Serbia if we had, I would say, an unfortunate, bad or tragic outcome of everything that happens because of the irresponsibility of the representatives of the city authorities in Belgrade. Once again, with gratitude for your attention, I urge you to take care of the essential interests of the citizens of our country. I'm not going to talk about campaigns every day against those who are for the freedom of this country, against those who have always been on the side of anti-fascists, sometimes, but they are on this side today, which is more important, because I don't think we can only live on the glory of those who fought for this country 60 and 70 years ago, or 90 years ago, but we need to do something to make sure that we don't break it. It's not our greatest value either, Solana or Ollie Rehn. The greatest value is our children, our cities, our villages, our Serbia, that's what we need to protect, and that's where we need your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8289	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people Ivica Dacic came again, and the Messenger of the people, Zeljko Vasiljevic, and the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8290	Since Mr. Vukic mentioned me, I really appreciate the opportunity to get a few more minutes, but I want to say that personally I absolutely don't want to go into the grade of anyone whose street, whose name was changed. It can be debated, but I don't see that Zemun's bird played a bigger role than any other. But if it doesn't turn out to be the municipal government in Zemun, it's a city government decision, and I just want to make it clear, that I don't turn out to be attacking any political party individually who, at this point, may not be guilty of that. I want to say about a tendency that is here, in this assembly, started. You're complaining about the ones from "Stroy" that demonstrated in Novi Sad, and here, in this assembly, you've evened out those who fought the occupiers with those who collaborated with the occupier during World War II. You named the street, so instead of Sim School - Moorov. The Moors were the founders of the Navipa, and one of their family was Mayor of Zemun during World War II. Is he the liberator of Belgrade? In the book on the most famous Serbs, Milan Nedic, who was the prime minister of the capitulant government, was the government during Hitler. Imagine Serbia today, which will be occupied, for example, by the United States and in which someone will find himself to be the prime minister of this party, who, for example, is not here today and will later be the liberator of Serbia and the savior of the Serbian people. No, he will be a traitor and will be a collaborator, as Milan Nedic was. Therefore, because everyone else in Europe was such, Milan Nedic called a cabinet session on October 3rd and all fled to Austria, where all the governments that were during Hitler's Germany escaped. But it's not Milan Nedic's fault. It's our fault, today, after 60 years, that we forget our history. A people who forget their history may be condemned to relive it, and when we say this, let us remember all that has happened in the past month in this same congregation and see if we are all a little guilty, because we forgot what happened from 1941 to 1945. And the same thing that happened between 1941 and 1945 could happen over the years, and it could happen in the years to come. Fascism, and the desire to dominate and create a new world order, is not dead. That's why antifascism is still alive. I would like to say one more sentence: one of the DS MPs was on TV last night, I think, said he was amazed to see what Mrkonjic is chairing, and Borka Vukic is speaking. And it's fascism. Oliver Dulic apologized for what he said about this speaker when he became president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have the right to think of us as you wish, but you must respect the will of the people. The will of the people is greater than anything we think of each other. And so, I hope that's awkwardly spoken, not that it's a tendency. I am astounding to see many of you in this congregation, and we should not look at them, but I respect the will of the people. I am pleased to see you here, and I hope you will be there, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, not as vice president and vice president, but as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8291	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, and the Messenger of the people Zeljko Vasiljevic, and the Messenger of the people Riza Halimi, and the messenger of the people, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Cenzier, I am taking the opportunity to welcome His Excellency, Ambassador to Cuba, Mr. Huli-Kanzi Ferrer, who is upstairs at the gallery - respect, Excellency - because this topic simply affects the people of the Republic of Cuba today against the fascists of the new world order, America and Western forces. But since this topic has been launched, I will very briefly, as long as the Rules of Procedure allows, to meet on October 21st. You know that I am from Kragujevac, and unfortunately there is a people in Serbia, in the First World War, here in the part of Serbia, I am not talking about Serbian countries, the most injured, and that in one day, 7,000 students and citizens of my city were killed by German fascists. The same situation has occurred since the five-octobaric coup in Serbia and Kragujevac. The witnesses are colleagues, both Professor Posukrica and Dr Vučićevic, who is also an opposition to the Kragujeva city government all these years, that for no reason the Kragujevci authorities changed the names of the streets of those who defended us from fascists and who fought after genocide that was carried out over our people on 21 October 1941. It affected DS and DOS authorities, later Veroljub Stevanovic, which streets bear the names of the 17th task force, Moša Pijada, Dusan Dugalic. However, they will be judged by history and the people in the next election, when we will correct many of the mistakes they have made, not by accident, but deliberately over the past seven years. But based on the story I heard, because it would really still be a lot of me to watch a lie like Studio B, as a television that is funded by the citizens of Belgrade, who have a fake mayor, but I heard it, and I've been told by my colleagues since this morning and my family, that Mr. Stanimirovic, along with the whole click last night, at that informal rally, is a gossip party, as it is already called where he participated, that he says he has to pinch himself and that he, Milan Stanimirovic, is in 2007, when Milutin Mrkonjic is chaired, and I sit on his right hand, and Mrs. Borka Vukic is behind the pay phone. I think, Mr. Stanimirovic, that you first need to pinch and see where your morals, honor and conscience are. Did you lose it on your way home from coming to Belgrade and have you forgotten, just like your Democratic Party? do you see that I'm not going to speak to you personally, I'm talking about the political party that brought us into this situation where we are now, for the past seven years, that the people are out of work, that people in every respect are disfigured, satanized, that you've destroyed everything that is the fluid of a heroic struggle of a nation over a period of gruesome four years when we fought against fascists here? And then you have nothing and nothing to talk about. You should talk about yourself and look at how disastrous politics has been implemented by the regime that you've been personifying for the past seven years and how long it will take us to return freedom to the people and bring Serbia back to where it belongs in the world. And Serbia is not only in America and the West, Serbia is both in Cuba and Venezuela, Serbia is in all of Latin America, Serbia is in Africa and the Middle East, Serbia is in China, Russia, Serbia is in a whole fair world that wants to help us preserve Kosovo and Metohija and fight for our people's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8293	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic withdrew his discussion. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi came to the word, then the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: let the doctors come out.) Come on, let's get our fellow doctors out. Thank you to the doctors. Here you go. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, by this question, return to the issue of higher education, on the basis of Article 226, on the basis of Article 226. A decision by the Minister of Education in 2002 solved the very sensitive problem of a Pristina University diplomat that was not recognised in 1991-2001. The decision to recognise a Pristina University diploma was very important because about 80% of Albanian national students from Presevo Valley are studying at this university, while others are enrolled at the universities of Albania and Macedonia. It is known that at the universities of Serbia, we do not have any regular students from this area, both for linguistic, economic and political security reasons. Despite the official recognition of Pristina University diplomats, however, from 1991 until these days, students of the area have been denied the right to use the republican fund for the student standard because they are automatically rejected when they apply for student scholarships and loans. The reason for the refusal is that it is a higher school institution whose founder is not the Republic of Serbia. In princip, this is about the problem of non-recognition of UNMIK's documentation, which has very harmful consequences for this area and in other areas of life. But on this occasion, I point out the importance of this issue, so I ask the Minister of Education: what will he do to solve this serious problem in order to finally enable young Albanians of this area to use, even with their peers, a fund for student standards and, for starters, to at least exercise their right to student scholarship and loans? In parallel with this issue and how important it is to address the nostrification of university diplomas acquired in Albania and Macedonia because there is currently a very colorful practice that varies in a wide range from university to university. Autonomous assessments of university structures graduates at the universities of Albania and Macedonia are due to take from one to eight additional exams or, even, as in the case of the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Novi Sad, we have a moment not to recognise a degree in pharmacies acquired at the University of Tirana at all. The Bologna Declaration is likely to address this problem in the future, but it is necessary that recognition of neighbouring countries' diplomas be resolved more urgently by interstate agreements because this is an existential issue, so I think the ministry should urgently address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8295	I thank the People's MP, Riza Halimi. The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vukic, who also advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time I have to agree with Mr. Halimi in part. I don't understand why students from Pristina, who are citizens of this country - is that right, Mr. Halimi - and it will always be - is so, Mr. Halimi, that I understood your discussion - so I'm glad that Mr. Halimi finally told the speaker that students of the Pristina University are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they will be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these little things about loans, student funds, etc., we will immediately resolve this, Mr. Halimi. We'll figure it out right away. It is important that your will and the will of the students in Pristina live in this country. I think this is a very significant statement from Mr. Halimi. She deserved to be welcomed by applause. That was remarkable, Mr. Halimi! This is the first time you have made it clear and loud from the assembly speaker, unlike the representatives of some Serbian parties, that Pristina is Serbia and you have to get all the rights. All students from Pristina, regardless of their nationality, whether the Albanians, in most cases, are Serbs or members of some other national groups, national communities and ethnic groups, must have all the rights of the republican budget that Belgrade students, Nisko University, Kragujevacki, Novosadski etc. have, in most cases. I'm very grateful, Mr. Halimi, for this. I would just like to ask you once again to come out, possibly to confirm with certainty, to cheer up all the citizens of this country, to cheer up all your voters and say, "I, dear fellow Members of the People, will always fight to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia." I'm out for something else, ladies and gentlemen. I came out because in recent days I have noticed in the media an incredible equalization of impossible things and a re-creation of stories about the Serb people in which Kosovo and Metohija are not important, and it is important that they meet some of their own, of course, obligations towards The Hague tribunal for an unknown reason for us. And if we don't know what this is about, and all of our state officials are dealing with The Hague tribunal, and - forgive me, Your Excellency, Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, which I must say in your presence - Mr Urstad's OSCE representative has held back to protect himself... Not to stand up for protection, but to pursue those who, in a legitimate and legal way, have criticised the war crimes prosecutor, his spokesman and others who are doing their job against the law. By the way, that's the prosecutor who said: you have to understand the Croats are angry about letting Radic go, etc. Because he knows Radic is a murderer and a criminal, he knows it better than the UN tribunal. Little The Hague tribunal is what kind of villain Vukcevic would be here, how many years would he condemn them. And if you say two words against a man like that, that's where their dad, capo di tutti and capi, some Urstad, shows us lessons. I have to tell you, I'm not one of those people who likes to listen to lessons. With ambassadors when I speak, representing once my party, once my country, depending on what level and how I talk to them, I speak as a representative of this nation and this country. We don't have a spare country. And it doesn't occur to me that they determine for me and that they order us to do what we can and in what way we can speak, so they interfere with whether it's a television broadcast of the congregation or not. Well, that's what MPs decide, Serbia's citizens decide, not Urstad or I don't know who does.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8297	That's right, Mr. Wolfie, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8298	Just one more second, Mr. Grouchy. So, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I'm just asking you not to let them humiliate us so much that you no longer know what to do or how to do. That you do not understand what you have done to God, that you do not understand that, at the moment they tell you, they will take away Kosovo and the Metohija from us, to destroy and destroy Serbia. We've got Ollie Rehn's mind, and she says: Serbia is like a bad student, who I guess the day before the exam takes a book and starts studying.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8299	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8300	Thank the people and citizens of Serbia who can take it, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8301	Call again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8302	I end up in one sentence. Is there anyone who will tell him: we are not your children, we are not your students; we have your country and say it there in Finland, say it anywhere else; we are not going to conflict with you; we are not going to have anything against you, but, people, we want to be our own and decide the future of our children and nothing more. Somebody do it in this country!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8303	I thank Mr. Wolf. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8304	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. Now, according to this article, I am primarily speaking to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, and particularly to the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. This morning, I read in the daily "Justice" list, and I assume that you too: ANA threatens Serbia. That's the address. And he says: the announcement by the terrorist Albanian National Army will take control of the northern part of Cosmet unless they do so by November 1st. So this isn't the first time it's been published today. This attempt to intimidate Serbia by the terrorist organisation has been present for some time on our political scene. On some media, like the yellow B92 television, we watch as they intimidate us with those scary characters of the terrorist organization, with phantoms on their heads, armed to the teeth. This is what illegal authorities in Kosovo and Metohija do. But what is worrying and disturbing is the reaction in this part of Serbia. A reaction from some politicians who, say, Gard Cara Lazar, a group of patriot boys who want to help their people in Kosovo and Metohija, are equating with this terrorist group. What is particularly worrying and disturbing is the fact that Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic told media two or three days ago that Serbia will do everything to curb extremist groups on both sides. My question to Mr. Boris Tadic is: what are the extremist groups on the Serbian side and which group, as president of the Republic, compares them with the terrorist group ANA? This is very important. Maybe someone might think this is a day-to-day policy thing. Believe me, it's not. If the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, says he will curb the functioning of extremist groups on both sides, then it means that Boris Tadic acknowledges that there are some extremist groups in Serbia. There is an ANA on Serbia's territory, but it's a terrorist Shipage group. What is the extremist group in Serbia that Boris Tadic promised to contain the other day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8305	Thank you. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati came forward, and then again, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Riza Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8306	I'm reporting under Article 226, relating to Article 64. Last night I watched Studio B a show that propagated hate speech and a lot of lies, especially about us Serbian radicals. One unfortunate man on the show says nationalists in the Serbian parliament are worse than fascists. Imagine! It is also a finding that Serbia is heading towards fascism. That bastard's not here to talk to him right now. However, I ask the Committee on Culture and Information to examine the work of Study B, whether it is in accordance with the law, whether it is working on the interest of Serbian citizens, especially Belgrade, which finance it, or whether it is doing propaganda of one party or one idea or others who want to represent Serbia at the time... as the god's beginning of fascism that will rule. It's not the first time. The journalist did not act as a journalist last night but confirmed that the SRS is more dangerous than fascists, etc. and such nonsense that cannot possibly be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. If he's a drunk, he should be fired. A drunk can't run a show. Secondly, I can't believe the whole Board of Directors of Study B are drunks. Then everyone has to answer. Or to run a policy according to the law and be represented as they are, Studio B to be objective, or to change the name and be called Studio D and to say: we are no longer on the budget of the city of Belgrade, and to do whatever they want, so we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8307	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Let's move on to the discussion after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8308	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that Mr. Vukic is well informed about all the problems in this country, with the fact that, for his better information, I add that Albanians in this area – and I call it the Presevo Valley, so if that suits you better, the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja - have been participating in the multi-party parliamentary elections since December 1990. Then, since May 1992, they have been participating in multiparty local elections. It means there's no dilemma about it. That's why students from this area have always exercised their student standards in the Republic Fund in Belgrade. That was until 1991. And 16 years ago, they have been prevented from exercising these rights in the state where they live, in which they pay taxes and in which they have to exercise all human and civil rights. In this regard, I point out, several times from this pay phone, that in the field of education there are a series of very sensitive unresolved problems, starting with programs, textbooks, and high education is intact. Currently, the problem of higher education for Albanians Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje is an unresolved issue on which the ministry must have a far more serious approach. This is just the beginning, when we talk about scholarships and loans. This problem must be considered far more seriously than ever before and dealt with. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8309	We're continuing the discussion since yesterday. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC InterpretATION OF ARTICLE 127. Article 1 And Item 2. LAW ON Higher EDUCATION National MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8310	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, we return to yesterday's agenda. In relation to everything that was heard yesterday by all colleagues who participated in the debate, or almost all, it is undeniable to accept the position of the Legislative Committee, and that this authentic interpretation should be accepted in the way it was proposed, and thus put an end to an open question regarding the application of the Law on Higher Education. Because it is indisputable, from the legal point of view of this question, that I cannot question the rights acquired. But it must also be acknowledged that yesterday by a number of colleagues, as regards the discussion of this member of the law and in general on higher education, there are many issues that need relevant answers. I'm not bringing this up by accident. What we heard yesterday and what we will probably hear today, and what has been happening in practice since the application of the Law on Higher Education, and I will remind you that the Law on Higher Education was adopted on 2 September 2005, all that is happening is that this interpretation of the Legislative Committee and should not have been the subject of the work of the National Assembly. It would be more logical, more comprehensive, more meaningful that the Ministry of Education came before the Assembly with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education. I say this not by accident, because over the past two and a few years there have been very many problematic situations, not only about the issue of masters but also about other issues related to the implementation of the Law on Higher Education. I don't think there was any need for students to get together to protest. The ministry should have responded to the very appearance of the need to take the appropriate view on this. You will admit, in practice, there will be a lot of problems because this question has not been properly addressed or explained so far, because we will have one practical situation that, by respecting acquired rights, someone who has completed a certain college in four years and acquired a proper calling, will now receive a call that involves five years of learning. Colleges, higher education institutions will, of course, find ways to explain the weight of the subject, the number of points and the like, they'll find an explanation that it's okay, but, formally, we have a practical situation. On the other hand, one of the colleagues mentioned, the law predicts it, the one who completes the master's program tomorrow can enroll doctoral studies, etc. So we put an end to one question. This opinion of the Legislative Committee is not controversial, but it is a bad thing that the legislator did not declare this. It is bad because it should not be left to the Legislative Committee to give legal interpretation to members of that and that. It should be fortunate that the Committee for the Education of the National Assembly also considered this issue. The point is that if the Committee is a parent for the Law on Higher Education, then it would be logical for it to take the appropriate stance on this matter and give its opinion. We heard several members of the National Assembly Enlightenment Committee yesterday. They raised the same attitude on this issue, but each in their own way opened up a dozen other questions. It would have been good if we had the Committee's position. That's not what happened. We could also hear that so far there are no criteria to explain this attitude. Otherwise, I did not accidentally say that after two and a few years since the adoption of the Law on Higher Education and the start of its implementation and that amendments to the Law on Higher Education should be made. For those who view this issue in another way, I will mention one of the most important reasons for me, which is the issue of compliance of the Law on Higher Education with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think many people have paid any attention to the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of the right to education. I'll quote Article 71. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "Everyone has the right to education. Primary education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is free of charge." Item 3: "All citizens have, on equal terms, access to higher education. The Republic of Serbia allows successful and gifted students of a weaker property status to have free higher education, in accordance with the law. The establishment of schools and universities is governed by law." Fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the right to education, will cause huge changes in the system of education in the Republic of Serbia and will lead to very small numbers, compared to the current situation, of graduate secondary school students being given the opportunity to be scholarshipd by the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying this by accident. I have a document on the state of Serbia regarding the degree of poverty. Statistically, it may be different, but it is an indisputable fact – I am not saying this on behalf of the SPS, or my fellow SPS MPs, that is what people who deal with poverty issues in Serbia say – that poverty has become a tendency in Serbia, that the whole situation is after 2000, privatisation etc. led to about 640,000 people working in a gray zone, and over a million are unemployed. Statistically, Serbia is ten times poorer than Poland and five times Turkey. In Albania alone, the poverty rate is higher. One third of the population lives with less than 30 dollars or 1,650 dinars a month, 18% in terms of absolute poverty with less than 20 dollars or 1,100 dinars a month. Each tenth population in Serbia lives at a minimum of $2.5 or $17.5 a day. The characteristics of poverty are, of course, a large number of refugees and displaced persons, while more than 150,000 children are in the poor category, and more than 400,000 pensioners have the lowest pensions. Three-quarters of pension households in central Serbia and Vojvodina have been found unable to provide themselves with the most necessary food and medicine. Pensioners with minimum pensions do not have the means for basic provisions of life such as milk, meat and fruit. In 2006, 8.8% of Serbia's population was classified as poor. The rural population is 2.5 times poorer than the population of the city area. Then it is also mentioned what groups of poor people in Serbia are. I must mention that the highest percentage of the poor is recorded in households whose carrier is inactive (student or housewife), and is not a pensioner. I'm not saying this by accident. I have consciously taken this information to illustrate to you what is going on in Serbia and who will be the subject of the state's concern for higher education. This confirms what we Socialists have said: that higher education in the future will be a privilege of rich people and that, simply and therefore, Serbia is ill-written because a country that does not have a quality education has an objectively no future. A few days ago, a daily newspaper produced a very inspiring article by a social stream researcher, which discusses the World Bank's instructions to get laid in Serbia and to give pensioners, as well as the government's commitments to higher education. The next thing the World Bank said to some other countries that were in a similar situation, when pensions move to the budget, at some point the budget's bankruptcy will be declared and then pensions will not be possible, there will be some social assistance. For education, there will, of course, be a drastic crackdown on the country's obligations towards future high education users. This member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says there will be very few of those people, compared to the existing state, who will care about the state and who will be given free education. Namely, there are some statistics that only 10 percent of graduates could be subject to free study, those who are excellent students and who are weaker assets. I am saying this consciously because I think that this state of education story should be used and told about the state of higher education and the perspectives of Serbia. I think who knows which way, as a state, we hurried to implement something which is a question to what extent Serbia brings some benefit. When I say benefits, I mean, of course, the future. Because the Bologna Declaration is a recommendation, it's not an obligation that has to be applied overnight, and we've done everything we can to apply it overnight. The Bologna Declaration was accepted as a recommendation by other countries of Europe, both EU members and others, but did not immediately enter into the way in which the Bologna Declaration was applied, it immediately became part of the educational process. They waited to see what the Bologna Declaration had to do with facts, positive and negative, to see to what extent the positive fluids of the previous education system were kept. I think that we in Serbia have enough reason to say that the education system in Serbia was good, and in the former Yugoslavia, not perfect, but that it was good, and that it had as a product finished students who were very easy to fit into the education system around the world and were objectively easy to finish postgraduate and doctoral studies later and were leading experts in institutions. Our finished students, our graduate high school students, it's known, I'm not saying this to glancing for a while, but I'm saying what the education system was like, the graduate high school students, to say, won first place in numerous international competitions around the world, which is very illustrating in relation to the size of Serbia or SFRJ or SRJ at the time. This happened both 90s and 90s, which was very interesting in terms of the size of the country, the number of inhabitants and the number of people who are being educated. I mention this because there will be major changes in the system of higher education and this debate today needs to be seen objectively. In the SPS, we see this as an opportunity to make a public call to the Ministry to approach amendments to the Law on Higher Education, or to adopt a new law on higher education, because it is undeniable that we should preserve all the good values of the existing system of higher education and eliminate what has proved to be very bad in the meantime. Otherwise, about the master, I should say, because yesterday, one of my colleagues mentioned a situation related to the execution of the master program, or he mentioned that there were various cases. I have to mention by circumstances that the Ministry, apparently trying to put out the fire that is smoldering and to solve a number of disputed situations, has brought in one instruction that has been given to all universities and universities, where it has found a way to overcome this vacuum without saying that there are any other amendments to the law. I quote: School 2006/ 2007 master program can be entered by persons who have graduated from the relevant university in accordance with the rules applicable before the adoption of the Law on Higher Education. Until accreditation, this master program is implemented as an approved program by the Faculty of Science and Science, with the consent of the University of Greater. I'm saying this because I think it's necessary from this pay phone to calm down the situation, not to make it more explosive than it is, and to say that those people, those finished students who signed off or started the master program before the Assembly gave this authentic interpretation, because according to the presentation of all colleagues, it's undeniable that this will be accepted, they just didn't do anything wrong, or anything bad can happen to them. Those universities and universities that respected the ministry's recommendation worked in a legally valid manner and there are no problems for the higher education institution or the university. When I mentioned a lot of bad things that happened in the implementation of the Law on Higher Education, I can't help but mention one material that we received in the SPS parliamentary group. It is called Stavovi, the opinions and conclusions of the founders and directors of higher schools whose accreditation and quality check committee rejected the request for accreditation. In fact, the accreditation of higher schools was obviously everything, but we didn't get a proper position from the Ministry on this issue. However, it was part of the work of the former ministry, and the new ministry has taken over the problems. It would be good for the new ministry to plead here. I'm not saying this by accident. Since there was everything and everything, whoever wants to read in detail this document that we Socialists have received, and I hope that others, too, will see here things that, believe it or not, are such character to ask the question of whether there were such cases in our higher education system, and there was. For example, I will only quote illustrative things, that certain more schools, which were given to the Ministry a few months or a year ago by the Ministry and then the accreditation commission, were granted permission to establish a higher school and agree on a three-year curricula, as well as a solution to the regularity of technical, spatial and personnel conditions, were given a negative opinion and were withdrawn from work permits. Then one logical question arises: either the Ministry that gave them this permit was unprofessional or some other criteria were at stake. It doesn't make sense if the Ministry gives permission three or six months or a year ago, that the new commission will take it away. Otherwise, when it comes to the Commission, not to mention anyone personally, because it really is not my intention, the fact is that this commission has 15 members, that, for example, 10 or 11 in the field of natural sciences, and four or five or six, but what kind of structure, from social sciences, and then one subcommittee of three people visits a higher school, finds this situation, is even here the finding that not all were present, that it was not a worker of the Ministry that should be there, and then they decide to withdraw the work permit. Otherwise, when it comes to this aspect of the seizure, I quote, nothing personal: a broader analysis of the number of schools from the aspect of state and private ownership, i.e. whose founder is a state or another institution, gives interesting information – of the total 33 schools that received accreditation, all two schools are private; of the 27 schools whose accreditation was rejected, all one is state; the warning act received 18 schools etc. I'm saying this because we have to understand each other. The Constitution declares equality of all forms of property. The constitution declares the right to education. The constitution declares and promotes the right to vote. But the state of Serbia needs to know what it will do with itself and with higher education, and to make a strategy about it. The changes are waiting for us, they're at the door, but we need to eliminate these negative phenomena. When I mentioned negative phenomena, we had a situation that several schools that worked for 10, 12, 15 years, which in the meantime became known beyond the borders of this country, where foreign lecturers come, where distinguished guests come, where international co-operation was established—overnight they get a red card and their work permits are taken away. Not to mention that of these 27 schools, the example works, only a few were mentioned at the press conference, which objectively did great harm to these schools because the accreditation commission is only a first-degree body. The National Council for Higher Education follows, and some have been named losers in advance. Interestingly, at the time, there was insistence that there was no pressure and so on. Why am I saying this? We Socialists believe that the state absolutely needs to do everything possible to create a strategy in the area of higher education and that there are a very large number of students who will be the subject of a state scholarship. But also, given these earlier principles, and the equality of the form of property, and the right to study and to vote, that the results achieved in higher education must also be respected, that both higher schools and colleges that will come to accreditation, which in the past 10, 12, 15, 17 years have become known beyond the borders of this country, which have approved programmes, which have quality personnel and which have the right space, can absolutely continue to work. There must be change in the minds of many people, because many do not understand what they are wearing, from the point of view of changes in the area of higher education, this booklet I hold in my hand and called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We opened yesterday and today only one of the problems that are practically at the door and that require a solution. The Legislative Committee could not go below this, and it is logical that it has adopted this position, and we Socialists will vote for it, but I say once again, this debate has shown that there are many problems that actually require the need for the legislator to go to the professional public, of course, with those of which, with universities and then with others. Of course, it will eventually come before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to make as good a law on higher education as possible, and to see what is the strategy of Serbia, what is good and what is not; what is good to affirm and what is bad to leave behind. Because of Serbia, because a country that does not have a good education system is doomed, and that is, of course, something that none of us here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia wants. I am fully convinced of that, and it is not only the position of us Socialists, but I am fully convinced of all fellow MPs and the attitude of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8311	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. The Rules of Procedure promotes Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, then Dr. Vladan Batic advertises the Rules of Procedure, and let him prepare for the discussion Goran Davidovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8312	Article 93. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking yesterday, and this is an auto-correction actually and a way to correct what I was saying yesterday and the inaccuracies that I might have made, and it concerns mostly the last name of the man I was talking about. So, speaking yesterday about how legal solutions that have been offered are the source of many ambiguities and what is finally happening, that we are giving interpretations today and it is almost unnecessary for the Assembly to deal with this, but when it is already engaged, to deal with the ends and, explaining the reasons why, why not, when decisions taken as a sublegal act are made or reactions by individual authorities, let's say the dean, the school's director, can produce such vague items in the law and be subject to disputes, I mentioned the High Technical School in Tristenik and I said the wrong name of the school director. Now I am correcting myself: it is about Mr. Peter Ivanovic, who is the director of the High Technical School. So why did I mention it in what context? It's an object I hold in my hands, it was seduced in the office on 2 October 2007 and should probably be discussed at today's session of the Education Committee. This proves how much anarchy, how many riots, how many disturbed human relationships have produced the work of one man and his need to, as the supreme conductor or almost the owner of that private school, even if it is in agreement with the signatories of this memo, try to act within that organization. It even goes with incredible statements, in which the signature on the book requires – according to everything and everything, the laws on work, on higher education, the Statute and the Collective Treaty, in which one member states, it is not known exactly what it refers to – and gives an obligation, therefore one decree, that the most far-reaching requests for school accreditation will be made by the one who receives this decree fully fulfils his obligations on the basis of written tasks for his subjects. If he doesn't, in the second position, the second point, and the credentials are rejected, then he's guilty, he'll get fired. That man has to sign and that someone there assesses, you've already heard of the previous exhibitors, and now the man's gonna get fired. So then, that the instruction after being given fortunate accreditation, in which teachers must, in some ten points, among other things, make a script of up to 80 pages, to perform teaching techniques with a graphoscope, a video projector and exhibits. There's no other option that's out of the question. The passability must be 70%, which officially registers that 50% of students listen to teaching, so 20% of those who don't come to school have to go through. If not done, in point 2: failure to comply with those obligations after the specified deadline means insufficient and unquality preparation for work under new official standards and will no longer be tolerated, with possible consequences, including the rate of involvement of another teacher from school or other educational institution. So, you see the decretes, the memos, the behavior of the appointed directors. For free people wrote it, asked for an application from the inspectorate; additionally, it says in the material that he was running the union, calling union sessions, and otherwise, he can't be union-organized, because he's active as a director, looking for a shift, etc. So I just wanted to supplement that material, simplify who it is and what it is in Serbia today, according to the law that covers it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8313	I thank the People's MP, Professor. Hurry up. The commercial of the Rules of Procedure has Dr Vladan Batic, a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8314	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. I will remind you that yesterday I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to explain something that has become a very strange phenomenon, and these are threats from the Delta and Miroslav Miskovic addressed to the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs Verici Barac, the Competition Protection Commission, the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, etc. Last night, I had two anonymous threats. It's not a relationship because it can be a mere coincidence, it can be someone's evil intention. I'm not that paranoid, but the coincidence is very strange. One threat was: what you said today, don't let the dark swallow you! The second threat was, you were already in jail, don't get back in there, watch your mouth! And yesterday. I'm not accusing anyone, I'm not going to do speculation and I don't want to be paranoid. But yesterday I asked for an explanation whether Miroslav Miskovic was outside the law and above the law? Can he threaten everyone? Could he have a monopoly not only on trade but, unfortunately, on most of the media, but also on most political parties. Who says that in public? Members of the LDP parliamentary group, my smallness, as a member of the group and MP and president of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The rest is a conspiracy of silence. When we seek to determine everything that is unfair competition, which is a monopoly, which is the signing of a memorandum under the auspices of the Prime Minister, which is transferred to the Delta, which is a meeting with the Minister of the Interior, which promises to the former CEO of the C Market if he agrees to move the C Market into the ownership of the Delta, which I ask the question, which was both in the 'Blic' and 'Insider', how that the responsible persons of the Delta are abolized or amnestized by the pursuit of the Network. Here you go, gentlemen, the Network Action Scheme. There's Delta M and her pandan of Hemslide company from Cyprus. It's the facts, it's the truth, it's the evidence. Minister Jocic answered MP Slobodan Maras, when he asked the same question, that there was no act initiated before the internal affairs authorities. So there's no criminal record. Well, how come there's no police action in the police department? The questions were countless, and about the bankruptcy mafia and about many other things, but someone was obviously above the law. 'Cause last night, he was the main guest at the Bia celebration, just like in front of the head. A while ago, you remember, a guest at Chief Bia's, hand in hand with the then Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime and today's performer of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8315	Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8316	I'm done. So that's how it is in a country that is by corruption among the leading in Europe and the world. That's how it is in the country where we get the report yesterday that we are in the last place for the freedom of the media in Southeast Europe. That's the way it is in a country where everybody's quiet. You should also ask those political parties, who are very throats about some other people, why you're silent. Just one small remark, Mr. Stanimirovic, with all due respect and appreciation for your performance last night in the "Problem" show at Study B and your surprise, the disappointment of what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic presides in parliament. Mr. Stanimirovic, why didn't you say so when 13 ministers from your party took an oath to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic? I think that's when you applauded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8317	I thank Mr. Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, a National MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was asked by the President of the Accreditation Commission, Mr. Slobodan Arsenijević, to react because he has no ability to use the Assembly's pay phone and for the fact that the things that he chaired were so obvious to the Serbian public that I don't know why we would then manipulate and why the National Assembly would deal with some misinformation. That's what I'm saying because my colleague Obradovic just spoke about the work of the Commission and the fact that he himself is, therefore, a professor. Arsenijević, as well as his colleagues, was exposed to incredible threats, which by phone and other methods, which they tried to serve some who were dissatisfied, and the truth is that the commission, whose head he led, was solely run by standards and such a bad law that was made, but he defacto exists, he is in circulation. You wanted to license yourself, you wanted to see the state of high schools and colleges in our country. And then, when people who are absolutely committed, as a mentioned professor, do their job, and as regular professors at college and as people who are completely committed to science, there are no places for some stories that don't stand and statistics that don't really have a real foundation in serious work. I don't know the other members of the Commission, really. I've known Professor Arsenijević for many years, known by the Kragujevci public and his colleagues from the field of medical science throughout Serbia, especially because of the branch of medicine he deals with. It's amazing that they attack or protect each other at the expense of one another. There's no need for that. And, as the incorrect data that was just released tells the fact that it's just a private sports school, I think the Higher School for Coaches, got a license without a problem because they met all the conditions. The aim of the SRS in the process of promoting the Law and what is more and higher education back 17 years is just protecting students, protecting standards set by the establishment of Lice in the late 19th century in Kragujevac, which precedes higher schools and universities. I don't see any reason why you're now in the price of what's called higher and higher education, which really exists, you know, who are regular professors or assistants, or docents, or getting ready for those calls, someone is trying to abuse it for some petty political purposes. I guess the goal is to allow students to get a normal education, have a good quality of knowledge and education and to protect parents and students precisely from those who, through promoting higher education at a speed, where there are, say, 20,000 students and 100 lecturers, think that this is the way Serbia should go in the better future. So, I had this obligation, and I felt responsible, because the professor asked me to tell the truth for it, especially because of the fact that these anonymous letters, including some alleged criminal charges, went to the point where the unsigned dissatisfactions, obviously, or those who tied it to and bound it to some retrograde forces, to the former regime, sent a letter saying, "We're just looking at you," unsigned, resistance and seal. It is truly amazing what is happening in Serbia today after seven years, when, I believe, we who are opposed to such a policy have managed to expose everything negative, we will continue to do, and all the negative phenomena in our society. Some professional people and commissions that exist do their job. Whether those who do not meet the legal forms and standards will correct their mistakes and match their work with the law and standards that are prescribed, we will see it, but I think all these people should do without pressure, safe and responsible, as well as mentioning the professor so far worked and tried to honor his function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8319	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reported to the Rules of Procedure because it was obviously a misreading of what I said, because I also mentioned the Accreditation Commission, that is, this document and what was going on. I didn't mention any of the members of the Accreditation Commission, I won't do it now, and why a colleague needs to affirm one and defend it, I leave it to others to judge. I said what was true, that there were many, many, five times many problematic things, but that it was not only a problem for us MPs or those of whom it was, it was a broader problem in the education of the Republic of Serbia. That's why there's a National Council for Higher Education as a second-degree body, and that's why there are professional people, and that's why there's a profession that's going to evaluate what's out of it and what's not. It was everything, people. I have some information, but if I went further into that story, it wouldn't have turned out, believe me, favorably for this commission, but I don't want to talk about it. I just mentioned that we got one letter that points to numerous, numerous cases, by accident or on purpose, let the professional people decide. Our intensities are that professional people are about to determine what's been going on there. I am one of the MPs who voted for members of the National Council for Higher Education. I trust their attitude. If the National Council confirms the views of the Commission, fine. If he disproves the Commission's views, then it's fine with me again. So, professional people give a work grade. There's nothing personal about it. Please, I am taking this opportunity, to interpret members of this and that law, to point out the problems that lie in the higher education of the Republic of Serbia. There are problems and you will see when this amended law or a new law on higher education comes. After all, here, very competent people were saying yesterday, here, I'm exempting myself from that rally, but very competent people were talking about the problem of higher education for this interpretation. And I say the same thing, let the professional people say that these things stand, and there's absolutely no need for anyone to mention them individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8321	I thank Dr. Zarko Obradovic. The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to a member of the Rules of Procedure where I advertise that we don't understand what we're talking about right now, and it's important that we understand each other. First, of course, we are talking about one piece of paper today and it is good to discuss many of the problems that we face in the practice of executing Bologna. What is undeniable, I agree that there have been a lot of problems with the work of the Accreditation Commission, but this should be said: that this is a process that has started, that this is not the end of the process, that so far it has only been done with high schools, and that only now come to order, in the next three or four years, gradually to the university, so nothing can be concluded on the work of colleges. It could be about what they brought in for more schools. How's it going? Since it is voluntary, colleges who are willing to enter the accreditation and licensing process are registered, the first group has applied and will also be evaluated. What is the point, as the MP, Vice-President of Mrs Jovanovic's Assembly, said, is that the Commission exclusively works by law and by the rule that has been passed and does not deviate from it. And that, if you can argue, you say there are a lot of cases, should be said specifically in that case, and there was that. But also say that this commission was exposed to physical harassment, that there were gun threats precisely from those circles that told you what they told you. I know the whole story, so we're going to tell the whole story about the arrival of these people whose interests you're going to represent now, so they physically threatened the members of the Commission in other cities outside of Belgrade. So they go to the other center to threaten a person, and there's a witness to that. We'd better not open that story. The Commission is acting by law. You yourself have well said who is entitled to evaluate, and those who are not satisfied have the right and to complain, have the right and to review the process, to exercise all legal rights, and then, if material mistakes are made, they can be right. I fully understand Mrs Jovanovic for defending the integrity of the president of the Commission who cannot defend himself and the sea, it is he who is in charge and most responsible. It is a leader and he must bear responsibility for both good and evil in a commission. I wish everyone at the head of those working bodies were that way, that way, they'd get to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8323	Thank you, Dr. Pai Momchilov. According to Business, Dr Zarko Obradovic has again, so the MP Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8324	I'd like to thank my colleague, Momchilov. I think we share the same values, which is that the waist shows which things are good and which are not. That was the whole story about my exposure and the extra report, because I don't want to turn this story into a high school state, about the work of a part of higher education. On the contrary, I keep saying some professional people say what's right and what's wrong because, watch out, there are some bodies, we've formed a High Education Council, we, some MPs, voted here for them. They have their place in the higher education system in the Republic of Serbia, so they are also relevant to tell their court about it and should let the profession say itss. I absolutely don't want to go into any individual problem, I just think that we absolutely agree in one thing: that the profession should say the final opinion on everything, that those who don't meet the conditions didn't meet the conditions, because the conditions are prescribed, and those who have met the conditions - vice versa. Not by chance, perhaps fellow MPs have noticed, and perhaps not, at the end of my presentation I said, if I did not, then I apologize, here I am now going to say: The National Council for Higher Education will have to think this through. The National Council, not the Commission, because the Commission only applies certain criteria and gives its opinion. The National Council is second-degree, so you'll see how it's done. The National Council will have to think carefully about some criteria, because if all criteria are respected, or if some existing criteria do not change, a college that will receive a licence will be counted on the fingers of one hand. Everyone in the area of higher education knows that what I'm saying is true. I'm not talking about private, I'm not talking about state, I'm talking about higher school institutions. The National Council has a major role to play, in fact, implements the Bologna Declaration, to retain the values of what the educational system of Serbia does, and to eliminate what is bad, and of course to be in Serbia's interest and to meet the needs of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8325	I thank Dr. Zarko Obradovic. The word is given by MP Branimir Djokic – and he advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am asking one question to the Ministry of Culture, specifically Minister of Culture Voji Brajovic, on behalf of the Union of Essradic Artists of Serbia, on behalf of the Association of Essradic Artists, on behalf of the Union of Employers of Serbia and on behalf of the United Border Union of "Independence" Serbia. Since the law on culture is being prepared and we have received the draft law on culture given for consideration, we as an association of the largest in Serbia, the Alliance of Essradic Artists of Serbia, which brings together over 30 art associations throughout Serbia, have been trying for four months to get in touch with the Ministry of Culture, in particular with Culture Minister Voj Brajovic, and in a legal way we have sent letters. Now I'm just going to read you what date it was all sent to. That's sent in six. Seven. In 2007, Prime Minister Vojislav Brajovic of the Union of Employers of Serbia, the United Border Union of Independence, the Alliance of Essyradic Artistic Associations of Serbia and the Association of Essradic Artists of Serbia. The memo was sent, so six. 7, certified by the seal, signed by Mr Branislav Canak, Mr Ratko Ninkovic, Zlatko Stanojevic and myself. The second letter we sent was 28. 8. with the same request to receive a delegation from this most massive institution in terms of estradial work. Of course, we did not get an answer from another letter. The third letter we sent was one. 10, same confirmed, sent to the same address. Of course, we didn't get the answer. The fourth letter we sent was filed on October 11th, and to this day we have not received an answer. We were forced to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Culture and Information, Mr Slobodan Gavrilovic, president, to receive a delegation from these four most massive organisations of escrow artists here in Serbia. I ask on behalf of these organizations to respond personally and to be sent here to the Assembly: what are the reasons why Culture Minister Vojislav Brajovic has not addressed himself at all until this moment, at least in writing, to say the reasons why four months does not want to receive this delegation, when he has held consultations with many certain art associations? We wonder if he is the minister of only one number of artists in Serbia, or if he is the culture minister who should listen to certain artists from other areas and other esnafs. We expect to get a quick answer so we can forward it to our associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8327	I thank Parliamentarian Branimir Djokic. The word, finally, has a National MP, Goran Davidovic. Let the People's Messenger of Dr. Pai Momchilov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, certainly that when we talk about the Law on Higher Education, the law should in any case provide answers to many of the questions we have heard during the past and today. Of course, what is inevitable is that in any case we do not question the rights of those who have completed certain colleges by the time the Assembly Committee takes this position that we have had the opportunity to hear. I will remind you that Article 127 states: ''The persons that have acquired, or acquired an appropriate academic, professional or scientific name, according to the regulations which were in force until the entry into force of this law, reserves the right to use it in accordance with the regulations under which they were acquired. The person referred to in Article 1 of this Article may request from a higher education institution in which it has been designated to be subject to the procedure and under the conditions laid down in a general act of the higher education institution, and in accordance with the criteria for the harmonisation of acquired names prescribed by the Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, to establish that the previously acquired name corresponds to one of the names of the Member of the 95th Law. Where a higher education institution in the procedure referred to in Article 2 determines the appropriate name, it shall issue a new diploma in accordance with this law. Graduations under Article 3 may only be issued if an earlier issued diploma is declared invalid. If the higher education institution where the person referred to in Article 2 has ceased to exist and there is no legal follower, the ministry will designate a higher education institution to decide on such a request. ''I will remind you that in Article 95, there are practically many answers to questions that we have had the opportunity to hear here in the Assembly. First, paragraph 1 states that a person who completes the primary academic studies obtains a professional name, i.e. obtaining the first degree of academic studies for the relevant area. Then, the person who completes the basic vocational studies acquires the first degree of professional studies from the relevant area. On the other hand, the person who graduates from the specialist academic studies gets the professional title of specialist, with an indication of what the specialist is for, the second degree. The person who completes the specialist vocational studies, because we have both academic and professional studies, and in this case professional studies, obtains the professional name of specialists, with the indication of the second degree of these professional studies. A second-degree Master's degree Master's degree Master's degree in Master's degree, with an indication of the area he has mastered. The person who finishes his doctoral or academic studies in the third degree is named for calling a doctor of science, or a doctor of art, with an indication of the area. The list of calls from the relevant fields and abbreviations of professional, academic and scientific names shall be established by the National Council on a proposal from the University Conference, or the Conference of Academic Professional Studies. Professional name shortcuts shall be put behind names and last names, and abbreviations of the academic name shall be placed in front of names and last names. What may have, in a certain way, led to a confusion by applying the Bologna Declaration and by passing this new law, is that we have all forgotten the factor of time, that this is a process that takes place in one period of time and that we will have in this transitional period, to the final acceptance of the whole process, and certain difficulties that occurred in these interpretations. But if we want to translate these titles, which we talked about, under this law, into titles that would be recognised abroad, I want to point out that in international traffic and diploma, let's say in English, if someone finishes one of our colleges and wants to go abroad, here's what he's going to write on that degree. So, if the person has completed his primary academic studies or basic vocational studies, his degree in English will be bachelor, which is the name that we have earned under this law. If the face has completed basic vocational studies, then it gets the name bachelor appl. It's a calling that will stand in a diploma when he goes abroad, if he wants to get that translation into English. Based on the completion of the Master's degree academic studies, it means that when a person under this law completes the Master's degree of academic studies, he will receive the name of a master and then, on the basis of that title, he will wear the name master in translation, and the name derived from the position of the 6th member of the current law, where his doctoral studies are completed, he will have that kind of title. This way, I might say, we've done a good job of removing some of the problems with the interpretation. I was, under the circumstances, able to meet an electrician student who's finishing an electrical engineering college this year, who asked the question: what's she going to write on her degree? So, will her degree, after five years of studies, be written by a graduate electrical engineering engineer or a master, or will it be necessary to pass the master’s call, that student and those who end up in a specific case of this university, a certain number of additional exams? In any case, this is the way of calling, with the help of interpreting the law, will depend on the college itself. What is very important is that practically all the universities in the Bologna Declaration are obliged to access the accreditation process. I want to say that the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac is one of the first universities to join the accreditation process, which is really not at all naive and which in some way confirms the seriousness of a university, and of course the university that has such universities. In any case, I think by taking up a position like this, although I don't think there may have been any need in this way to take over, that a certain interpretation by the Ministry itself could have clarified many dilemmas, and given that the application of the Bologna Declaration is also relevant, and that this cannot happen in a short time, I think that this way we will remove many of the doubts and doubts that exist about the calling itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8329	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today discussing a relatively simple problem that has been presented to us through materials on two pages of a small format. I see that previous speakers have mostly tried to explain what the essence of the intervention we want to do, which we want to explain only the provisions of the Higher Education Act, which was brought into this home in 2005. I must remind you, the main reason for the adoption is as if we should approach the Bologna process, that this is the essence of the adoption of this law. We all know what the main objective of the Bologna Convention is. It is due to be applied by 2010 in Europe, which is the process that has begun, in which we have entered. It has two main objectives: to create a European space of higher education, unique as possible, although not identical, means allowing one width and elasticity in applying individual solutions and, of course, it is necessary to achieve a European system of transfer and accumulation of points, which is both a correction and an instrument that will identify students from different countries and allow them to pass from one country to another. As serious critics, when this law was passed, we from the SRS pointed to a series of problems that would arise from this law. Today we have one harmless situation that can easily be overcome, and I will explain it exactly, although others have done it before me, and I think most citizens are quite clear what it is. What I mean is, what should be said in any case: this is one good opportunity that we should take advantage of today, so let's see some other problems that are related to the application of the Bologna Convention, which in my opinion and the opinion of Serbian radicals, MPs in the National Assembly, are far more important and important, and are burdening the process of law enforcement and, in the end, the implementation of the Bologna Agreement. What do I mean? I want to say one more thing - to go back a little bit, so I don't want to talk about the past - when we Serbian radicals proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education, there was an interesting phenomenon, and now I'm going to make it public here: there were respected professors from other parties, and this party of position, authorities, and we asked us to propose amendments to which we would correct some rough irregularities that the Law had brought. Just so you know about the atmosphere in which it was brought and the uniqueness of the opinions of all those who need to decide. To deal with what we've been suggested. Once again a small prehistory - we had a good system of higher education, we can argue whether it's less or more good, and that system qualified that we had two degrees: we had undergraduate studies that, when you finished, qualified you to do some work, and we had postgraduate studies. What did Bologna bring? - three degrees: we have first degree, primary studies, so we have a second degree, where you have extra academic education and specialist education, and then you become a master, and you have a third degree that is a doctorate. What's the difference between this one and the previous one? When we had a two-stage system, for a profession, to work, qualified you for first degree - undergraduate studies, and postgraduate studies qualified you to do science and to be a subspecies student. You had a master's degree, which lasted two years and qualified you to be able to do research on your own, and the doctorate was a crown to prove that what you learned as a magistrate had been applied and contributed to some new discovery. It's familiar to everyone. What do we have now? Now, under pressure from Europe and other countries, we have introduced a new system that reduces this basic first degree. It can end in three years and be a lawyer. You won't be a graduate, though, and you won't be a master of legal science, but you'll be a lawyer. If you finish second grade, you'll be a graduate lawyer and you'll be called a master. For the first degree, a foreign word is introduced, you'll be a barrel of legal science. Now we have something that's a master's master's master's master's degree, and it's more than what was previously given to basic studies. That's one problem that needs to be bridged now. In reason we heard, Mr Aligrudić said this: the students came and we accepted on the student initiative to give an interpretation, the Legislative Committee gave an interpretation in July to equalise early undergraduate studies with a degree of master who requires more study, which is slightly less than a master, and is more than a basic study. In the nature of things, a man can ask himself: why is this a problem now, why should it be equated? Two arguments are presented here. They said: on the single market, you probably think Europe, and maybe even with us, we should be equal. An argument that can be accepted. Second argument, in doctoral studies, if you're not a master, you can't go to doctoral studies. At first glance, you'd think it was like that, but it's not like that. I'm going to prove nicely that there was no need for a reason for such a thing to happen. Serbian radicals will vote to level this. For what? It's because in one part of the students there may be desire and misunderstandings, and feelings of threat to further progress, existence, and it's not disputed. Other European countries have done the same. It was done in Croatia, in Slovenia – it is even, to say the simplest example, the most lawyers there is, a graduate lawyer with a master – Belgium, the Netherlands and many European countries did it, and there is no dispute there. The question is, why do we and what do we do? That's two questions. When the framework law applicable to Bologna was passed, it was said to be wide and that sublaws and regulations would regulate details and specificities. The question is - when we are discussing issues of higher education, the Assembly is a layman's body, here some have mocked some MPs about how ignorant they are, how they don't understand legal norms and terminology - why we haven't consulted the expert bodies that have been invited, exactly the National Council for Education, exactly the Conference of the College; if we could have been the Senate of the University; if we had been, and we may have had to consult the Serbian Academy of Sciences, because the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, to remind you, in a recent interview, says that the Academy has been bypassed in taking care and creating education policy. So we haven't consulted anyone, we don't ask anyone, and maybe those bodies could solve this problem themselves with their normative acts. If you read carefully the documents and follow Bologna, then go and look, a meeting of the Qualification Frameworks in the European Higher Education Area was held in Copenhagen from 12 to 14 January 2005, and it is well said there: all relevant factors interested in higher education will be included in the development of all national frameworks, as well as the interpretation of qualifications. So, this is where the expert associations are missing, this is where the experts are missing, and if you want to conduct Bologna, you have to respect this. I said it's not a doctorate condition that someone's afraid they won't be able to go to doctoral studies and I'm going to re-apply to what's a document from another meeting, which was held in Salzburg 3-5. In February 2005, where it says: the third cycle was found to be discussed on the third degree, on the doctorate, will certainly separate from the first two, undergraduate and postgraduate, and that it requires more flexibility in the structure and organisation. If flexibility is allowed, it means that different programmes are allowed within a single country, not only within the European educational space. So you could have prescribed a Ph.D. for whoever was undergraduate, give him one program, and whoever's a master, if he's got something more on his way to a doctorate, if he's more educated to use the scientific apparatus and he's proven himself, you'll give him another program. That's the essence of Bologna, which no one here understands - that elasticity and the permission of different procedures inside, I won't read, ten points of what's clearly said. Now a man can think of it this way: we've ruled out the professional public, we've listened to the students, it's okay to hear what we've heard, and without them, it can't go on if Bologna wants to be strictly implemented. We'd better have listened to something else when it came to the students and seen if it was done. Bologna requires students to be active participants in the educational process. In what way? To grade their professors, but not to be empty, dead letter on paper, but also to be the condition of the survival of the teacher concerned on the subject and the cathedral he holds. I'm not saying this by accident. Now I would use this time to point to a far more important problem. In September, we got the first generation of bologna coming out and ending. If we look at the Law and Bologna strictly, Bologna introduces something that is more of a high school type of work, learning and grading. You have 60 points that are a condition for you to move to next year. Namely, there is no transfer of exams from year to year under our law that we passed here in 2005 and what the intensity of Bologna is. But what happened? We've had a big problem, I agree, before the introduction of Bologna. What was he looking at? Here, he looked at it, I know best the situation at the Medical School, the dental, the pharmaceutical, if you're looking at students who've enrolled, say, a college that I finished a long time ago, a generation from 1999 and 2000, was enrolled 1,035 students. Do you have any idea how long it's been over in, like, eighty-six students? If you're watching the pharmacy, 2000/2001. 325 students enrolled in the year, and ended 55 in time. Stomatology, 2000/2001. - re-entered 230 and finished 10 students. You see, Bologna requires everyone to finish within the year after year. What's a real picture of our high school? To narrow it down a bit to figures: in Serbia studies end in 10% of students, 70% quit, and 20% study longer than prescribed deadlines. So, 30% ends. What about the passage of the system? Why is that happening? That's the real question, and that's what I need and how to deal with it. What happened this year? It happened that when you open the paper and you read the minister's statement, then you see this: we give up the legal norm prescribed by the Higher Education Act, it will no longer be passed in the next year without passing the exams, but - the census has been reduced from 60 to 37 points, and that is a decision, a deal between the minister of education, which agreed with this norm. There's a legal toothpick or a back road that's allowed. Let's get this straight: I absolutely support this. And what do I mean? What I'm saying is that here, Bologna is being applied in a radical way, that she didn't do what we introduced her for, and that we talked here for free that there would be problems and that this way she couldn't, and that life, here, is, but in the first step, she's denying that it's well implemented. What's the problem? We've got new programs, but classes, exams and grades are old. The items are reduced by half, the material remains the same, the method of testing is exactly the same, and most students can't pass this. I pulled these three colleges that are closest to me - medical, dental, pharmaceutical - I don't disrespect others, I don't know the situation in other colleges, but in these colleges you have the best high school students. What's he saying? He's saying that what was passed and the legal norm prescribed-- it doesn't work, it's not good, and that's the problem. The students need to be heard in the right way, not to go to the demonstration, and then someone here to take them in, so they can promise them something that doesn't really matter. So someone will say to me, "Well, maybe it's the way it is in the world," and it's not. Here we take one developed country, you want to join Euro-Atlantic integration, take Germany. I know the situation in medical science. You see, in Germany 2,347 people were enrolled in medical schools, and in 2005, 2,024, so 2,300 people ended up in college. Let's see Italy, that's our neighbors, closer, they have data for a medical group of biomedical sciences, and dentistry, and pharmaceuticals, and I'm not saying everything, they enrolled 27,000 students in 2000, and it graduated 47%. What happened this year? Why has this changed? When they saw the passing, which is below 15% in our colleges, they saw that Bologna broke in the first step, that it was unrealistic. Now the charges have begun. Students attack teachers, teachers attack students, and in fact, in my opinion, the third person is the culprit: it is the competent ministry, professional services that are unable to implement something new in the right way. And that's the real truth, and that's the problem we need to deal with here. So, another piece of information: you remember a few years ago that campaign of television painting, a thousand talents, scholarships for them, the allocation of millions, whether it was the euro or the dinars - I don't remember exactly, that thousands of young people get scholarships and get help. There were all those winners of international recognitions at the knowledge Olympics. What is it this year? Out of a thousand, only a dozen scholarships were awarded. What about taking care of young talent? These are the serious problems of this society. This new minister has managed to bring something that has come to life – and has had a perspective and has given hope to young people in this country, to survive in this country, that even with these scholarships they can go abroad and that there at prestigious universities, since most of them are not wealthy, they can expand their knowledge – it is extinguished. We have pointed out the negative tendencies and phenomena of this united European university space and the markets to dictate relations, fearing the brain drain. Someone said how many of our young talented people are abroad, and surely with this policy of an irresponsible government, we are not going to fix the situation. Just one more sentence to say, these figures that I said, about a 15 percent passover, should we allow everyone to be a college and under all kinds of conditions? The accreditation committee, the accreditation body, has a responsibility to try to seduce order. If we don't, you have an alternative, and that's Kragujevac. The state has stopped at Kragujevac, and we know that Kragujevac is something typical of all Serbia. If you don't want the order, then you're going to be making physical threats, then you're going to beat up the members of the Accreditation Commission, shamelessly, to pay the beatings and to keep the Kragujeva Law School problem and grow. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this proposal, there are no problems, but it does not get into the essential, essential problems of our higher education, and this should be given far more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8331	Thank you, Dr. Momchilov. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic called, and let MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministers of the Republika Srpska Krajina of the Refugees have asked me to ask a parliamentary question here today. Namely, on the Croatian Radio-Television teletext, they read that a Serbian delegation in the Security Council supported Croatia's admission to a non-permanent Security Council member. At the same time, Slovenia did not do so because of the fishing dispute in Piran Bay. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, it turns out that Slovenians are more interested in fish than representatives of the Serbian government for citizens, for Serbs, for members of their nation. What exactly is this about? Either he's crazy, or he's a traitor or there's no third. Because several hundred thousand Serbs were expelled from the centuries-old hearth. A few tens of thousands of apartments have been taken. Several dozen billion assets were seized by those Serbs. Several thousand Serbs were killed in the most insidious and beastly way as they headed towards Serbia in refugee columns. Today they are citizens of Serbia, today they are citizens of this country and today someone has decided on behalf of them to support Croatia's candidacy in the Security Council. What can we say after this? It's a shame. I ask those who sent this delegation, regardless of who is in it, I know who is: who authorized the delegation to support Croatia? Who authorized the delegation to make such a treasonous move before all the issues were resolved? At the same time, I remind you that in Strasbourg, in the Council of Europe, some members of our delegation did not support the resolution that was proposed. Mr. Micunovic, and I say "au", because whoever did not support that resolution to recognise the rights of Serbs as a constituent people in Croatia, so those rights they had before 1990, the one who did not support that resolution, would at least have to blush.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8333	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8334	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't have kept your attention for long on this, the simplest way of equating the calling, because it certainly doesn't result in an evening of knowledge. Let me take this call and say something about this important point that's currently on the agenda. (President: I apologize, please proceed. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Please hear the speaker. I was happy last night because for the second time in four years, since I was here, this House has looked like a Parliament, or this assembly to parliament, however you wish. For the first time, when Mrs. Gordana Rajkov spoke, there was silence, there was hearing and there was something smart, and in the afternoon session, when the doctors spoke, sticking to the professions and topics that were on the agenda. At those two moments, I was proud to be a member of this House. Of course, today was a new day and everything went down the water. This young man, the one I showed up here today, said to me two months ago, "I signed up for a master, paid for it, etc." I say to him, "Well, why, it'll be even, we've made a last-declaration decision to even it out." He looked at me astoundingly and said, "What difference does it make? I'm not writing down a master's for paper. I'm writing something to learn." So whoever doesn't think like this young man, it doesn't really matter what we call him, because the old Latin rule is faked non-nightly, so wrong appointment doesn't absolutely hurt those who will hide behind the paper and those whose paper will be secondary to the knowledge they will gain. So that knowledgeability is essentially what will open the door to someone's future life. So it's for some future profession. That's the shortest I've ever wanted to say. It's gonna be a problem. Any of that calling is going to be a particular problem, but that's exactly the challenge: is something that's going to cause problems supposed to stop us from doing it? I can only say that the profession is late for this House for a year and a half. A year and a half ago, this was already in conversation in this respected home. A year ago, the Legislative Committee, in its last session, made a decision on equality, very reasoned and reasoned. In that year, no one answered, and we call them today and say, "Come on, people, pick up." Gentlemen of the profession, this time you'll be coughing for the parliament. That's nice to meet you, too. We're going to help each other solve these problems as painlessly as possible, make the solutions as fair as possible and as good as possible. This is what I'd end up with. I think it's clear from this that the G17 MP group will support the unanimity of these calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8335	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Borko Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8336	Today, the National Assembly is, if I may say so, just before a single dilemma: whether it should demonstrate what has long been known in the National Assembly, which is that the government has passed laws at all costs, not taking into account the opposition's argument, and after a few years return that same law to changes and additions, or to define itself as an even worse variant, which is some new authentic interpretation. Why am I saying this? Because a year and a half ago, literally to four in the morning, it seems to me that it was a night session, that we were making a number of arguments and trying again this side, which was in power, to convince that some of the solutions in that law were not good, that they were practically inapplicable and that they could be interpreted in several ways. Of course, then it is said: you are the opposition, you can criticise, but your argument is weak, we will end it all. You see for yourself how you ended up - you brought back this point of the agenda again, but now as an authentic interpretation. For the sake of the public, I have to say that when voted, usually voted yes or against, and usually, depending on what happened after the vote, he says: those who voted the opposite were right, and those who voted for—they were not, or vice versa. However, today we have a completely trivial situation: however we vote, we have made a mistake. So any decision to make about authentic interpretation is wrong. 'Cause that's what one team came up with, and I can say that, because these people are ashamed of themselves, they make sure that they're cultural, polite, that everyone likes me, that I don't suffer from everyone liking me, because this law has been pushed by a group that worked against the state university. And they were doing it in public. They've been announcing for years that they're going to break up state universities. Active participants in the destruction of state universities were also professors of state universities. Remember, there were at least three members of the Law School in this assembly. When they finally read what that Bologna was, none of them left the state university. Everyone stayed at Law School and now the culinary spits on private colleges. It's that late-onset mind. However, we had that plagiarizer, and we also had Gaše Knezevic, who applied the draft law that was not even passed, so I'm not surprised. I know what their low battery capacity is. Yeah, that's right. Now let's see why this Bologna needs it. She's got her pluses and she's got her minuses. The only plus it sounds nice is that with that degree you get here, you can possibly go abroad and continue your studies and get a job in that calling, as applied abroad. However, it is weak. The education system of a country is always based on the needs of that country. There is no country that makes its educational system according to the needs of a neighboring or some overseas state. Because, by the logic of things, the education system is financed mainly from the budget, the state has a commitment to children who finish colleges, educates them to work in that country tomorrow and adapts education programs according to needs. It certainly is, plus a guy with a degree from here can be employed abroad, but that's not the primary goal of the education system. This compatibility with abroad shouldn't deserve so much attention if it needs to compromise something that is a recognizable feature of our education system, which is, in any case, one general knowledge, a common culture. It's probably one of our priorities. How did this Bologna come about? By the way, someone in Europe has concluded that they need to lift their feet to be footed like they do in America. You know, America conquers a country, takes cheap resources, it's able to develop its own production forces, tools, and it needs to provide a good standard. And then there's the need for as many people to work in the service sector as possible, so there's some stuff coming up: the manager, the manager, the one, the one, the one that's keeping this guy on the left, the one who's holding it on the right, etc. And then someone in Europe concluded, "Wait, let's catch a connection with them, we'll invent some occupations, too." Because metal can be that many and so many thousands. What better education than when we can't hire them? But we can hire them in an administration there, in services matters. And it's now becoming tragic, when someone in Serbia puts a finger on his forehead and says, "Now let's be a little West in the East." But that's not the situation with us, that's the fact. And, of course, when the principles of Bologna are so brutally incorporated into our law of higher education, it just surprises me that we only give authentic interpretation for one member. We could give authentic interpretations for at least fifty members. I absolutely support Mr. Novakovic: it is one question of calling and graduating, and the other is a question of knowledge. What are we giving priority to - do they know, do they call? If we give priority to calling, Mr. Paja Momchilov and these doctors, the professors, who have been talking here for two days, have so shyly thrown that Bologna does not give a good fit. Bologna gives something that Shuvar once imagined at some lower level of secondary education. Based on this lower level of knowledge, we have a full assembly of experts, agencies full of experts, etc., and ignorants, great ignorants. America has some needs: to calm the population, to enjoy abundance, to watch television and eat peanut butter when they come from work, not to be interested in something that is politics, which is life – to know, politics is the greatest discipline that exists in the human race – to be satisfied, to have a school. We were the last time the law on that education on the agenda pointed to some examples. In America, you know, when they take someone to work on the cash register, they say, "What would you do if the electricity went out and didn't make the cashier's checkout; that you got a ten-dollar bill, and he bought you a five-dollar deal?" How long would it take to get his change back?" Who gives the right answer? It's received immediately. I'm absolutely sure that consistent application of Bologna needs our children to make idiots and imbeciles. That's my personal attitude. That's what I have to tell you. Why? Because we're racing in a debut. For who? Because of a lady or a man or a woman, as an assistant minister, who watched her own home. And so she fostered herself. She's turned out to be very smart, and at her university, they can't decrypt some degree to betray someone who's finishing college. We're not going to open up the question of a new program of studies here. But believe me, I'll tell you in layman's terms, if at some year of law school there are two exams at the same time, bonds and, say, judicial medicine with judicial psychiatry, that's supposed to stick to those 60 points for that year-- probably the relationship in those points should be 1 :100. Here's one thing you can't possibly fit into Bologna. The Bologna is accepted as a recommendation, and everyone is looking to avoid it. Why? Because, first of all, they take care of their own interests: their own economy, their lives and their general culture in that country. We can now criticise here, present data on study efficiency, etc. If nothing else, it's much better for the kids to be in college, to get a general education, even if they repeat it, than to land in the streets, if the economy can't absorb that number that's on the bureau. But no, democracy has come. Everything in the bank counts. Someone thinks that education has to make a lot of money, and you're headed that way. You can't see the end of it. We warned you a year and a half ago. And three years ago, we warned that minister when she was a middle school law, so it seems to me, too, was some night vampire session until four o'clock in the morning. Same thing. You're all talking shit, and after two months, they come and say, "You're right about what you said." "Here, we're dealing with a problem, we don't know how to solve it." That's why I'm going back to that: no matter how you vote, we're all wrong. We all made a mistake, but now we're all making a conscious mistake because someone made us make a mistake. Who made us? The one who proposed such a law on higher education. And now we all become accomplices to that. Someone's looking forward to finishing a four-year college 10-15 years ago, so now they're going to translate that degree, become some sort of master, master. He's acting like something. These generations that are on the crossing between this and that will be reportedly reportedly, but no one will say: ever since democracy came, children have paid tuition and it is the most irresponsible move this generation could make. There's no one like Chad Jovanovic. He was happy to go to free school. When he's done - let's set European standards - so kids pay, parents pay. Why? Why are we paying? There are few who are so good students that they are provided with free schooling, or that the state finances their education. Now that generation is silent and saying: you know what, Europe is reality and that's what, Matić, in the face of reality, we have to sink. There you go. We need to sink and lead that way. We stagnate in every area. The only progress is where your people should be employed. They make up jobs, make up jobs, make things up. Who are you hiring? Your master. We have a foreign minister - some physicist doing foreign affairs. If he's a master of physics, let him do physics. He went to school, trained in physics. What does foreign affairs have to do with it? Maybe he wants to act like his idol Javier Solana, who's also a physicist. You see how dangerous it is when a physicist catches up to politics: he presses a button, bombs, so he shoots himself here, so he destroys himself here. We must endure all this while the Democratic Party is in power at least in one municipality. If you're in town - disaster. Every 15 days, the asphalt changes. You know why? Because in low construction you can't determine the amount, and in high construction you can. Yes, it is. You came up with a good system, some master designed that system. Whatever I tell you about this authentic interpretation, we'll make a mistake. We're not gonna solve what's really a problem. The problem is the whole law, so you know. The law is not right: for teachers, for students, or for those who need to make progress and to be employed if these studies are completed under this law, whether they are basic, academic or specialist. Bad law. We can't correct that bad law with authentic interpretation. We can't. You gave the primate to lift the leg, the frog's leg to get on a horse's foot, to make some use of it. What good did you get? It's no use. I'm telling you: your law school professors, who wanted to break up law school, go to those private, for business, for this, for that. When they finally read that Bologna, they said, "No, no, Law School" -- well done, run, what kind of private, like these devils, etc. Don't look at American shows, there's an idealized picture of America. I want you to do something normal. For seven years you've been doing everything that's abnormal, give me a little movement, at least five minutes, something normal to do. None of this. Absolutely nothing. There's no knowledge anywhere. We'll have nostics and nothing else. And then there's another question: why are we teaching someone and giving them a degree to run abroad to work? I know the answer, right now they're going to say, "Why don't you offer us a job?" They go abroad to wash glasses in cafes - you should know that. There are few of our graduates who are some experts and who are accepted there. You know, the doctor with that degree of ours, when he's gone, has to prove himself there. There's some work to be done, so you know you're working some other courses to finish. In America, anyone who's on the employment desk has 15 courses in his hand. Fifteen training courses passed that he could stab to find a job if he wanted to work. We can't imitate them, people. Since we can't imitate them, let's have regulations that are normal for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8337	Thank you. Since MP Borko Ilic is not there, the word has been given by MP Miljan Rangelovic, and let the MP Elvira Kovac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8338	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday afternoon and this afternoon I listened very carefully to all your statements on this subject. I can say that I am satisfied with some of the exhibitions, but I'm also not happy with some because it's absolutely wrong to interpret what we're trying to do in real life. I suggest we all remember together that we have over 400,000 highly educated Serbian citizens and that we have about 180,000 students who will also be highly educated Serbian citizens in a year, two, three or four. The activities of student organizations have been very good in both the congregation and universities in recent months. They presented their ideas and plans very nicely, and that's why the party G 17 plus stood behind this good initiative. For what? We have interpreted that we will be treated one way or another in the European Union, or that we are doing it for the European Union. Yes, we work for the European Union, because we want to protect highly educated citizens when we become a member of the European Union. We don't want when these employers come from the bureau looking for highly educated people, we send the seventh one degree - those who are called masters, but we don't send the seventh one degree - those who are called graduate economists, politician, lawyer or something fourth. It's just that there's been a change of thesis here. According to old law, we had higher school and graduates, or college. Under the new law, it's called buchelor and master. It's very simple. I don't know why some MPs deliberately want to pretend it's something different. No, I don't. This is about equating the call. We have academic calling, and it's a bacchelor and a master under the new law, higher and high professional preparation. People wonder what happens to the magistrates. The magistrate and the doctor of scientific calling and that's something else. But they'll be protected at the Bureau, too. That's the seven-two degree. The difference between graduates and masters practically does not exist. Why? Because the characteristics of each and every other's studies are essentially the same. For what? I studied all this very well, and by the old law decades ago, all the higher education laws allowed students who graduated without master's studies to go directly to doctoral studies, but almost no college in that great Yugoslavia had organized doctoral studies. Doctoral studies are now being organized after the master. So that's the same thing. Next thing you know, the scope of the study. Under the new law, to get to the master's title, you just have to become a bacélor, that's three years plus two more years. To be graduated under the old law, you had four years plus an undergraduate internship as a fifth year. Now someone wants to show that basic studies lasted four years. No, I don't. The undergraduate internship was like the fifth year. For what? Because all pre-examination obligations were intended to end in the insolvency period. Making graduate work, defending graduate work, and ultimately getting a degree - this was meant to happen in that fifth or sixth year, all depends on how long the university lasted. Therefore, there is equally a graduate and master. As far as the magistrates are concerned, the new Higher Education Act protects those people who have become masters so far. For what? Because colleges didn't have organized doctoral studies, and then the doctorate's arrival was organised in an alternative way. So, master's studies, then doctoral dissertation, and only by defending yourself as a doctor of science. All those who are masters now can simply write their doctoral dissertation by 2012, that it is a defense and will become doctors of science. All those who do not do so by 2012, means after 2012, they are recognised in master's studies. What does that mean? They're practically rewriting and defending their doctoral dissertation. As for the bureau, the labour markets - well, they won't be even with the masters. So this isn't about equalizing masters and magistrates, as some want to show. The magistrate is a scientific term. Even on the desk the magistrate is above the master because the seventh two is a degree. What's most important: this is, in fact, about legal certainty, about the protection of acquired rights. We can't let those who graduated under the old law at the Bureau not be masters because then they simply won't have the same rights. Well, then what about those people where you need to have a seventh degree? When jobs are shared, someone who has a college won't be able to protect their earlier rights because they say, "It's a new law, a different curricula, a teaching program"? Well, when did this happen, by changing the law, by changing the curriculum and the program, we invite everyone to give some differential exams, to pay a little more tuition, and then to have what they already have? It's never been and shouldn't be happening now. There are some professors who say yes, yes, you can be a master even though you're a graduate, but you have to make one difference, four, five, six or seven exams. There's no need, it never happened. Whenever the curricula and the program were changed, everything just kept going. As far as the masters are concerned, as far as the protection of legal certainty is concerned, I think it's quite all right to support the student organisation initiative and that we should all really vote for this authentic interpretation. This will eventually solve all the problems that arise in practice, to help students, to help those who have graduated, both those who will graduate, both eventually and teachers themselves and colleges themselves – to make it clear once and for all, to know what the rule is and to just move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8339	Thank you. National MP Elvira Kovac, as last reported on this list on this agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8340	Dear President, the Presidency, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's Academic Community and a large part of the society are awaiting an interpretation of the Serbian Parliament on equalising the status of former graduates and masters. The attempt to resolve this dilemma has been translated into the proposal to interpret the provisions of Article 127, Articles 1 and 2. The law on higher education, and it reads (it has been quoted here several times, but allow me to say, "It must," I would stress this must, 'I will be equal to the status of the persons who have acquired or will receive the name by the regulations that were in force until the day of the entry into force of the Law on Higher Education with the status of the person who acquires the names provided for by this law'. So, persons who have acquired a seventh degree of professional training (a graduate lawyer, a graduate engineer), are equal to those who acquire the name master. The proposal for interpretation of the law specifically states: 'The persons that have acquired it, or acquired an appropriate academic, professional or scientific name according to the regulations which were in force until the entry into force of this law, reserves the right to use it in accordance with the regulations under which it has acquired them'. It also states: "The person of the position of the 1st member may request from a higher education institution in which it has been named that in the procedure and under the conditions prescribed by the general act of the higher education institution, in accordance with the criteria for the harmonisation of acquired names prescribed by the Conference of the University, or the Conference of Academic Studies, determines that the previously acquired name corresponds to one of the names of the Member of the 95th Law." I recall that already at the end of July of this year, the Legislative Committee of the Serbian Parliament proposed to the Assembly the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education under which the rights of graduates and masters are equalised. After a day of voting, which hopefully will be as soon as possible, and make our decisions, decisions of the National Assembly, will be known whether there is a need to schedule master studies, even though this year the universities have hurried and most of them have already called competitions for enrolment in additional master studies. This question that we are now discussing has been very interested in the public because it concerns a large number of graduate academics. Although it is only one of the essential problems that occurred in the colleges when they moved on to the new study regime in line with, repeatedly mentioned here, the Bologna Declaration. Serbia, as we all know, became part of a major European university family in 2003. The common objective, declared by this declaration, is to create a single European space of higher education by 2010. According to Bologna, curricula and programmes are in line with other European universities and, of course, a European credit transfer system has been introduced. Studies have also been introduced, which would mean that diplomas under the new education system will arrive after the third, fourth or fifth years of studies. If the Assembly equalises the rights of graduates and masters, students should not enroll the master's degree in colleges that have already finished because they will receive the calls they already possess, and for this service they will pay tens of thousands of dinars. Once again, I would like to stress that the Legislative Committee of the Assembly has proposed equalising the right. In accordance with their interpretation and in accordance with the Law on Higher Education, it is possible to replace a diploma. There was a vague question of the physical replacement of the diploma. It's supposed that most colleges will obstruct this replacement. The university is expected, however, to meet any graduate who comes and asks for a master's degree to be issued, without passing any differences in exams and with the payment of administrative costs. This question isn't simple, it's actually very complex. The problem is that this substitute diploma implies that 80% of the materials, plans and programs should be the same with the master's program, which is currently possible for only five or six generations back. That's what colleges themselves need to assess, that's their job. Because when a master graduate is issued, it needs to be assigned the number of points and the so-called Adjunctive to a degree. It's impossible to do that with those graduates who haven't been working on new plans and programs, or they haven't listened to objects that can be valued in this way, so the system of points. There is another question - I believe that because of this issue, this whole debate is taking place - it is a continuation of the study. Masters and graduates should apply under exactly the same conditions to doctoral studies, i.e. colleges make no difference and graduates set greater conditions than masters. I would conclude that the Assembly is late to resolve this issue, and that, as I mentioned this year, the universities have been very hasty with the opening of a competition for enrollment in master's studies. The universities obviously, which is clear to all of us, have set up competitions to collect additional revenues from less informed students or from undecided children. This situation unfortunately only shows what anarchy currently exists in our higher education system. I would encourage students that only those academics who have enrolled in colleges where they have not graduated and those who have completed their studies under the new programme should really not worry about this. It is devastating that it is not known when to decide on the number of students of postgraduate studies whose education will be financed from the budget. All in all, because of the political difficulties with clear decisions and opportunism of the University that kept quiet and measured what the government would be, it has been missed for a year, more specifically, almost two years in the education of scientists. Last year, it was a very weak enrollment in master and doctoral studies, and this year it all went wrong. The most interesting question is, of course, those who want to learn. For good, hardworking students, young scientists, in the end, it doesn't matter what kind of decision they make. It's only important that it be brought as soon as possible, so that those who wait a year or two to sort out their status finally know what to do. In the end, I would just point out once again that with this decision, the Assembly is late, which I consider to be the party responsible for the ruling coalition. Of course, SVM will vote to equalise the rights of graduates and masters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8341	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the search. The National Assembly will, of course, decide in the voting day on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The law on higher education. I'm setting a break. The rest of the work is at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8342	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon work. Before we move to item 34 of the agenda, just one notice: I would like to inform you that I have invited the sittings, regarding this item of the agenda, to be attended by the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba to the Republic of Serbia Mr. Julio Caesar Cancio Ferrer. We move to the 34th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE LOSS OF THE COURT AND ISOLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE COURSE OF THE UNITED STATES OF THE AMERICA You have received a proposal for a declaration submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. You have received an amendment submitted by 205 MPs and amendments submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; Democratic Party - one hour, 16 seconds, 48 seconds; Democratic Party of Serbia – New Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds; Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes, 12 seconds; Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes, 12 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes, 12 seconds; Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. MPs who don't belong to any of the MPs, one MP, five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the proposal for a declaration. Does the proposing representative, MP Alexander Vukic, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Excellency, the respected citizens of Serbia, the SRS, when it made the first draft of the National Assembly declaration on the necessity of ending sanctions and isolation of the Republic of Cuba, under a somewhat amended name, which directly condemns the blockades carried out by the United States, had in mind several reasons why it submitted the proposal. Of course, SRS deputy president, the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, but also other SRS leaders, in their correspondence with His Excellency, the ambassador of the Republic of Cuba repeatedly exchanged views and political views on the situation of Cuba and on the position of Serbia. Because of the attempts of certain media in Serbia today - I would especially like to express my satisfaction that this did not happen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - to make fun of all of this in some way or to present a bit of unserious, irresponsible (only those who would be responsible for bringing up the territory of our country) I have to point to the following facts. Namely, the Republic of Cuba has always been friendly towards the Serbian people, towards Serbia, towards our former country of SFRY, and later on, the SRJ. She never accepted sanctions against our country. She has always condemned aggression and any attempts to occupy the work of our territory. It's a country with which, we can say, we have the best possible relationship. It's always possible that your relationships are better. It is always possible to develop them stronger, in an economic sense, that this co-operation may be even more pronounced. But it is quite certain that Serbia has an honest and true friend in Cuba. And I am confident, and I see today, in the mood of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we here too will confirm that Cuba has an honest and loyal friend in the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people in general. We use this to point to a few things. First, to remind you of what we have all forgotten - it will forgive me His Excellency that I will use the syntagma I have been using for a long time - some political representatives and their media structures have, implementing "the policy of the buttocks" (it is only us and our pocket, and nothing more on the globe), forgotten all the suffering and suffering of other people. Today, in a situation where we are being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija, when we know what it is when someone faces you with an economic blockade and economic sanctions because we, as a state, have been subject to the most severe sanctions possible, an object that they have experienced by carrying out the worst possible sanctions just because we wanted to safeguard our freedom and be our own - we know how it is for the people of Cuba. That's why we have an obligation to show solidarity, at least a little altruism with those people, who haven't done anything wrong, they haven't attacked anyone, they haven't done anything to any country, they haven't done anything to anyone. They're guilty. Their only fault is that they want to be on their own, have their own country, decide their own future. And that they want to have Cuba as their own Cuban people, not that it becomes more much more common to them close neighbors (in the geographical sense, of course). It's their fault. I have tried and prepared materials to show you how the fundamental human rights of the citizens of Cuba have been compromised. I know some people will say, "What does it interest us today when we have a lot of problems?" If we were to be able to protect our freedom and our country as the Cuban people, led by their President Fidel Castro, I am quite certain that Serbia today would not have to worry about the occupation of parts of its territory. Namely, by the so-called. The rules, according to what Americans call Cuban assets control regulations, they forbade the Cuban people and the Cuban state almost everything. Or what they can tie up or what they can take out. Who was hit by it? First of all, the children, the old men, the non-monetary. Just thanks to a truly highly organized health system in Cuba - in any case, one of the most righteous in the world - their children and their non-monetary can survive. Despite the ban on imports and exports of all possible raw materials and the most important drugs, Cuba is today the most famous country. They were all trying to take her away (from the original rum, cigar, sugar, everything else), so they didn't make it. So, with all that they've imraded, they're just looking for the support of countries in the world to be their own on their own and nothing else. They've shown during this 44 years that it's possible. Of course it wasn't easy for them. He'll show up here, I'm quite confident that since I've seen someone's amendments, our political opponents are going to say no, it's because of Castro, because Castro's bad. And Bush is very good. I don't know what Bush has to do with Havana because Castro didn't touch him in Washington or New York or Los Angeles or anywhere else. So you're going to explain to us that it's because Castro must be undemocracy. And Bush is a big Democrats, so democratically, his predecessor Clinton destroyed Serbia, so he destroys Iraq, Afghanistan, Iran, whatever the world wants. I don't mind you coming out and saying, "They're the strongest in the world." I can say, well, they're the strongest in the world. But I can't agree that they're the right ones. Because those who killed Milica Rakic and little Sanja in Varvarin kill children in Cuba, no matter what their names are. I'm not an expert in order to be able to pronounce those names in Spanish, but in any case, we have to show that we're thinking the same way as those who were killed by dozens and hundreds of militias and dreams just because they wanted to live in their own country and have the right to choose their own power. I think our declaration today is very important. Never so far, it seems to me, we haven't succeeded, and this may be the first time we've found some kind of general agreement about what's good and what's not. There doesn't seem to be, like, a normal person - this is about whether someone's normal or not, and not about who's supporting politics - who would say it's okay what they're doing to Cuba. This proves that this type of declaration has already been adopted in 150 countries of the world, those who think they should exist as states. Representatives of some political parties, whom I have heard boast, teach someone lessons that businessmen may or may not mention. I'd like them to come out and tell you again which businessman we can't mention. And then I'm going to mention to them businessmen, politicians and their financials not to mention, but they can't think of saying their name because they're doing everything for their account and for their own sake: from Thaci, Ceku, to a few other businessmen here from energy and various other mafias. And all the ones you mention, I personally mention every day, and in conclusion with Miroslav Miskovic, or I don't know which one. I put this in the story, honourable MPs, because here we have some amendments that they have brought us. (No, they use those Cuban cigars, that's right; I really don't smoke so I can't tell you anything about it, to be honest. ) They still have a problem with Cuba, but not because they have a problem with Cuba, not because Fidel Castro bothers them, but not because anyone who loves freedom bothers them. They're bothered by anyone who wants to be on his own, anyone who doesn't have their own Tachie, the Cheku, or their Vizner, or any other American to beat him on the head and order him to act. I'm sorry, we accept, it is our sin that we will not have Ollie Rehn, Solana, Vizner, Bush, or anyone else to decide on the future of Serbian children, the future of Serbian citizens. We think it's a matter of the citizens of this country and not their thing, and it's never going to change in our heads. If it's that terrible sin, here, we accept it, we take it upon ourselves. It's the fault and those against whom some here have written amendments. Some don't seem to understand what the sovereignty of a country means. Now I'm going to hear from the so-called. the human rights of the so-called The fourth generation, for which individual lawyers, when analyzed, want to say that they have in some way abolished the sovereignty and territorial integrity of certain countries in the modern world, that there is now no longer any such thing as a category and you need not speak of sovereignty anymore. I don't mind if that theory wins the world. If you think it's okay that there's only a global village in America and its settlements, maybe you win one day, maybe you occupy all the countries of the world. I hope you don't make it. But while that is not so, while we exist as Serbia, as a small point on the globe, while there is Russia, while there is Cuba, while there is almost all of Latin America, not counting Colombia – imagine, by chance in Colombia Americans have the strongest foothold in Latin America, ask yourselves why; but not there for the people, and there is always a squawk and a people is against the pro-American regime, but in some ways they manage to rule – that resistance, which spreads around the world from President Putin, down to Latin America, and President Chaves, and President Castro and all others, is unstoppable. People will no longer suffer your tyranny. As they will not tolerate American tyranny all over the world, so they will not suffer, nor will American servants here salt our minds and teach us moral lessons. Those who have received money from Thaci - to salt our brains here: how and in what way, with which businessman we can, we can or cannot cooperate?- I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have accepted certain compromises in agreement with other parliamentary groups, both DSS and DS and G17 plus. We are grateful to all the people of the parties who have shown reason to adopt an act like this. Because the message of Serbia's freedom will be conveyed to the world by his Excellency, the Cuban ambassador. And what Serbia will hear for the better in the world, not just how it must meet someone's counter-law requirements and how it must be on the verge of shame. So, I'm just terribly interested: where, people, someone's right to advocate the democratisation of the Republic of Cuba? She's not democratic, and you are democratic? Hashim Thaci, Agim Ceku and Ceda Jovanovic are Democrats, and Fidel Castro is not a Democrats? Well, Fidel Castro didn't cooperate with the biggest mobsters and criminals in this country. It wasn't Fidel Castro who stole here in Serbia, it was you. He didn't rob Cuba. You robbed Serbia. Now they find themselves giving a lecture to Fidel Castro on democratisation. We do not dare lecture those who kill children around the world on the democratisation of their country, but say: we are against violence, against aggression, against international acts of law that you bring or acts in international public law that are contrary to the elemental norms of that branch of law. We do not enter into the internal affairs of these countries, whether we like their regime or not. It is few that would like to separate 15% of Serbia's territory, to especially work to dissipate our country, rather than to interfere with the democratisation of other sovereign countries. Imagine those intellectual clumps going to Cuba and giving them a lecture on democratisation. Cedomir Jovanovic went to Cuba to tell them that they should be demoted. We might find it funny, but they wouldn't laugh. They'd be crying people out of pain, waiting for them. You know, everywhere in the world there were forces that supported the occupier because it was strong, powerful, powerful. It's always been like that. And everywhere in the world, there were freedom forces and those countries that protected the greatest value that modern mankind has ever known. The greatest value that Gaius II has ever shown in ancient Rome is freedom. He said: freedom is the most obstacles of all things, you cannot compare it with anything, and the basic characteristic of every man is the thirst for freedom, the hunger for freedom. That's why sometimes we react like this, so sometimes someone might not like it because we long for freedom. Because we want it exactly the way they want it and how they made it happen to themselves by the citizens of Cuba. They just want to point out those who torture them, persecute them, impose economic sanctions and blockades on them. I must say with special pride, I speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, if we had done one small, small, but I would say a good thing for our country and for humanity in general. I'm sorry, Your Excellency, if I've used some expressions that are not like diplomatic language in my presentation. I spoke from my heart. I mean what most citizens of the Republic of Serbia think, what I am confident, all the MPs of the SRS think. I'm sure in the depths of your soul you'll know that everything I've said, I'm telling you the truth. I am convinced that freedom will defeat tyranny and that those people, who appreciate freedom and love more than anything, will always be able to fight the occupiers. Long live the friendship of Serbia and Cuba! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8344	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Vukic, the authorised representative of the SRS. Do the authorised representatives of other parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragoljub Micunovic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8345	Dear People's MPs, we have before us the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the necessity of ending sanctions and isolation of the Republic of Cuba. With one amendment, in conversation and agreement with other political parties, we wanted to create a resolution that would be cleared from ideological and some other bases so that it could point to our principled policy. The sanctions are a means of using against the population in general. They're some kind of collective punishment. When sanctions were imposed on Serbia, when I led the DS and later on in other functions, I was always against sanctions. At all international meetings, I spoke against sanctions, believing that they isolate society and do not allow it to develop its potential, primarily democratic and economic, and that they can only use the authorities and smugglers who, since they cannot legally, do so illegally, create tycoons, develop xenophobia and produce a whole series of negative social phenomena. We have constantly instructed that this is the wrong and inhumane move that is from the point of view of those who impose sanctions the simplest: they lift two fingers and make a decision, and that is it. It has certainly proved that this does not produce the right results and that it has never been able to thus improve democracy or human rights anywhere. We have a specific case here: one of the strong, large or strongest (whatever you want) the country has imposed sanctions on a small, weak country nearby, to which, in its own time, its forces have invaded and where, for a long time, there have been bad relations between each other. The fact is, these sanctions have been condemned by a large number of countries. Almost all countries in the environment, Latin America's entire other country. So these sanctions have a non-political isolation of Cuba. We had a meeting of the Interparliamentary Conference in Cuba, where 150 parliamentary delegations arrived. Castro's been visiting everyone. When I was on the inauguration of Fox, President of Mexico, he even declared him an honorary citizen of Mexico City. So there was no political isolation of the regime itself, but the absence of various goods, which he could freely receive, was paid by the Cuban people. That's one relic, I'd say, today completely declassified in international relations. Thousands and thousands of American citizens are opposed to sanctions against Cuba. Thousands and thousands of citizens are going to Canada, so through Canada, which has normal relations with Cuba, they're flying to Cuba. This is the case of one relic, one lag behind solving problems by directly using force and power relations. We're not going in, because it's not our subject, and that's what this assembly wanted to say, no interrelationships, no internal relations or qualifications of the regime, etc. You can talk about any regime right or wrong. We've had much worse regimes than Kastrog. Not to mention, no sanctions have been applied to Pinochet, although people have been thrown out of helicopters into the sea. So it's one act of mutual or international relationship. Since Serbia, like the whole of Yugoslavia, has been a victim of sanctions, it has in principle defended its position and its right not to suffer, has a completely moral right, I would say, a duty, that it behaves equally in all possible cases. A team before this makes us isolated, but what we're doing has done over 100 countries. We don't need to open up big ideological discussions on this occasion, get into the evaluations of international events, the qualifications of regimes, this or that. The declaration clearly states that we do not want the Cuban people to suffer and remain in isolation. Because we consider isolation wrong and harmful to human rights and everything else. We want, what is important, that all disputes are resolved in a tolerated way, within and with respect for international law. I'd like us to stay in those frames. It is good that the great number of ambassadors have accepted this attitude and we will defend it in the future. Of course, we've had a lot of bad examples of ourselves, and I think we have a duty to draw conclusions from that. I have not missed the chance to condemn the bombing of Belgrade and Serbia with a unilateral NATO decision. I've been saying everywhere, including the United States, that it was an aggressive act. Unfortunately, there were people who thought of it differently. I think if you want to be principled, you can't think differently. Therefore, any violence against the weak undermines the principles of international law and justice. So I think that, in that respect, we should always be as principled as we were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8346	I thank Parliamentarian Dragoljub Micunovic, the authorised representative of the DS. LDP authorised representative, Mrs Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have 34 before us, the final item of the agenda, these salads of the agenda. It also symbolically seals the whole agenda, which, in fact, best shows how far away we are from the essence, how much we do the side effects and how much reform doesn't matter to us at all. Because there are no reform laws at these 34 points. But not just that. This point, as well as some others, such as, say, the Law on Government, practically devastates parliament in the most harsh way possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is not a level for parliament at all. I appreciate Mr. Ambassador's presence, but it's not a job for Parliament to court any embassy. So that's not Parliament's jurisdiction. It is so according to the Constitution that you gentlemen have adopted. Look at article 99. The jurisdiction of the National Assembly, which speaks of the National Assembly as competent to confirm international contracts, when prescribed by law. Or will there be someone here to convince me that this declaration of condemnation of isolation and blockade of the Republic of Cuba by the United States is our priority and something that God knows is helping us in our international position? Gentlemen, I'm saying that we also condemn the blockade and have an understanding of the difficulties suffered by the citizens of Cuba, but we also understand that human rights are being violated there by a non-democratic society. If nothing else, that's the fact that 47 years of government is Castro. So I'm saying that it's the jurisdiction of the United Nations and we don't mind that our country, as a Member State, is of course voting for this resolution, but we are opposed to this kind of politics and this kind of degradation of parliament. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if this was just about solidarity, I'd really be looking forward to it. Here solidarity is just an excuse. Why did this country not express solidarity, for example? About the tsunami victims in Indonesia or the violence in Burma? He can't, because it's not Parliament's jurisdiction. Solidarity is undeniable, it is not discussed and it is known who can, in which way and in which institutions to express their solidarity. This is about something else, ladies and gentlemen. The promoter, of course, is who else would be next to the SRS. Gentlemen, most sincerely, I congratulate you, believe me. It is the victory of your policy. You in this way not only defend and promote your policy, but you use the institution of parliament to give that policy legitimacy and legality. And that helps you, ladies and gentlemen, is the parliamentary majority: DSS, G17 and DS. Indeed, the hardest thing for me is that this is supported by DS, although I have no illusions about its policy long ago. I would understand that on the agenda of this session, on account of our international position and respect for international law, a declaration of Srebrenica was found. Or that there was a law on foreign policy at this session, which we are obliged to adopt by the end of the year, without talking about the second set of laws. Not to repeat here as parrots: the Constitutional Court, the Law of Defence and the Army, the Law on Territorial Organization, the Law on the President of the Republic. When do you think you can pass all these laws? You ran to adopt the Government Act, which is due until December 31st, 2008. Why, at least we didn't adopt the Law on the National Assembly along with the Law on Government? Well, this is more about U.S. condemnation than solidarity. Take a look at the declaration - more than one sentence is mentioned in the United States than the Republic of Cuba and the citizens of Cuba themselves. So this is what characterizes the policy of the SRS. It has always been recognizable by opposing the European Union's policies, especially Euro-Atlantic integration, so America. She was never recognized for taking care of other nations. On the contrary, there are many more examples that show that she was unable to take care of them. The technical declaration is well done, but what happens after the declaration? Then the complex brothers and sisters, so the SSS, the DS, the G17 and the DSS, agreed to take it, believe it or not, I'm going to send this to the law school students, this is really funny - one amendment. And letters and numbers: one amendment. If, as a parliamentary majority, you wanted to revise your position, you had two options in technical terms: to withdraw the proposal and to submit a new one or to submit six amendments. I regret the services that will have to take care of this later. Look, one amendment has been submitted to four members, which means, of the five members of this previous declaration you submitted to the amendment, one remains valid, we just don't know which one. Secondly, whether the explanation of this first declaration is valid, since the explanation of the amendment consists only in one single sentence: 'This amendment edits the text of the proposal for a declaration'. Where can an amendment be arranged? It can change or delete a member. So this is really amazing and totally dilettaneous, least of all. I like to do the procedure and follow it, so it hit me especially, but it's still a big deal. This, gentlemen, I am speaking to the parliamentary majority, brought (as well as when you brought the Constitution, when you were also led by radicals) in haste and recklessly, and with every, and that minimal, ignorance of international law. Here's what I'm talking about. So, in this opening part, it should simply be mentioned that it was the sanctions of the United Nations, which we earned because of Milosevic's policy. I'd just like to remind you of this opportunity. Before we were imposed on sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, we weren't just victims. We have imposed sanctions on Slovenia, and these sanctions are never formally put out of force. So this House's declaration will have the same effect. As Slovenia has been looming, and it is looming today because of our sanctions, so will the citizens of Cuba benefit from this House's declaration. Yes, I support the United Nations resolution and I believe that the Republic of Serbia will be for it. But I am not for this declaration of parliament, which was used for politics and ammunition to the Serbian Radical Party for its foreign policy, accounting with the Euro-Atlantic world. The worst part is point 2. That's what I was telling you. You show how quick you did it and you don't even know the international law at all. Gentlemen, why didn't you at least look at the United Nations Charter? Here's what stands, Mr. Micunovic, in your declaration, which you all signed. Point 2 says, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia opposes any applicable policy of coercion, sanctions and isolation of countries, which always suffer the suffering of the population." That's one general point of view. That position is contrary to international law, with Article 41. The Charter of the United Nations, which empowers the Security Council to impose sanctions, and not only economically, but also to use armed forces, to block traffic, etc. So here you are, unlike this first purely radical declaration, in which you have all supported, as complex brothers and sisters (community again at work), conflicting with the United Nations. And as you court one embassy, all other embassies will laugh at you. That's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finally express my regret that the parliamentary majority continues to follow the Serbian Radical Party and help strengthen its policy. What I'd like to say is that this is an already seen matrix, a matrix in the '90s, and that's actually what this is about. In fact, every time this state, which was neither rational nor effective, nor democratic, had no capacity, and was unable to solve its internal issues and problems, turned to the world and solved world injustice and argued with the world. This declaration means nothing more than that. I repeat, we are for the necessity of abolishing the blockade. We understand that, but we also advocate the democratisation of the Republic of Cuba. And parliament is not in charge of that. Now all I'm talking to is the parliamentary majority and I'm asking for their attention. I mean, I have one request. It doesn't matter what you've supported, and what's on the agenda at all, this declaration of radicals about the conviction, isolation and blockade of the Republic of Cuba by the United States. Come on, try to forget it. So, you're in a major technical problem. They'll tell you both service and every law student, and I don't know how you're gonna get out of it. In fact, you're conflicting with the United Nations and you're showing a lack of understanding of the basic document and ignorance of the Charter of the United Nations. In order for this to not be seen as a silent support to the Castro regime, I, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, first of all, suggest that you forget that it is the LDP amendments. We've submitted six amendments. Only in this way can you correct a mistake, and disrespect for international law and a catastrophic technical error. I'll read it to you now. We have submitted, as is natural and correct, to five members and the title - six amendments. The first amendment - the name of the declaration is changed and reads as 'The Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the taking of the necessary measures to end isolation and the immediate democratisation of the Republic of Cuba'. I don't have to read you an explanation. Yours is similar. It's by the charter, check it out. The second amendment is to Article 1. The words "as well as the depriving of fundamental human rights imposed on citizens of the Republic of Cuba by the non-democratic political regime in that country" are added. You cannot deny the fact that it is the decades-long collapse of the Republic of Cuba and the internal issues of the Republic of Cuba, or democracy. In Article 2 after the word 'Blockad of the Republic of Cuba', the point is placed and the rest of the text is deleted. Article 3 is amended and reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on the national authorities of the Republic of Cuba to approach the urgent democratisation of the country, to accept the obligations arising from multilateral international agreements and decisions of international organisations and in its legal order to enjoy a broad catalogue of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights for all its citizens. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia particularly calls on the state authorities of the Republic of Cuba to ensure the immediate establishment of multi-party democracy and the urgent maintenance of general, secret and fair political elections in accordance with the provisions of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact. ''I Article 4, I have already repeated that position several times, but here I am meeting MPs of the parliamentary majority: ''The blockade of the Republic of Cuba is causing adverse consequences for the social, economic, cultural position of the citizens of the Republic of Cuba and further reduces the chances of a fast and efficient recovery of the Cuban society and its progress''. That, in fact, highlighted our definition: yes, and we believe that blockage and isolation are counterproductive. I ask the parliamentary majority to consider accepting these amendments. Don't be vain. Don't always make LDP your bigger opponent than the Serbian Radical Party. Please, in the interest of politics and the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8348	I thank National MP Natasa Micic, the LDP's authorised representative. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, then Amjad Migati, and then the People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8349	In my previous speech, I appealed to the principle of separating things. Not to use this gesture, which is in line with the best democratic intentions, for ideological purposes and for intrapartial accounts. Unfortunately, the LDP took this as a moment that would be very important to show that America here has the only friends to rely on because this is supposed to be used against American friends. That's not the case. Unfortunately, we have a moment of misunderstanding here. I thank my colleague for his lessons in international law, but let's take a closer look at the sanctions. So it's not about the sanctions of the United Nations, so that we are against or deny the right of the UN to respond. They're responding to a thousand places. The Security Council reacts when conflicts arise, when foreign territory or the right of citizens are threatened, or genocide appears, whatever you want. They have the right to do that. But this is about sanctions from one country against another country. Therefore, this is not subject to the Charter of the UN because sanctions of that kind do not apply. Of course, every country has the right to lead a certain policy (economic, cultural) towards other countries, not to cooperate with them, but has no right to block their waters, to deny the import of goods, etc. Because it endangers every single country. This is the difference between the UN sanctions and the sanctions of a single state that takes over UN indictees. So, when a country, because it's the strongest, imposes sanctions, will that apply to the whole world? It's obvious that it's not accepted in the world, and that's why there's a problem. There are non-democratic regimes as long as you like. The United Nations must take care of that. No country, unlike the UN, is individually granted the right to selectively apply blockades on individual countries. Why didn't she block China? The Chinese regime lasts almost as long as this one. Or any single-party regime that hasn't changed? And now that's why we're going to impose sanctions. Not to mention how many regimes there are today, from Saudi Arabia, that I don't list everything where human rights are violated, so we don't have that kind of international sanctions. This selectivity is one arbitrary thing that can become dangerous from the point of view of international law. It's the only thing that matters, and it's not knowing the international law, the UN Charter, etc. The Democratic Party wants, worthy of its policies, its principles or its rights, to make one text that will be acceptable, without any ideological injections. Don't try attacks now (brothers, sisters, not to list all) to put it in the same basket because it suits you, hoping it will make a profit. No, that doesn't make any money. You can take my word for it. It cannot be profited by trying to present itself now as the sole representative of human rights and some pro-European democratic force in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8350	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic - a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to analyze from two angles what Mrs. Micic said here, apologising to you, Your Excellency, that you must attend these performances, but that is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with different opinions and attitudes. In fact, Mrs. Micic has shown basic legal ignorance. So, she tried to teach us lessons here, we kept quiet and listened to her. I now have to protect this assembly majority whose initiative the amendment was adopted by the SRS in order to adopt this declaration with as many MPs as possible. Mrs. Micic, I have great respect for you, but you don't know anything about the law. You have no idea about the formal legal act. So, Mrs. Micic, there are no members here, there are dots here. That's the difference, Mrs. Micic, a dramatic difference. Mrs. Micic, you have submitted amendments in which you are changing the contents of the declaration. You're saying the Assembly isn't in charge. Well, if she's not in charge, then there's the amendment: "Delete," not add up in some other way. You have no idea what you're talking about. You have no idea what you're talking about from the assembly pay phone. (I will never compare the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the drunks in Morovic, and I ask other MPs not to. ) You say we have imposed sanctions on the Republic of Slovenia. We never did. They just killed our children. And it's not just a lot, it's a lot. Unarmed, no ammo. And they never answered for it. We have not imposed any sanctions on Slovenia as a country. Your mockery at the expense of your own state speaks most of you, and much more of you than the former regime you criticize. You say "Castro Dynasty," right? And you have a friendly dynasty in Saudi Arabia, since you love that regime the most, both you and your employers? And the Bush Dynasty we're not talking about. What kind of dynasty would you introduce here? Saudi Arabia and the constitution. Why do they need the constitution, what will the Natashi Micic Constitution do? She reports a state of emergency, arrests 12,000 people, dies of laughter after only 60 criminal charges against 12,000 people have been filed. What does that have to do with the constitution? There is no constitution in Saudi Arabia, neither written nor unwritten. It's a unique case in a world where there isn't even an unwritten constitution. There are countries that have so-called countries. an unwritten constitution. For example. England, where there is once again a dynasty that you love very much because they give you money. It's just that you seem to have a problem with the freedom dynasty. So you'd be there to change technical standards like you would here. Well, you don't know the difference between members and dots. Well, you don't know how to submit to the amendment. So you can give us a lecture. To get you back to first grade high school, not first year of college, so you can learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8352	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8353	I'm finishing up Mr. Judjevich, thank you for your patience. Out of respect for the people of other parliamentary groups who have supported the text of this declaration, I will not, deeply and ultimately, go into this problem ideologically. But do you advise us that we must be the greatest friends, otherwise we will all have technical problems, as you say, unless we support the United States in the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija? Are you boasting that you want to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija like the United States or, say, Italy (we heard Massima Dalem yesterday) or some other European Union country? Is that what you want to tell us that you're no different from them? Well, you're breaking the constitution, Mrs. Micic. Your party then attacks the constitutional order of this country in the most brutal way. How dare any of the police or the competent state authorities of this country ask anyone on the street where his ID is, or arrest him for stealing 100 euros, and you, who stand for kidnapping, robbery and kidnapping of a piece of territory, are not responsible for that? He can't do that, Mrs. Micic. The laws and laws of this country must be respected. Whether you like them or not, I must direct you to the fact that all citizens must be equal before the law and all political parties equal and in parliament as well as before the Constitution and the law. Your party cannot, and you cannot personally, nor anyone who advocates breaking up the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who advocates respecting the occupation of the part of our country's territory and provides support for America, Thaci, Ceku and the countries of the European Union who want to take away Kosovo and Metohija, to go on just like that. There are laws and a constitution in this country, Mrs. Micic. I don't know what kind of lawyers wrote that. I don't know what we're like, maybe we're the worst in the world. But for you here, all the doctors are science, and rightly they understand a hundred times better, the way you just proved it the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8354	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman, I would like to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think the entire Rules of Procedure was injured by MP Micic, who adopted the assembly majority, called the salad, some of the MPs called the diletaries, and she said one really terrible thing about this pay phone - I don't know if you noticed, I'm surprised that for example. Mr. Vukic didn't react to that, and that's that we, as a state, deserve the sanctions that we've been imposed on. She just said that we deserved the bombing, which was completely wrong, not after the UN or Security Council's decision, but as a unilateral decision by NATO. I can say I'm not surprised, but I still didn't expect to hear about this pay phone so hard. I really think that the Rules of Procedure was seriously injured and that Mrs. Micic deserved a warning and punishment for what she was saying here. Because if she was sitting in that seat, Mr. Judjevich, the one who would have said someone was a dilettante, would have been either thrown out or taken out by security, maybe even arrested among those 12,000. I can only say that I will support everything Mr. Micunovic said about the inhumanity of sanctions. This is about the sanctions of one state against another, not the sanctions of the United Nations. On the other hand, as far as ideology is concerned, I am the ideological opponent of any communist or leftist, but it has nothing to do with any country's internal arrangement. It's a matter of people living in that country. You are ideologically much closer to Fidel Castro than I am, but I will gladly vote for this Declaration, as will all DSS MPs. And I can say one more thing: the hypocrisy of great powers and empires is being looked at, above all, in the United States, which these sanctions have imposed and which have the kind of relationship they have with us. We have the right to say, and that is not false patriotism, that the Serbian people have a free spirit. He had it all through his history. He's always had problems with empires, whether it's Byzantine, Ottoman Empire, Austro-Hungarian, fascist axles - Germany, Italy... He also has a problem with an empire called the United States. The president of Albania is ahead of us five from this assembly (here is Mr Delic, sorry that Marko Djurisic is not here), in Reykjavik, on a direct question from lawmakers from Germany whether Albania will recognise a unilateral declaration of independence by the Kosovo Assembly, refused to respond directly. You know what he said? I advise my countrymen to listen to friendly governments and to do what they are told, first of all, by the United States Government. In other words, as the Americans tell them, that's what the Albanians in Kosovo will do. So, if there is a unilateral declaration after December 10th, it's not the Kosovo Assembly, it's the State Department. We have to say it here, and we have to say it everywhere. It is hypocritical for little Cuba to impose sanctions, and to put China on the list of privileged nations. I don't see how the regime differs. So it's about the U.S. acting in a hypocritical way. That they're trying to take 15% of our territory. And everyone here has the right to say that regardless of what the agenda is. Kosovo and Metohija want to be taken by the US government by day, and that's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8356	I thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by Mrs Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8357	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 104 concerning Articles 225 and 226. I would supplement and correct my colleague, Natasa Micic, who gave one incomplete information. She said the main feature of SRS policy is that she runs anti-American politics. I would just add that during the Gulf War, the president of this party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, led a demonstration of US support that he offered the United States and volunteer troops against Saddam Hussein's regime. So the SRS is also recognizable by that. I wouldn't be dealing with the SRS anymore. I would address you, respected Democrats, the ruling majority, the appologists of the Radical Party programme, and I would ask you: are you perhaps unable to convince your coalition partners that the Constitutional Law should be respected, now you are trying to buy from the SRS a two-thirds majority to change it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8358	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Vesna Pesic, and then Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8359	I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Article 104 because I think that some MPs have injured the Serbian Parliament because they are constantly apologizing to foreign ambassadors in this house. Please, I warn you that in this assembly we do not work under any orders from the outside ambassadors, nor by external orders, as you do. Excuse me, you keep talking to some strangers here at the embassy, who you promised something to. And indeed, please, Mr. Wolfie, stop working on the orders of foreign embassies. You are really insulting this congregation. Here, this is amazing what you've done now. Excellency, I'm sorry. This is really amazing, what we've experienced the SRS doing here. You know what, I'm asking a serious question right now: do we support and advocate the lifting of the sanctions that the United States has imposed on Cuba, or are we going to talk about America and Kosovo? I resent my friend Mr. Micunovic. He really could have responded to Alexander Vukic, not attacked Natasha Micic. If it is to be more principled, if we are already in favour of abolishing the sanctions of America, then it is not right to scold a country and do so for Kosovo. Because we look extremely helpful, as if we're using a troubled country in Latin America for some of our interests here in the Balkans, for our problems with Kosovo. Please, gentlemen, I think our leader, Natasa Micic, has made it very precise and clear that we do not agree with the sanctions imposed by Cuba, which have been going on for decades, and we could have said this before, because this is what it looks like to be a U.S. military attack for Kosovo, and we are not defending the situation in Cuba at all. But I also have to tell you this: you cannot understand the question of poverty and the suffering of the population of certain countries today in the world to sanctions, and this also applies to Cuba, because it is greatly contributed by authoritarian non-democratic regimes, which is also our experience. You said that our experience was merely an experience of sanctions (which, among other things, were sanctions against the UN, which is not comparable – Cuba is in a better position: there are sanctions only of the United States, and not of the international communities) and you draw attention to that internal policy has no impact on the poverty of the population. If that's what you're trying to say, and you're defending us from accidentally falling into any ideology, well, please, we have to say that dictators and such arrangements are very much contributing to their countries being poor. I therefore warn Mr. Vukic not to apologize to foreign embassies in this holy house.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8360	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Excellency, excuse me, please. This way I apologize in particular, but especially please, and excuse me for using this sacred home to apologize to the Mexican ambassador and the Mexican people for punishing him with an ambassador like Vesna Pesic. The Mexican people didn't deserve it. He deserved the Serbian people to send the right representative to be presented in the best way. Mrs. Pesic, you weren't the greatest punishment for the Mexicans. You were the greatest punishment for the Serbian people because you represented our people in Mexico, not since yesterday, but for a long time. We, Your Honor (I don't know your name, don't be angry, don't want to offend you), don't run an anti-American policy. We run Serbian politics. We set it ourselves with the help of the citizens of Serbia and lead it ourselves. Mr. Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba is a representative of a friendly country and has never tried to give us orders (a man is present, so I speak to you openly), but he has always come to have a friendly conversation. Do not auto-project to get the wrong conclusions. What's happening to you isn't happening to us. What they call you on the phone, they tell you who you have to attack, what you can't say and what you can't say, it never happened to us, and it's never gonna happen to us. Because we listen to Serbian citizens, we run Serbian politics and we have an SRS programme. That's what we're handling. I have one more thing to say about international politics. It would probably change something today if some of your friends, and the enemy of Serbia, were on the side of our people and our country. It is enough to say that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and I am sure that many of us would start to change their mind about their policy. I'm sure we'd start to say, well, maybe we've made a mistake somewhere, and analyze all that and see what it is that we can fix. We didn't see that coming. From your friends, we've welcomed the bombs and have them take away our Kosovo and the Metohija. After all, don't let the problem with the Republic of Cuba, the problem of a free country, in the Serbian parliament for one parliamentary group, come down to them that they may be the biggest rum producers in the world, but they are guilty of not producing the best beer from Morovic or from other places.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8362	Thank you. Right to replica - MP Vladan Batic, then head of the DS Group Nada Kolundžija and then right to the replica – Mrs Natasa Micic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that, due to the presence of Mr. Ambassador's Excellency, it was his turn to chair the meeting of the President of the National Assembly. Especially since there's a political idyll here that reminds me very much of the kosara wheel and a little bit of the time machine. I don't want to say anything pajoratically, I see Mr. Hadji-Dragan Antić here, Mira Markovic is justifiably absent. But let me say something else. Of course, everyone is normal against sanctions and, of course, sanctions can't do any good. And, of course, the sanctions are most affected by the ordinary world. And of course we were also victims of these temptations and of what sanctions bring. That's what I'm saying in principle. But by bringing one such declaration, we must not support (no matter what Cuba is) any political regime. Here is the interest and protection of the citizens of Cuba. Why am I telling you this? For a simple reason, gentlemen, because I had a chance to meet Cuban immigrants. There's a million of them in Florida. A million out of eleven million, and those who have managed to escape, and in various ways, to gain that prosperity that Cuba has brought, or regime. These people love Cuba, and they love Cuba very much. Pat, a yearning. I met some of them personally, and I even made friends with them. I also met Luis Conte, who is the world's largest living teammate and drummer, Andy Garcia, and let's not engage in political differences between the citizens of Cuba. Here we are talking about the people of Cuba, who must not suffer the consequences of isolation and sanctions. And let's not say the hard words right now, if someone points out that this declaration is missing in this respect, underlining the political dimension. And, Professor Micunovic, I address you as an impression of democracy, indeed, item 2 of Item 3 is in direct conflict with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. So, the Charter of the United Nations provides for a possibility, not the case, but should not stand in this declaration, so that sanctions can be imposed in certain cases. This formulated point is directly in the conflict with the Charter provision, because it cannot be spoken in principle. This is where we talk about the citizens of Cuba or the Cuban people. Secondly, you should not immediately reach for difficult words - patriots and traitors, immediately Thaci, Ceku, Haradinaj. Mr. Vucicou, some people, and among them myself, have spent years, with all the risks, threats, insults and inconveniences, trying to prove that KLA leaders are war criminals. Some of them are due to this in The Hague. That's why I don't allow it to be said like that -- you're followers of that policy, the mercenaries of this or that. Never anyone's mercenaries, just people who think and want to express their political opinion here. I guess that's what we're right about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8364	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8365	I think, unfortunately, this declaration has once again shown that we are not able to deal with what should be the essence of our debate, but we have brought not only an ideological note into something that we should not have entered, but also an uncipic, by all means, harmful interpartial struggle. So this is about whether, as a state, we believe that if a country is found in a situation that we know very well what it looks like and when we know what the price is for the citizens of that country, we should have a principled relationship and when we say, "No, we didn't deserve sanctions even if we have Milosevic; you don't need to impose sanctions on us because we are against Milosevic; by introducing sanctions—we suffer double. Our attitude is completely principled. This is about disputed, first of all, the time to place this declaration on the agenda. This time has been chosen for voting in the UN Assembly on 30 October on UN General Assembly Resolution. Many countries that are signatories of the resolution, including our country, will vote to lift the sanctions on Cuba. So that's the reason. You say it's not the time, and we say it's the moment to work if it makes sense, and it makes sense by October 30th. Secondly, it was pointed out here that the National Assembly was not invited to bring declarations, which surprised me, because Article 160. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unequivocally say that the Assembly brings declarations. That's absolutely not controversial. I really don't know what caused the bile so much about this text, which is consistent? What is it that you can say is the opposite of the policy that the state is leading? So we're a state that advocates non-violence policy - without coercion, with agreement, with tolerance. That's what we're trying to do when it comes to our problems, such as Kosovo and Metohija. These are the principles we stand for as a state. This is just respect for that same principle, which only now concerns us, but someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8366	Thank you. Right on line, Ms. Natasa Micic, and then the word has the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8367	Very briefly, we don't understand each other at all. First of all, there's no bile here, there's no interpartial struggle, since everyone's on one side, it's just LDP on the other. The SRS attacked the LDP in its opening presentation with some topics that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda, and that's where we'll agree. I don't know if it's that hard. Please tell me, Mrs. Nado, or you, Professor Micunovic, a country that has drawn 200, 300 or 500 MPs to resolve this issue in its parliament. I say: it is the UN's jurisdiction, which is the vote of the Member States because it has a platform. It's absolutely unnecessary. I support solidarity with the citizens of Cuba, it's undeniable. But we're working here to harm citizens' interests, we're wasting their money and time because, simply, this declaration doesn't matter. Do you really think that the Serbian Parliament can influence the United States? They're really gonna get scared? They're gonna lift the sanctions tomorrow? I agree that the UN resolution can, the countries that are signatories, 150 or 160 countries, I know that Serbia will vote for it, we don't mind, I'm just saying - this is completely unnecessary. You've bought the idea of the SRS promoting its anti-Western policy and thus showing some kind of false solidarity. That's all I have to tell you. Secondly, I do argue that point 2 of the Declaration is not in accordance with international law, you cannot generally condemn any type of pressure and sanctions. You cannot be against the UN Charter, but here it is, according to this, point 2 - The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia opposes any application of sanctions, coercion, coercion, which is not in accordance with Article 41. The UN Charter, which gives that authority to the Security Council. Ladies and gentlemen, here's where we are. I'm really into solidarity, I've said it a hundred times. Let's also show in the joy of solidarity. Let's congratulate Montenegro for signing the Association and Association Agreement, and we're still in the middle of it, we can't even paralyze. Let's congratulate the Republic of Croatia for becoming a non-permanent member of the Security Council. And we here, as in vain, are sitting here talking about something that is meant to be said, which the Republic of Serbia will support anyway. Therefore, we are spending both money and time on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are working on their damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8368	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic, then MP Vladan Batic, then head of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8369	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't know how some people are recognized. I haven't said the word " traitors" or anything like that for a moment. I just apologized to both the Mexican and the Serbian people. I'll tell you what it is. It's a political matrix for you. Every time it suits them, these again, patriots, traitors or I don't know what. That's what they make up, they talk about it themselves. No moment (you should take a stenogram) I haven't talked about it today. That's a nice subject, we can talk about it, but I didn't mention any of it today. Absolutely nothing. I am glad that Mrs Micic has finally established the difference between members and points. It's a very important thing and it's objectively visible progress. They will, I am sure, also in future work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I am quite confident that the other MPs will welcome it. Once again, we don't have any anti-Western, anti-north, anti-South or anti-East politics. We just don't have an occupation policy, we have a policy of interest for the Serbian people, and we are the only one in the interest of the Serb people. And that's the policy of the SRS. If you think the policy in which you're going to make fun of your own country and say, "We're scared of America." We didn't think we were scaring America. We didn't mean to scare anyone, Mrs. Micic, we just thought we'd show that, as normal people, we want to agree to the wish of a common people of a normal country to be themselves. And nothing more. Otherwise, we fear you when we see so many powerful and strong, which the Serbian people so much support that you are never sure how many million euros it takes to cross the censorship, and how much to be below the censorship, and nothing more than that. Just don't throw one thing out of your mind: this resolution isn't about who's for America and who's against America. Although I don't mind saying it, not at all. Especially when America robs us of Kosovo and Metohija, especially when your friends take away our country, especially when those who killed our children and especially when they support the worst in Serbia do so. And the worst in Serbia is you, who exclusively with their orders, coming not only to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia but also to the political scene of this country, who are always thinking about their account and for their benefit, and to the Serbian people is not particularly important. That's all it's gonna say: Serbian peoples, Serbian citizens, it's best for you. And why is that the best thing for us? It's best for us because big daddy's gonna have us all over his head, he's not gonna beat us with sticks like he beat us till yesterday. Mrs. Micic, we don't accept the fact that it's best to be with the Americans because it hurts on the head of their stick. We believe that the best policy that can bring freedom to the Serbian people, which can bring prosperity to the Serbian people and which the Serbian people will both in Mexico and elsewhere in the world represent in a better way. I'm sorry you're going out there, I'm sorry you don't want to hear, but I had a funny thing about Jack Friday and Fox TV and this show of theirs, I guess you're watching it. It's not worth telling you now. My message is that we must today fight for the freedom of every country in the world because as of December 10th, we will have to fight for Serbia's freedom and the survival of Kosovo and the Metohija within our borders. And we only have Serbia, we don't have a spare homeland.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8370	Thank you. The word has the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Excellency, I would like to say immediately that, regardless of what various objections have been made here, in the previous practice of Parliament's work, more than once attended by ambassadors from other states. And I don't know why anyone would mind the presence of foreign ambassadors, and especially those who have gone to that embassy right now, to see if they've done their part of the job well in the last tens of minutes. I think that this whole debate so far was essentially a debate that would justify the amendments that someone else wrote and submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to sort of undo this proposal in the same way that the United States did when it adopted this same declaration in the UN General Assembly. I am pleased to see that 205 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have proposed this proposal for a declaration. I think that, apart from Kosovo and Metohija, the few topics on which the position of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is so unique. Because this is about a principled relationship. Our country, which has felt on its skin what the biased relationship of the international community means, must have the same principled attitude towards those countries that have supported Serbia the whole time it has been exposed (and is now exposed) to unprincipled pressures from certain informal centres of power of the international community. That is why the SPS, of course, will, since it is a signator of this declaration, vote in favour of this proposal for a declaration without some big debate on this subject. Because the policy of pressure, sanctions, isolation, and the policy of unilateral application of force, bombing without a UN Security Council decision - is a policy of flagrant violation of the international legal order. Here someone is trying to justify refusing to vote for such a declaration by allegedly arguing with the UN. It's absolutely not about that. None of the moves taken against Cuba or Serbia were in line with UN Security Council decisions, but without the UN Security Council's consent. This is not a UN blockade, just as Serbia did not have a bombing based on a UN Security Council decision. Just as Kosovo and Metohija may gain unilateral recognition of independence -- without consent and without a UN Security Council decision. That is why Serbia's obligation to support all those countries in the world that are exposed to similar problems, such as everything Serbia and the Serbian people have been going through and all the citizens of Serbia have been through this whole time. I would remind you that, recently, Fidel Castro made one claim: that Jose Maria Asnar, president of the Spanish government, simply asked the United States to bomb RTS. Has anyone here in Serbia responded to that? Did anyone ask to check out such allegations? According to a transcript of the talks they published in the Huvenwood Rebels list, Asnar then told US officials that he was unclear why he had not yet bombed RTS. Asnar was then president of the Spanish government. The NATO secretary-general was also Spanish - Javier Solana. And when Castro says that, which in that part of the world that belongs to so-called. The Spanish influence has a great reputation, such as the one who dared to fight against such a large colonial force as the United States, it still deserves to have a certain echo in the Serbian public. And we're still investigating whether the RTS bombing is the fault of the Serbian government or the general director of RTS. Just as it was heard here, by those who have now left, and that Serbia, while Milosevic had, should not have been sanctioned. Sanctions to one country are, as you know, not imposed because of the personalities at the head of those states. They are not introduced because of the characteristics of the regime. They're being introduced for geostrategic interests. In Turkey, human rights are at such a high level that all these years it has been exposed to obstacles to becoming an EU member, but it did not mind becoming a NATO member immediately. Because it was meant to bomb Iraq from Turkish territory. I ask our state authorities (if necessary, we will ask them officially) if they have information on whether soldiers and troops are being sent from Bondsteel to Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries in the world where military interventions exist. Is Serbia's territory or what is currently under UNMIK's control for attacks on other countries? Or, of course, it is used for secret prisons, which we have discussed and what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted. After all, two of our soldiers were kidnapped during NATO aggression and were in illegal NATO prisons. Did anyone ever talk about it, and did they respond? It's rarely like that. And I thank all those who took part in it. I want to say here that the SPS thanks Cuba, the Cuban people and the Cuban state leadership for the support Serbia has had all these years to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Also, we believe that it is the obligation of Serbia, the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia to use this one declaration to give principled support to the Cuban people, the Republic of Cuba, and to demand a suspension of sanctions and isolation by the United States, a country that apparently has geostrategic interests in that part of the globe, and therefore holds sanctions. I would remind you that before the Cuban Revolution, 75% of the country in Cuba was owned by foreigners. It's normal for someone to expect it all back. Also, those who escaped from this congregation hall now, I guarantee that each of them wore Che Guevara on his chest when he was young and played left-handed revolutionary. If Guevara is true, he's not Cuban, but he was one of the leaders of the Cuban Revolution, and recently we've marked a few decades, 40 years since his murder. Those who wore it know. Unfortunately, I didn't live at the time. In any case, I am pleased that Chee Guevara, who was the symbol of the world revolution, still has supporters here today. This is obviously about trying to obstruct the adoption of such a resolution by amendments that will, in fact, transfer the story from isolation by the United States to a non-democratic regime in Cuba. What kind of system Cuba will have, is the decision of the Cuban people. Just as a decision on what kind of system Serbs will have and all citizens of Serbia - we make here. It is said that poverty depends, among other things, on who is in power. Here, seven years of SPS not in power and seven years are so-called. "Democratic forces" in power, and Serbia remains within the circle of poor states. Even if I wasn't talking, maybe someone would accuse me of being kind to the time we were in power, but yesterday was the Day of the World's fight against poverty. According to the anti-poverty strategy, you saw that a vast part of our population lives in huge poverty. Furthermore, are there still sanctions against Serbia? There are still. Why does Serbia not enter the EU, why does Serbia not sign all these agreements with the EU? Are there sanctions against Serbia? Who's to blame? Is it the ones who are in power? We, from the position of the opposition party, could say that those in power are guilty. No, for the pressures on our country, for sanctions and anything else our country can be exposed to, it's those of the international community who want to break Serbia's pressures and kidnap some of our territory. This is how he loves his country and thus defends his country, not by attacking those who are in power. Therefore, the SPS will vote in favour of this proposal for a declaration. As for Kastra, he gave a nice title in his statement: "Tiranin visited Tirana". True, that's when his watch was stolen in Tirana. In any case, Serbia faces a problem that it may be deprived of a portion of its territory contrary to the UN Security Council's decision. That is why Serbia should call on the whole world to respect the international legal order, an international policy defined by the resolutions and the UN Charter. And that's why I think it's very good that most political parties in Serbia, except those who advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence in this assembly and who prefer the opinion of the US government or the US Embassy than the opinion of their people and of all the citizens of this country, that this assembly, I think, will, by a vast majority of votes, bring this declaration and this resolution. I want once again, in the end, by respecting what Mr. Micunovic was saying here earlier and respecting what he was talking about when it comes to sanctions, that Serbia should learn lessons from what it went through. Whatever you think of each other, we must not prefer a struggle for power to the state in which we fight for power. Once again, I thank the Cuban people and the Republic of Cuba for the support it gave to the Serbian people and the Serbian state at the time of fighting and now fighting for its freedom, independence and territorial integrity. We also give full support to the Republic of Cuba and the Cuban people in the fight to defend their independence and fight to stop the policy of isolation and sanctions against the Republic of Cuba as soon as possible, regardless of what form of political authority that state has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-18-0.u8372	Thank you. Since there are no MPs from the LDP who have applied for the discussion, do the SPS MPs, the three, give up their participation in this debate? Yeah. ) Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right in accordance with Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a declaration. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the amendments submitted and the proposal for the text of the declaration in the voting day. The session is due Tuesday at 10:00 p.m.
