ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2872	Thank you. Honorable President, Vice President, after 14, 15 hours of information I've received to prepare for my word, I finally got my word. As for the position of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, related to the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, our representative, MP Radovanovic, made it clear yesterday. So, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina cannot support this draft budget, because 60% of the people of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, during the referendum to confirm the constitution, was clear, because the constitution in Vojvodina did not pass, among other things, and because of that financial part. We, as a duchess party, want to listen to the attitude of those 60% of citizens, which they made very clear at the end of October. I would now be talking about one aspect of which no one yesterday spoke of by the MPs. It is about funding certain media in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to talk about the financing of Tanjug, because after the formation of Serbia's Radio-Television Public Service, the Tanjug news agency remains the only media house in Serbia that is directly financed from the state budget. Such funding is not covered by any law and relies on the only existing 1995 Tanjug law. This year, by now, from temporary budget financing, Tanjug has already received over 100 million dinars, or a million and a half euros. By the end of the year, they are now provided with an additional million euros, which is close to three million euros from the taxpayers' pocket, for something that already exists privately and costs nothing to the state. I will remind you that, apart from Tanjug, there are already two influential independent agencies in the media market in Serbia, which are Beta and Fonet, of which Beta, one of them, has a similar production as Tanjug. Since the state has served large funds regularly at the monthly level so far, we believe that it is really not fair for two renowned agencies, such as Beta and Fonet, to do so in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We warn that the budget financing of Tanjug is being violated and Serbia's commitments to the Council of Europe, which I think most MPs in this house are very important. In fact, Beta and Fonet, by joint action, used the regular procedure and, three years ago, they objected to the fact that the state funding of the media survives. That is the view that authorities in Belgrade are calling for them to stop funding the state budget media, at the expense of independent media, which becomes part of Resolution 397/2004 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and reads: "The assembly calls on the authorities in Serbia to refrain from trying to control or influence the media. Serbia's government should not use Serbia's state budget in order to retain its political influence on the remaining media in its own state and on the harm of independent media." Will the government thus oppose the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Serbia, with its membership in the Council of Europe and its OSCE membership, has taken the obligation to respect the resolutions and other documents of those international organisations. That is why I believe that this recommendation by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is binding on this home, and that is why the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina have submitted one amendment to regulate this issue. When the subject comes to the debate on amendments, we will explain that amendment. In short, I will once again say that the Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina and the Vojvodjani Parliament Club will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2873	Thank you. The People's MP Jovan Nesovic has the word, and the MP Natasa Micic will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, we have before us today a plan for the revenues and expenditures of the state register, namely the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, and it is to be verified by the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is important for G 17 plus and for what G 17 plus advocated in the pre-election campaign, and in the end, and for what we have assumed responsibility in the affairs of the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the good work is respected in the 2007 budget that lies ahead of us today, I want only to talk about the plan envisaged in the budget for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. What is significant is what the ministry plans, which are some three strategic goals: increasing employment in Serbia, increasing exports and more equal regional development of Serbia. In order for these three strategic objectives to be achieved in the coming period, in 2007 and 2008, as in other years, in some way, the ministry envisaged several very significant measures. As for unemployment, we heard it here yesterday, according to the last data from 2006, in Serbia about 692 thousand people are out of work, which is about 21.6%. That is one of the biggest problems in Serbia. What the ministry will do is support those measures previously applied and that have produced good results, and will define new measures to be applied in 2007, and I am counting, also in 2008. I'm sure there's still an old measure that's tied to micro-credits for employment. This means that those people who have an idea of how to expand their business, or business, to employ four to five new people, can expect to get from the state, on very favourable terms, loans and for that purpose in the 2007 budget, are expected to receive 1.13 billion dinars. That's for these six months, how long until the end of the year. The second thing, which will also remain the budget of last year, is to encourage greenfield investment. We must in some way attract foreign companies and domestic entrepreneurs to invest in municipalities in Serbia. One way is to approve certain budget funds for each job, so that people can come into our municipalities to invest. It started last year and gave first results. We have good examples in India, we have good examples in Medvedja, Vranja and elsewhere, where a significant number of people, several hundred, have been employed. This year, it will continue to be given from two to 10,000 euros for each new job. In this way, we expect this year, through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, some 15,000 people to find a job. I think at this point it's very important. Two new measures will be planned this year. One measure is: turning innovation into finished products. The desire is to speed up all those young people who finish college and who have inventiveness, or have some innovation that can lead to the production of some finished product in the next period, which can be placed on the market. The state will speed up such people or speed up businessmen who have recognised that they can perform on the market with this product. That way young people would find a job, and what they were educated for and had an idea, that idea would materialize. The last thing that will also be applied is loans for beginners. Everyone who deals with private business, or business, knows that it's very difficult when you start doing something. So far, the bank's loans have been unfavourable and the bank's loans, and at this point the state will try a simpler way, with a 1% interest rate and no mortgage demand, but the mortgage will be a manual stock for the equipment that is being purchased, allowing these people to start their business, to have some grace period. It's simple, when that business develops, in a way, to return what they took from the state, to others. What will also continue in 2007, is education, training and requalification of people, because we really must recognise that the structure of people waiting for work does not meet the needs of the economy and the state. The state itself must do the job here and make it easier for these people to get a job. Another important thing is even regional development. We now have in Serbia Belgrade and larger centres that are developing rapidly, and we have a number of small municipalities that have really big problems. These problems are in the area of infrastructure, in the area of governance, job shortages. What's going on in Serbia today? From a large number of small municipalities, people move out, move to larger centres, and you have a series of small municipalities where people are currently underpopulated, and in some parts, even, we have areas that are almost uninhabited. So in the Raška area, southern Serbia, eastern Serbia and many other places. So, this process continues and I think it must stop in the future. What the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development plans to stop, in some ways, these processes, or to help more even regional development, are two measures. One measure is lending to encourage employment and renewal of production in these underdeveloped municipalities. You will see that in the 2007 budget, some 1.3 billion euros are planned to be invested in 52 municipalities in Serbia alone, for the simple reason that these entrepreneurs, or entrepreneurs from those municipalities that are underdeveloped, would have the opportunity to come to these funds, that they could invest in their programmes and thus employ people. Thus, when people are hired, these people will remain in these municipalities and we will address the issue of spillage and personnel and people from those areas. The next to be found in the 2007 budget is the development of local infrastructure and the development of industrial zones and parks in Serbia's municipalities. It is planned to invest 1.6 billion dinars in 43 municipalities in Serbia to develop industrial zones. What is very important, municipalities in Serbia must find certain incentives to attract both domestic and foreign investors. One way is to arrange the infrastructure, i.e. the industrial zone, to, under favourable conditions or even, free so-infrastructured zones offer potential investors who will invest and hire people from municipalities. It is also significant that the transfer from higher levels of government to local self-government this year is twice as high as it was last year. Last year it was 14 billion dinars, and this year 29 billion dinars. It's another way, I think, that the state is trying and should try to help local self-government, especially those who are underdeveloped. In the next period, the adoption of decentralisation laws should be planned slowly, and then it would be a completely rounded matter. What is significant for me, as an MP from the Kings, is that among these 43 industrial zones that will be edited in Serbia is the Sheovac industrial zone, which is located in the Kingdom. It is a project of expansion and infrastructure equipment of the Sheovac industrial zone and this year is scheduled to invest some 40 million dinars in buildings in the industrial zone. It is really important for the Kraljevo municipality, which has over 120,000 inhabitants, that tomorrow it will be able to offer potential investors infrastructure-equipped land in one part, where they can raise their factories and employ their own people. The second thing that is important in this infrastructure development programme, also from the regional development programme, two major projects that are also important for my municipality, is the expansion of the spring in the Žičko polje and the pump station in the Ribnica settlement, which will also be financed from these funds. These local self-governments, as well as my local self-government, will get a big boost, because the issue of water supplying our municipality is one of the strategic issues of the development of the municipality, because we in the municipality of Kralje and the city of Kraljem, which is that we do not have enough water, em, on the other hand, and our water is not good quality. With this project, which will go through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development this time, we will address the water supply issue and we will get about 30 to 40 new liters of water. As far as purification is concerned, we'll settle it another time. And finally, what I'm saying is that the 2007 budget proposal, according to G17 plus, is good. Normally, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will vote for this budget and we urge all other MPs to support the 2007 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2875	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Micic, and let the MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2876	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, I didn't expect the Prime Minister to come today. He was not in the last term once the budget was adopted, nor did he make any statement on the draft budget law in the media. Simply, he is not interested in economics, economic and social priorities, he is obsessed with spiritual priorities, myths and setting plans for further populistism. What worries me, which is dangerous and risky, is that unfortunately, there is no finance minister, and the economy minister said yesterday that he was ashamed of the budget and said he would not comment. Imagine the Minister of Economy who won't comment on the budget, not to talk any further about it. What is more dangerous, and very risky, is the fact that this other Kostunica's government continued a poor practice of passing laws at speed, without reality, without setting priorities and without a wider public debate, so that this budget, in fact, did not have the opportunity to declare other citizens, nor did we MPs have the opportunity to talk to the competent minister. I am not an economist, but leading economists, such as Mr. Prokopijevic, Gligorov, Kovacevic, Stamenkovic, Brkic, say this budget is explosive, inflatoric and bad. In particular, it is a huge problem that expenditure increases by 20% compared to last year, and this is justified by the increase in public sector wages, which will, in fact, make people happy, although only in the short term, only around 300,000 people, and essentially, it will cause damage to all others, so to the total population, 7.5 million people. Yesterday, Governor Jelasic announced that such a budget would cause inflation and an increase in interest rates, which directly means that this budget only protects the public sector, at the expense of the private sector, and we know that the private sector is the most important in terms of increasing employment in this country, which is the biggest problem. As for the specific items, first of all what is visible, which is that one of the largest items in this budget, therefore, the planned funds for the military, is 63 billion. I think we're a small country, that we have neither internal nor external enemies. There are risks and threats of another species. This budget does not accelerate Euro-Atlantic integration and that is not a condition, and the position of the military is material, and it is still bad, so that security, focusing on the safety of a small country, is not justified. A small country, which has no enemies in the European Union, as a rule, gives below 1% of the gross social product for the military. When this funding, 63 billion, is compared with the funds allocated to the judiciary, and the allocation of justice means taking care of the rule of law and legal certainty, and in one broader context, it is understood that the importance of the security of citizens is three times less, or 21 billion is allocated to all authorities in the judiciary, and there are 508,plus five republicans. I think it's very wrong and that it still doesn't invest in the legal security of citizens. What is important for our country is that, in addition to investment in infrastructure, it is also invested in human capital. We need to have a healthier and more educated population. What's good, let's say something, is that, let's say, the funds for education in this budget are increasing compared to last year's budget, but what's wrong, that's insufficiently modernising education. We remember all sorts of promises that all schools will be computerized, that a lot of computers will be purchased. Now I've only seen some items: for primary schools - 30 million, for getting equipment and machines for secondary schools, too, about 30 million and about 100 million for universities and universities, so I don't think that's absolutely enough for modernising our schools and universities. As far as education is concerned, it's good that there is this Fund for young talent, but, let's say, by comparing that 160 million, how much is planned to be allocated to that fund, with the items it refers to, it's not enough. So, on all the young talents, in over 1300 elementary schools, over 500 high schools, all colleges -- scholarships, training, awards -- 160 million. On the other hand, the planned funds for the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts are 242m dinars. If we consider that there are 154 academics, that means, one million each and 80 million left for the cost. I think it's this way that the balance, or justice between generations, is disrupted. It's okay, institutions should be respected, but they should take more care of young people and education. It is particularly surprising that very small funds are planned for the Ministry of Health, only 16 billion dinars, four times less than the Army budget. We know we have major problems at the Ministry of Health. Some shifts have been made, but that's not enough. We all know that waiting lists and that on the positive lists are mostly medicines that are cheaper, that various experts and specialists in this country are making superhuman efforts to help our population. As far as the health system is in a bad situation in this country, it says that expenditure on health care per capita in 2003 was 140 euros, and last year, in 2006, they amounted to only 180 euros. An increase of only 40 euros is low. If we compare ourselves with the countries in the environment, we will see that Croatia last year had expenditures on health care per capita of 700 euros, not to compare with Slovenia, where these expenditures - 1700 euros. As for some, since I have extended the smaller items, but very important, I would say something about the Commission for Liability for Human Rights Infringement, or Lustration. It's really embarrassing, humiliating and offensive to plan 220,000 dinar funds, which is a convincing minimum item and the shortest explanation. There is only one sentence regarding the Lustration Commission, and the planned funds of 220,000 dinars are, in fact, slightly more than two of our parliamentary salaries, or half of the JAT's salary. I think it's really embarrassing and that in this way the government is showing a relationship to this committee, which means it's gonna be nothing. It is interesting, of these smaller items, to look at the Office of Media, which has a higher budget than the Constitutional Court, i.e. has a higher budget than the Government, the cabinet of the Government and the cabinet of vice presidents. It should be asked whether the Press Office has more responsibility and authority than I am the prime minister and the entire cabinet. Also, what was interesting is this government plane service - 253 million. I think it's inappropriate for a small and poor country. As far as the National Investment Plan is concerned, it is chaotic, dispensive, not transparent, and we know that fiscal policy, i.e. public expenditures and revenues, the source of government power and they demonstrate it to him, but at the same time can cause adverse phenomena, not only on the market, but in society as a whole. That is why we from the Liberal Democratic Party will not support this budget, because it is neither developmental nor transitional, and there is a greater need for radical transition today than it was in 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2877	Thank you. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2878	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Budget Law is the topic most interested in MPs, not only because through the debate on the budget, we decide how we will breathe our lives into state institutions, bodies, administrations and all that the state needs to function uninterruptedly, but because citizens have the opportunity to hear how their money will be spent in the coming period. During yesterday's debate, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia spoke about how this budget affects macroeconomic stability, what its developmental and social components are. As a member of the Justice Committee, today I will refer to what the Ministry of Justice predicted and the means that are defined for the functioning of the judiciary. When you have a system, as someone said, in which more than 500 judicial authorities and five republican authorities function, then, of course, it is not easy to distribute the amount that is intended for all to the extent that it is necessary. However, I think this budget has tried to make a good balance, that all the authorities and new institutes that have been introduced into our judiciary function normally. I will remind you that in Serbia, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Serbia, which has not existed so far, begins to operate, and that 22 million dinars are foreseen for it. What I would especially like to look at is the appeals courts, for which one and a half billion dinars are foreseen, and are scheduled to operate in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. I hope the minister isn't here, we'll have a chance to talk about it, there are some other centres in Serbia that deserve to get their appeals courts. The People's MPs' initiative will be directed in this direction that some cities that, after the adoption of the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, also get the status of the city, also have the opportunity to have their residents go to the appeals courts in those centres. One change that awaits us during 2007, in September, is that the authorities for violations also grow bigger for violations, so these bodies, or larger ones, need to be equipped to enable the Immunication Infrastructure, the education of people who will work in these larger ones. A substantial amount of funds has been allocated for this opportunity. In the last term, we also passed the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the fight against high-tech crime. Therefore, it is certain that significant resources must also be identified for this purpose. Also, for the smooth functioning of the D.A.'s special department, the High Council of Justice. We will have the opportunity, after the adoption of the budget, to discuss both the Citizens' Protector and the State Auditing Institution. For the Citizens' Protector, the amount of 25 million dinars is foreseen, and for the State Auditing Institution - 10 million dinars. I would like to commend that certain funds have been allocated to the Commission for the reform of the judiciary and for a significant body dealing with the harmonisation and assistance of our legislation to comply with European Union legislation. So, the significant projects they implement and the donations they provide, which will greatly help us to bring our legal system in line with the EU legal system. A large amount of funding, four billion and 100 million dinars, is foreseen for the work of the Office for the Implementation of Office Sanctions. I will remind you that this year, it is planned to build a number of detention institutions, correctional homes, to improve the life and work of persons who are on prison terms, but also persons who are employed in those institutions, to enable them to carry out their job in a safe and responsible manner. I know that 21 billion dinars are not enough, what is foreseen from the budget, from the revenues made by the judicial authorities, but I am sure that if we take care of how these funds are spent, our judiciary will work independently, and efficiently, and responsibly, to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2879	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic, and let MP Dragan Vujadinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2880	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some of the debaters have made very optimistic announcements about the budget we're talking about today. Unfortunately, most MPs have not been able to look at the memorandum on the budget and the accompanying documents, and the budget does not show the positions that the president of the G17 has explained quite well. I think that the function of the state is to determine gross national income and its primary task is to share that gross national income equally, according to the sustainability of tax payers, on the public, on the population, and on the economic operators and, at the same time, to ensure sufficient conditions for the state to function in accordance with the obligations it has. In order to do so, it is necessary to fully analyse the obligations of the countries of the previous period, the obligations that follow, in particular, to analyse the possibilities well, i.e. to establish the so-called ‘supervisory’. fiscal capacity to handle various taxes and contributions, and to preserve the living standard of the population and ensure the development concept of the economy. Unfortunately, due to the lack of balance in the final accounts since 2001, so far, because of the lack of audits made, as well as controls, and due to the time limit in the adoption of this budget, many things in the draft budget are unclear. The budget system law regulates procedures concerning the preparation and adoption of budgets, and in this draft budget, much is not respected. It is not clear enough about macroeconomic stability, in which it will be provided, how stable economic development will be maintained. There is no valid way to explain this macroeconomic stability, nor are the 2006 financial indicators shown, nor are the elements that give the opportunity for a good assessment of macroeconomic policy for this year. The memorandum for this budget, I don't count on a memorandum published last year, has been left out, although the law requires a budget memorandum to be made and to set a medium-term macroeconomic fiscal framework, on the basis of which budgets are adopted, the financial plans of all organisations. The text of the proposal lacks data from the 2007 memorandum on budget and fiscal policy, lacks projections for 2008 and 2009. However, it is only in the funds that is explained by the memorandum of what is planned. In the light of the overall macroeconomic policy, the data on what happened in the previous period and what could be expected next have been presented quite scarcely. There remains a dilemma, whether it is due to time or whether the memorandum and some projections that had to be explained are consciously omitted. Today, I remind you, in the second half of June, we are discussing the draft budget law for 2007. It's a shame, right now, that because of a number of circumstances, the budget was not set up when it was time, when it could have planned a real macroeconomic policy, and that the state could, with the instruments at its disposal, implement such an economic policy. Unfortunately, today we can only determine the results achieved in the past. At first glance, fortunately, the basic objectives seem to be achieved in some desired justice and in parts, though seemingly, in macroeconomic stability and in temporary growth, we have positive movements. The main economic indicators, if they look for themselves, are mostly going in some desired direction. Gross domestic product is growing at a rate of 5.9 per cent, 21.5 per cent growth is projected, exports are continuing at 26.8 per cent, inflation is moving within a stable 6.5 per cent, and productivity is expected to increase by 5%. What must concern economic policymakers is the uncontrolled growth of imports, which for years means the opening of scissors in the payment deficit, so on this plan, serious measures and serious steps must be taken. Import growth for this period of 23.7% is very high. The truth is that we, as a national economy, are part of the world market and that exchange with the world is inevitable. This is what many international agreements with the European Union, CEFTA agreements commit to, after all, the necessity of importing equipment in order to restore outdated technology, importing many materials, since reprolance, due to the collapse of the former Yugoslavia and the collapse of many companies in this country, is interrupted, but there are many mechanisms to stop the percentage of imports, which now stands at 17%, in the gross product. The experience of Slovenia, especially the experience of Croatia in leading many extra-tariff measures to protect domestic production, would have to be studied and applied, starting with the internal certification of products, few of these products came to many other levels. The European Union is largely, with various extra-carinal mechanisms, defending imports of goods from China and many other products. Unfortunately, we do not have the necessary mechanisms to stop such imports, in my opinion unnecessary. After all, to ask a question, do we need and can we stop the imports of fruit, vegetables, from spending billions on bananas? Without intending to go into deeper analysis, the state needs to find mechanisms to solve this problem. The expansion of imports can be stopped in three radical ways, which can achieve the goal, but in our conditions can also cause some new, unwanted consequences. I think economic policymakers must decide to reduce imports through fiscal policy, through monetary policy and through savings. It is our Serbian property to spend more than we have and spend more than we earn. To specify a few data, with the willingness to comment together on some relationships. For the financial year 2000, a budget amount of 52 billion was planned, with budget expenditures of 32.7 billion, adding that there were so-called expenditures. Extra budget accounts of 19.3 billion, funds spent to eliminate the consequences of NATO bombing. The comparisons work, the 2007 budget forecasts expenditure of 595.5 billion dinars. By comparing the total appropriations available for the 2000 budget and the funds currently planned, there are clearly a number of essential issues, which must be clarified previously, especially because of the taxpayers and the general public, who understands this very well and feels on their backs. We have here in mind the growth rate and all the elements, but the growth is very large. If we have not deviated from the main and starting commitment in economic policy in the country -- that from total national wealth, social product, public spending stands out to 50% (as far as I remember, last year it was 49.5%, and this time I don't know about it, because it doesn't say in the documentation), that it would be created from this income that we extract, which is the economy and the population, assuming that this time, too, it does not depart from this line to 50%, in order to achieve an environment to improve the conditions for economic development and better life, it is necessary to clarify the important fact. If 582 billion, compared to 52 billion, 11 times higher, does this mean that life, i.e. whether the living standards of the population and the situation in the economy are improved by so many times? Since I've been in the economy for 37 years, I can say that's not true; on the contrary, we're poorer and the problems in the economy are harder than they've ever been. This high imposition and, in particular, the tax on giving, the economy simply cannot endure and is very often forced to raise very expensive loans to the state to settle its obligations. If, even on the surface, we enter budget expenditures, there is almost no division where high allocations are not planned for civil servants' salaries, but also high allocations for various work contracts, payments of advisors, etc. In the era of very high technology, which, as a rule, reduces the number of employees, especially in the state administration, we in state services have a rapid growth of employees. Under the draft budget law for 2007, the pay on the burden of the budget will be received by 258,488 workers. Of course, there are no number of consultants and users of funds based on the work contract. The logical question is, how does the staff service do it, what are the reception criteria, where is the expertise, and what is the education? Here, of course, I don't mean the employees of the judiciary, in health care, in the military, in the MUP. If we add these data to further employment planning, if we have to pay off, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere around 1,400,000 pensioners, and if we have to, through the Employment Bureau, pay off workers who have been expelled as a technological surplus, if we've predicted more travel costs than necessary, then it's logical that budget allocations are high and that social contributions items are so reduced. We have, someone said, 650 thousand unemployed workers, I think that number is over 900,000, and this increased administration is losing the effects of reducing the employment of workers, like it was in health care or the military. Here I have 35 numbered administrations, agencies and institutions, offices and the like, which are funded from the budget and which exist, next to the ministry services. I think it's too much. I think that's something to be taken care of. We're still a country in transition and with a lot of problems. The transition process has driven a large number of workers out of work and they live at an existential minimum. The number of workers who create value is still low. It's the most tax-burdened economy in the world right now. For example, the 18 per cent VAT in Serbia is 3 per cent higher than the average VAT in Europe, which is 15 per cent. Contributions to personal incomes, property taxes, taxes on potential profits, in any case, are high. On the scene is a typical neoliberalist capitalism, which this exhausted economy can hardly withstand, let alone expect some development concept. If we expect further revenues from privatisation and if we go to accession negotiations and European integration, the rate of growth of one per cent is too modest, especially if employees in the state administration are also accounted for. I can express my satisfaction that the financial year 2007 is planned with the budget deficit, if that's the real state of affairs. I'm saying -- if it's a real state of affairs, because this high home from 2001 to today has not had a chance to get a report on budget execution, balances, by auditors' houses. Several years ago, a surplus is planned, and if that surplus is realistically planned and accomplished, we don't know, because we don't have final accounts. Let me observe, although I may not be right, that such a surplus is calculated by applying some new accounting methodology to budget income and expenditure. I believe that under the surplus, the excess of money is achieved, after covering all the expenses and obligations that exist. The surplus must be a tangible result, a realistic surplus of unscheduled money, where there is no obligation. The surplus cannot be counted in advance, and there have been cases, let's say, in 2005, that in the middle of the year we've rebalanced the budget with the intended surplus. Without the revision of the final budget account and the revision of the budget procedure, it is difficult to establish a surplus. How could it be said about the surplus in 2005 and 2006, if we had regular debts to budget users and, as far as I can remember, large debts towards the travel economy. Apparently, those surpluses were used to settle, exactly, budget commitments and to pay off foreign trade debts. Couldn't that have been explained and put into the budget? I think that in all serious economies and countries, this budgetary discipline and responsibility is extremely high. It is very careful to plan, mainly deficits, and the state has achieved the result by disciplining planned expenditures and revenues. What is not clear is that in many budgets, funding from the National Investment Plan has been put in place without explaining the criteria by which the allocation of funds is carried out, nor is it more specifically said that these funds will be allocated regionally and to which they will be directed. It is quite unclear and that, in the light of the draft budget law, there is no indication that the government has established a general public spending balance, where all the necessary economic sizes would be seen, starts with a gross social product, then a general public spending balance for all levels, starts with the budget of the Republic, the province, in general. I have no intention of commenting on any item in the budget. I just want to notice that Mr. Riza Halimi was right yesterday when he said the funds for the Bujanovac, Preshevo and Bear were halved. I think it's necessary for those funds to be achieved at least at the level that it was. I have put up with this kind of amendment in good time, because the lagging out of southern Serbia is too great and all the efforts we make locally cannot be enough to get out of the problem. It's not good that Comrade Riza criticised the committees, because he and I were very promising people in the Communist Party of Serbia, so, therefore, I think we should remain consistent with our past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2881	Thank you. I would like to inform the Members of the Parliament that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today at 11 p.m., at the Blue Salon. The People's MP Dragan Vujadinovic has the word, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2882	Dear gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the very term of adoption of this budget shows that he was made in tea and coercion. In this sense, if we know that the legal and constitutional term was 31.12.2006, each well-intentioned should say that at this short interval since the formation of the Ministry of Finance, this ministry has, resolutely, delivered at a short time a clear, concise and traceable document, which all MPs can interpret and draw conclusions. What they will be, of course, depends on individual interpretation and political ideology, but we have received a clear, concise and traceable document. I repeat, it is a document that is a matter of coercion and a budget that is a matter of continuity. That's the point. This budget is a matter of continuity and effort to change what can change in the continuity of individual positions, divisions and revenues. What I'm going to say next, that's what didn't cover this budget, and what all of us who did the pre-election campaign promised, what we were talking about. That's the first one. According to the Constitution, in Article 85, there is no longer social property. We still have about 500 social enterprises. Yesterday I said and repeat, for the write-offs and for the subsidies of 70 companies prepared for privatisation went about eight billion euros over the last few years. Of those 70 companies, half were sold; total income is half a billion euros. Yesterday, I also told EI Nis, Minel, IMT, the flag, the IMR, that it is really necessary for the Ministry of Finance and other resolution ministries to speed up the process, because, I repeat, eight billion are spent on indirect or direct investments; revenues are 0.5 billion. The population we're talking about -- there's going to be transition victims, so they've come along a long time ago, this is just an increase in the transition victims, the preservation of these subjects. We have 36 billion dollars in subsidies this year, and in the next budget -- for 2008, if it is reformable, these subsidies must be as little as possible. The second point - reform and reduction of public spending. The budget is half public spending, and our entire public spending is 1,100 billion, or $17.5 million, 50% of gross social product. If we cut one percent of public spending, that's $350 million -- one percent. I'm sorry, $17.5 billion, I misread 17.5 million. So public spending total, budget plus funds, plus spending of municipalities, cities -- 17.5 billion, and the whole social gross product is 35 billion; one percent, it's $350 million or 20 billion. There is our space for reducing public spending, which we have all promised and for which Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, as an expert, an analyst, certainly knows that this is the inevitableness that must follow. Next, public spending is not an employee’s salary, but the number of people is a rationalisation of costs, above all, the rationalisation of public enterprises. I often write that the only other dinosaurs in Europe are our public enterprises, which eat a lot but give little. We're saying that EPS is worth 20 billion euros. If it is worth 20 billion euros, if the state is a good host, 5% of the profit rate is one billion euros. Only 5%, and for a monopoly company that's available. Where's our billion? So public enterprises either have to be restructured, or they have to be sold, or they have to make money to a boss called the state, the third doesn't exist. The third is what I propose to enter the next budget, the first budget that will be reform, which will be the budget of discontinuity, which is decentralisation. We are telling everyone, gentlemen, we are all talking - Europe region, and we have Serbia Belgrade still. So I repeat, Europe lives as a set of countries for regional development. We are scheduled for transfers less than 10% of the budget, less than 10% of the transfers in regional development. So not only the money transfer, but the transfer function, that's what has to be in the next budget. Point four. A special broadcaster of large public spending is our funds. Like public enterprises, public funds have so far been the hot potatoes of the previous government. It is inevitable that the new government, which has two parts, is one public enterprise and the other funds, takes into its own hands, no matter how much it creates social tensions and all supporting transition victims. So capitalisation of the PIO fund, where an additional 100 billion is given, has to be practically implemented. We had a chance, we talked about it, to get a loan from the National Investment Programme, to capitalise on banks that had a great trend and on the basis of their capital gains, as the EBRD did, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Such odds must not be missed and we must enter this sector of capitalisation, i.e. the healing of state funds, for which 130 billion are foreseen here; over two billion dollars of deficit financing and 36 billion subsidies. That's where there's room for some downsizing of public spending. And where should we place that money? Because to give someone away, we have to take someone. If we're going to take them into the 2008 budget, well, we need to give them where the effects are being made, and that means reducing the rate of taxes and contributions and stimulating exports, to reduce the external trade deficit, as well as to stimulate agriculture and tourism. You know that on March 26th, please hear this information, when the Ministry of Agriculture announced a short-term loan competition -- from 12,000 to 240,000, only those who had submitted the request from 10 in the morning. There's so much hunger for loans. Well, why don't we give more of these short-term agricultural loans, why don't we redistribute the budget? Indeed, I would also like to ask Mr Cvetkovic that, given that the preparation of the 2008 budget already begins, what I have said, and what is already known, about the fundamental changes in public spending of public enterprises, the completion of privatisation and decentralisation and capitalisation of funds, finds its place in the next budget, because it is necessary for the next budget to be the budget of discontinuity. I repeat, it's a budget of discontinuity. I think that we who have talked about decentralisation, about reducing public spending, the 2008 budget cannot be supported if, eventually or accidentally, it continues with continuity, which was really forced this time, because something cannot be changed radically and drastically on 30 June 2007. In that sense, I will vote, like all members of the Democratic Party, for this budget, but with a warning that the next budget cannot escape the necessary structural changes that are necessary for the country of Serbia, including the decentralisation process, but real decentralisation, not in the story, not in the media, but in real decentralisation, in figures and in functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2883	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must agree with the conclusion that this budget is in continuity with the previous budget and with all those budgets that this assembly has been bringing since 5 October 2000. I also have to agree that high public spending, I have to agree with the need to reduce the external trade deficit, but I just don't understand how you're going to do it with this draft budget and these laws that have been brought together with the budget law for 2007. Well told, I heard the minister explain the draft budget and the law here. When a man examines the budget a little, when he hears the minister, he thinks he doesn't live in Serbia, either he or the ministers. The explanation gives the impression that honey and milk flow here, that there are no unemployed, that pensioners guard their grandchildren and play chess, that workers live off their salaries, with eight hours of work. The truth is a little different, Mr. Minister. When you can't defend something with arguments, Mr. Minister, and some former ministers, now MPs, come out for this pay phone, spin five or six sentences, use some expressions and phrases that most Serbian citizens don't understand. I guess they're trying to give themselves and their exposure meaning, or to hide the truth that was skillfully tried to hide in a draft of this kind of budget. We have a few questions for you from the ruling majority, Minister. The previous budget, proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, was a surplus. It was a fake, but it was some kind of surplus. Now we have a budget proposal that's in the deficit. This may be a policy caused by the National Investment Plan, consisting of colorful lies and promises, five-year ministry plans, but then the finance minister, I guess, planned an election campaign, and that election campaign started, so in that national investment plan, you listed the creation of the premises of the tax administration, the creation of the premises of the customs administration as a national investment plan. Anyone who understands bookkeeping knows it's an ongoing maintenance, knows it shouldn't be in the draft budget law. Now you've done a little differently in this draft budget, and the MPs don't know if, how and who will spend the funding from the National Investment Plan. I have one more question for you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, and for the minister. The previous budget law for 2007 mentioned some revenue of 17 billion dinars, unburdened and transferred funds. Here, I believe Vojislav Kostunica has failed to spend everything, but there is no budget law in this proposal. That's an item that couldn't have disappeared, Mr. Minister. While you explained the draft budget, you said it was based, that income was actually projected on foreign investment, which, since you came to power, only tends to grow, so it continued throughout the year. I will only remind the citizens of Serbia of what the press and the media have done to both the government and Vojislav Kostunica, and the Democratic Party, and this government. They said there were no more foreign investments because foreign investors fear that the Serbian Radical Party would enter the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, all of a sudden, we hear a minister saying -- no, no one in the world is afraid of it, we have foreign investments, we have where to make the budget. Speaking of which, Mr. Minister, why will the citizens of Serbia pay 2.5 billion dinars to lose the National Bank of Serbia, who was consciously made by the governor of the National Bank during the period when Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the Serbian Parliament? At that time, the National Bank of Serbia broadcast its securities on the Stock Exchange, broadcast records of values it bought in earlier trades, deliberately shooting down the value of stock on the market, ruining small stockholders, and all of which, ultimately, Serbian citizens should pay, some twice. I think it's a cheaper amount and it's going to be shown in the rebalancing that maybe even 11 or 12 billion dinars. Who has the right to, for the sake of their own politics and for the sake of their own personal interests, ruin both the citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the institution it runs, which is the National Bank? You said we had a problem with the foreign trade deficit, and that the reason for the external trade deficit is that domestic economy can't respond to the expansion of demand for consumer goods. I would not agree with you, Mr. Minister. First, you didn't explain why the domestic economy was unable to respond to that expansion. He's in no condition, because since October 5th, crisis headquarters and privatisation, you've ruined every company that's ever worked, along the way, and robbed him. Another reason is not that the citizens have money, so they spend, but they owe themselves to the banks, and the foreign ones, on unfavourable interest, and that's also the politics of Mladjan Dinkic, and you, and the governor of the National Bank. Why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia that for every dinar of credit they raise, they have to pay interest on the mandatory reserve of banks, which serves you as a cover for the foreign reserves you boast about? Why don't you say so? Why don't you say that because of the policies of the National Bank of Serbia, we have interest on dinar short-term loans and over 20%? What do you mean that foreign trade deficit to cut? Accessive policy? Here, one MP came out and informed Serbian citizens not to worry, there will be no much increase in excise duty on liquid oil gas used to drive motor vehicles. Why don't you tell me why you're bringing him in? Why don't you introduce him because you've released the excise gas, so you need to make up for that budget deficit by imposing a excise on the liquid gas for motor vehicles? Why don't you say so? Why don't you just kidnap the poor and give the rich to the rich? When you wrote this law, I guess, you didn't know Stanko Subotic was gonna have an APB on him yet. Do you owe him anything? You used his planes, is that why? Or, for what? You say – you reduce the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, it will be cheaper apartments and less will be paid tax. You're cutting taxes and you're putting it on local self-government right now. And what you're not saying is that, as soon as you cut that tax, you've imposed taxes on motor fuel used by construction machines to build these apartments and you haven't damaged the budget without rewarding the citizens, because the prices of the apartments are going to rise, so what they don't pay through taxes will be paid on the other hand, through the cost of the apartment. Is that government policy? Is the government in the interest of Serbian citizens? All this is just one farce and a lie, nothing more. You don't take less from citizens, just more, whether on one side or on the other, anyway. You're saying you're going to reduce the foreign trade deficit. Is it by removing excise duties on imports of juices, importing bases, syrups, raw materials for the production of juices, that's how you end it? When someone says that the excise on juices is lifted, they say, "Oh, what do I care, I don't use them much anyway?" You're wrong, because they're the real manufacturers of the home fruit bases, the same apples you found on the highway in 2002. Why is that? You say it's a European Union policy. I don't care about that, but, come on, admit it to your definition that you're for the European Union. Write in the law that juices, bases, syrups are released, and no problem. But in the transitional and final provisions of the law, say that this member is in effect by entering Serbia into the European Union. However, it will never be with you. But please state this in the transitional and final provisions, and not to make an excuse for it - that is what the European Union requires of us. The problem of all governments since 5 October is that they seem to be for you, miles and for France, and for Germany, and for Austria, and for England, rather than for Serbia. The policy of this government and the problem is the French and the English and the Germans prefer it. That's why you're making budgets like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2885	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miljan Rangelovic, and let the MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2886	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, of course you've all read the draft budget, and that's why I'm not going to tell you today what you can see for yourself. I'm just going to introduce you to that part of the funding that the Youth and Sports Ministry is about, I'm going to talk about the funds used in this ministry just for the youth. By establishing the ministry law, the Ministry of Youth and Sports was established and it was necessary for young people. Young people in Serbia know what they want and know they can do it. The Department of Youth and Sports is clearly defined - the affairs of the state administration, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which relate to the implementation of national policies and strategies for young people, action plans and programmes for the protection of the interests of young people, teaching youth, employment and volunteering, as well as promoting youth organisations and associations. According to the 2002 census, we have 51,646 young people in Serbia, aged 15 to 30, which is 20.6% of Serbia's population. So, young people represent an extremely important category of the population of Serbia. The G 17 Plus Party wants young people to be active participants in the decision-making process. So it is necessary to pay attention to young people, in harmony with their needs and desires. If there's something I'm terrified of, it's when parties think of young people only when the elections are, when they need votes. The G 17 Plus Party deals with young people and when they're not choices, between choices. Therefore, the G17 plus party calls on all parties in the Assembly, especially the ruling majority, to support youth initiatives, to improve the quality of life of young people. A good sign is the formation of the Youth and Sports Ministry. A major survey will soon be done, and a national strategy for young people will be done on the basis of it. The strategy will be done in a democratic and fair way. We will have a broad constitutional process at all levels, both at the republic and at regional and local level. The National Youth Strategy is a process of building a comprehensive youth promotion programme, with only young people participating. In drawing up a strategy, besides young people, it will be representatives of the government sector, business and civil sectors, and they will all bring the strategy together. In order to achieve the objectives set, it is necessary to form an inter-resor working group. It will be made by representatives of different ministries. After that, we will develop an action plan for the implementation of the national youth strategy. A youth office will be formed, but a youth office that will really be available to young people, where young people will really be able to solve their problems and get all the necessary information. I'm saying what most young people think, and we don't want to be just the decoration of this country. We need to create an environment that will allow young people to actively engage in social flows. We have enough reason to look at the future with optimism. I believe the young will be able to fight for their place. The Youth and Sports Ministry has, among other things, been formed to promote and improve the position of young people. (The President Bell cautions MPs) All young people have reason to be proud of the party G17 plus, because it is a party that constantly accounts for those for whom we have been declared a lost generation. We're not a lost generation and we'll prove it. I want to thank all youth organizations that, like me and other youth organizations, work to improve the quality of life of young people. We need to finally work so that the interests of young people come first to all of us. I want all political parties to work much more to improve the quality of the lives of young people. In front of this generation and in front of the generations, it's a huge job, and we're going to finish it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2887	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Let MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2888	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, once again, the ruling coalition puts bad solutions to laws and budgets in front of citizens, under the pretext that there is no time. As last time the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina did not agree to such a bad solution, neither will this time. You should have thought about the time before you came into this situation, while you negotiated for three months and brought the citizens of Serbia and all of us into this situation that there was no time. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not support this proposal. We've already heard what's bad for the people of Vojvodina. It is an insult to them, in fact, because 29% of the population living on 27% of the territory, and the full republican budget, depending on the years, 35 to 50%, cannot get 7%, which means that only every sixth dinar returns to the citizens of Vojvodina. We'll never agree to that. But now let's hear what's bad for other citizens of Serbia and for whom it's bad, and it's bad for everyone. First of all, it's bad for young people. The young are, by the way, the largest marginalized group in this country and someone has to start taking care of them systematically. While, for example, an inaccessible amount of money has been allocated to finance a massive administration, which, without a doubt, makes up members of your parties, an inaccessible little money has been put into a fund for young talents. These are young and talented socially endangered people. I don't know if you know, you've probably overlooked that the long-term and one of this country's biggest problems is that the young are leaving this country. In the 1990s, several hundred thousand young people left this country. I wonder how much longer it takes for someone to finally start taking care of them. Next, we have this famous provision of buying the first flat without taxes. When we look at it a little bit, we see that it applies to 40 square feet of apartment, actually, 15 square meters later for each family member. However, it is interesting and important to say that this does not apply to unofficial marriages, which, gentlemen, first of all, is to discriminate against these young people, and secondly, you are in violation of the Constitution, because of the fact that Article 65 of Article 5, in fact, in Article 62, paragraph 5. The constitution guarantees the equalisation of such communities with official marriage communities. You have no right to discriminate against anyone because of their commitment. Then this isn't good for the youngest. Let's say, while the Ministry of Faith has 610 million dinars reserved for donations to NGOs, for adaptation and construction of new church facilities, in kindergartens, where our youngest citizens, your children, are not invested. We believe that children must be in front of religious objects. This is not a lonely case for the Church and religious facilities to be placed in front of Serbian citizens, so we have a situation for the restoration of Hilandar monastery to be set aside 90 million dinars, and for the restoration of schools there is nothing. We have proposed that part of the funds allocated to rebuild Hilandar focus on economically endangered citizens, those socially endangered and that the funds allocated to them are increased from the budget, as well as funds for schools. In this place, we must remember yours, in fact the first minister of education of then-Serbia, Vojvodjanin Dosite Obradovic, who said, " Schools, schools, we need, not bells and promenades." That's what he said 200 years ago. Unfortunately, some still haven't figured that out. Furthermore, we believe that part of the executive funds allocated to the Ministry of Diaspora must be transferred to the Refugee Commissioner, because we believe refugees are, however, more socially at risk than the diaspora living in Serbia. When it comes to culture, this budget has many shortcomings, and two are the most in the eyes. The first is the position of the Mother of Serbia, which I will recall is one of the oldest cultural institutions in the Serbian people and, certainly, the institution with the longest tradition of publishing activity, which is classified in this proposal as the order of NGOs, not cultural institutions, probably because it is not in Belgrade. The other thing is even weirder, which is the position of the White Court, for which it remains unclear whether it is a museum, whether it is a castle complex, whether it is the home of the Karadjordjevic family. In any case, whatever it is, the Serbian citizen institution costs more than the entire Serbian presidency. We think it is inadmissible and that the citizens of Serbia, if they wanted to support the Karadjordjevic family, would be identified as a monarchy. In the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there is no sign of regional development, although I must say that this is not surprising in a country that is increasingly centralised and which is treated by Vojvodina as a pantry from which money is made. When we look at the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there are precise criticisms, the words that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina referred to when it came to the Ministry's Law, when we proposed to form the Ministry of Equality, because we see that no budgetary resources are provided for the establishment and functioning of the equality mechanisms. Here, first of all, I mean the economic empowerment of women. I will state that only 10% of single mothers in Serbia live above the poverty line. There is no room for them in this draft budget. We see the government's attitude towards the AP Vojvodina, what attitude it will be towards young people, women, young families, refugees, children, students, and, in fact, when we look at them a little bit, we see that, apart from the Army and the Churches, no one else is interested in this government. As was the case with the Ministry Act, we see that this proposal is more tailored to ruling coalitions and less citizens, we see that it was more of a matter of meeting all the party needs rather than the needs of Serbian citizens. As we didn't agree to it then, we won't agree to it now. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not let down citizens' trust for you to meet your party needs. We'll vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2889	The People's MP Branislav Nedimovic has the word, and let the MP Vesna Pesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2890	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I will try to at least draw a little attention, as my predecessor did, and I hope that with the power of the arguments that I will speak about the budget submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will be able to convince some MPs of the need to vote for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I can see that some are already taking their heads off. I will limit myself to several parts of the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, above all, to funds that go to local self-government through the National Investment Plan and transfer funds that go towards local self-government under the Law on the financing of local self-government. The objective of the budget law is to enable us to develop quickly, to allow for the growth of gross social product, because we need to continue with this kind of growth of gross social product in order to reach the early 1990s, which we often talk about, when the standard of citizens was what we seek, of course even bigger than that. Also, the draft budget law seeks to reduce inflation, which was 6.6% in the previous year, and we think the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, will succeed. Another goal that is put before us all is to lead to tax evasion, so that we can make the tax obligations imposed by numerous Serbian citizens' laws as easy as possible and that they can make them easier and that they can achieve their basic rights as easy and efficient as possible. What I believe is the most important function of this 2007 budget, as well as of all the budgets of local self-government and the budget of the AP Vojvodina, is that it should allow for a reduction of the existence of a "grey zone", in which a large number of workers still work in Serbia, as well as to speed up investment, not only foreign investment, but also domestic investment. Many municipalities on the territory of Vojvodina, first of all, I mean the Indji municipality, the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, we have the Zemun municipality, which also works, doing everything in that direction to attract more investment to its territory, because it is a basic business. And Old Paz, I apologize, and that is all in the space of Srema: the happiness is grateful, and much is done there. I hope that this example will follow all municipalities across Serbia's territory. What the budget needs to provide is the development of infrastructure. If you provide a good infrastructure, an automatic number of interested investors will start coming to the territory of your municipality. If there's infrastructure, if there's land, if there's a good geographical location, it's going to be a larger number of employees, and if there's a larger number of employees, we can count on larger budgets in the following year, and that cycle can start to spin. I hope that the previous and this financial year will be enough to cast the whole process. I can only say that in the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, in the previous year, over 600 new jobs are open, and we hope to open more jobs in 2007, not only on the territory of this municipality, but in all municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, which is the primary goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we have many more jobs, much more investment, much more satisfied citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A set of tax laws provides for a series of tax discharges, and I wouldn't talk too much about them, but I'd just like to say something about reducing the tax rate for buying computer equipment. This is necessary, first of all, because of young people, because, I will remind you, only 20% of households in Serbia today have a computer owned, while the average is 50% in the European Union. We need to move forward in that direction and we need to enable young people to communicate correctly with the world. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the transfer funds referred to by the Republic of Serbia towards local self-government this year, worth 29,760,000,000. Therefore, it is a significant financial asset and it is very important that after the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government there has been a certain fixed local decentralisation, so local self-government will be responsible for collecting and collecting part of the tax, not just spending on budget funds, which is very good. The previous government has given a large number of instruments through which this government can do so. I just want one question to ask the finance minister, I hope he answers me today or during the debate on amendments, and it's about reducing the tax rate for the transfer of absolute rights tax. This rate was 5%, and according to the new amendment and addition of the Property Tax Act should be 2.5%, and we all know that this is the income of local self-government. I'm interested, since I don't even see an overview of the distribution of funds by local self-government in the draft budget law, whether it's the Ministry of Finance, i.e. When deploying these transfer funds, does it make sure that these funds are compensated that will be missing? I'll remind you that for some local self-government, this is a large amount of funds, because there is a traffic of real estate that is more intense in some environments than in other places, so this could lead to a drop in funds for a certain degree. There are municipalities where the initiative of construction and traffic of real estate is quite large. I would just like the minister to answer this question today, or when he has a chance to answer this question, so that representatives in local self-government, when making changes on municipal budgets, can know what they can count on in 2007. I'd like to thank you again. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the draft budget law because it means new jobs, because it means better infrastructure and because it means better Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2891	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared. I'm sorry, since you've arrived, the word has been made by MP Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2892	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I'd just like to make two general remarks. I must say, before 2000, the prime ministers came to the Assembly to explain the budget. It's some liquid from the 1990s, to be present when it comes to the budget, that they defend it, to explain it. I respect Mr Cvetkovic, who is here, and that's good, but it was some kind of, what kind of fluid of our pluralism after the 1990s, because the budget wasn't just some kind of economic project of a government, but it was also political, of course, and basic, which talks about how the country will develop economically and socially. Secondly, I'm glad that the budget was made in a month and roughly drawn up, which is a great effort in the government, but it took a few days for people to read it, to be such a public debate and to be able to surrender the amendments. It is true that many people here and the parliamentary groups have failed to make amendments. That's what we heard from this pay phone. I think that's bad. There was no need for that. I know that now, Thursday, the debate begins and it is limited by a constitutional deadline for the government's trust. Independent of that and whatever the budget was supposed to be adopted as soon as possible, that should have been allowed. Now quite briefly, given the very limited time my parliamentary group has, I will only talk about one thing, and that is the National Investment Plan. It's already been said here, and that's good, that the National Investment Plan has become part of the budget and is no longer something that was before the end of the last government, completely out of the budget. For me, however, this is a unique budget. For seven years I've been looking at budgets, seven years I've had a chance to either vote or to debate or, even, to participate in the assembly. I've never seen a budget where, practically, pre-election promises were put into the budget at one point. That might not be so bad, someone would say that they stick to the word and promise to the citizens, but the huge problem is that what belongs to the National Investment Plan, and what is set out as a special item, both in Vojvodina and for the rest of Serbia, are huge funds, which raises the question of how they are even put together. I'll give you one example. When you talk about culture, when you talk about the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, the funds that are located or being managed under paragraph -- the National Investment Plan can be 20, 30 and up to 50% of the total budget for a given ministry or institution. I think it's big funds and it's getting the impression that there's some extra resources that came from somewhere, and now they're being put into the budget and they're being led as a special item. These are exactly the same funds as the rest of the budget. My objection, first of all, to the Democratic Party, is that she agreed to it. She is not responsible for what this National Investment Plan has been done. She did not ask that those funds simply return to the budget, and that a revision of the National Investment Plan be made and that the same budget should then be made, it can be particularly highlighted, and not like this, finance what is really necessary. For all of us, one question is essentially - how did it come to be that these institutions and these decisions were made and who decided? I know how it went with the National Investment Plan, however, it seems to me that we have agreed that one, practically, pre-election campaign largely determines the character of this budget. I can give you an example. When we talk about the Ministry of Culture, on the 53rd page here, we have, say, reconstruction and modernisation of national institutions: reconstruction of the building of the Yugoslav Cinematheque in Belgrade, reconstruction and construction of three depots, reconstruction, reconstruction and adaptation of Serbia's archives in Železnik, adaptation and reconstruction of the Museum of Contemporary Art, reconstruction of the historical museum of Serbia, the continuation of the construction of a new library of the Mother of Serbia in Novi Sad and Atlas of National Construction. I don't mind any of these decisions, I support them. I'm not against it at all. All I care about is how these institutions were chosen, and not some others? Who decided and based on what? You will say that the Ministry, within the framework of its legal powers, would otherwise make such decisions, but there is a big difference. The ministries function by having advice and being able to consult experts, they can choose groups of prominent people in the area who will be, in a way, a consulting body. There are a lot of different possibilities to come up with some assessment of this character. These are practically taken on promises that have, in my opinion, been really arbitrarily done, by someone travelling through Serbia and having consulted; all the ministries reportedly have said so. The fact is, they were arbitral decisions and I'm not going to be here for a short time to make some decisions that aren't arbitral, but they're almost amazing. So you've taken the promises from an election campaign. I just wanted to point that out. When it comes to salary increases, such as in education or health care, they can't be against it. I am pleased that the budget has been increased on that side and I support that part of the budget. Let's say, in the education that I work in, I'm pleased that it first appeared, and that's what you should see. Something that's almost historic for Serbia, is that the Ministry of Defence has written what the funds are being spent on -- modernising aircraft, helicopters. For the first time, it has been shown that the military budget has gained some transparency and that citizens can see it, and I commend it. Still, I end up with this, it's a huge question for me -- why does the National Investment Plan keep showing itself special, as some addition to the budget. I think it's one political decision from the government, because you've taken a whole series of arbitration decisions from the last government in the election campaign, or, to be fair, only one party from that last government. Now we're all doomed to support something that was probably just a desire to better position people in the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2893	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Dr Nikola Žutic, then the MP of the people Bosko Ristic, and let the MP Dusan Bajatovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I'm reporting for Miss Alexander Jerkov's presentation. It seems that the bard of duchy separatism Nenad Canak has worthy young heirs. That's what we've heard these days from many of the so-called members. one percent of the duchy parties. As a historian, I would point only to some examples of the development of duchy Separatism. Historically speaking, Vojvodina's separatism in the background has the creation of a great Croatia. I'll just give you some examples. The Vojvodina Separatism of the 1930s introduces Duda Boskovic, in the form of "great Croatianism". At one time, criticism came from Zagreb at the expense of Serbian primitiveism, Byzantineism, and the Croatian Roman Catholic modelism stood out. It was said - the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, as is said today - the duke's wallet in the Duke's pocket. For example, Saturday's Matica began its work on national expansion of Croatia among the Bunjevci after the creation of Banovina Croatia in 1939. Priest Rajic was the president of the Mother of Saturday and, at one of the meetings, pointed out that Matica was founded to unite all Bunjevci and Croats in the cultural field, to create a front that is more valuable than the one who attacks or defends himself with a cold firearm. Rajic concluded that the Bunjeci and Croats received nothing on the cultural plan, except "separated foundations of eastern culture, which our people will not accept". After Rajic's speech, Saturday's Matica made a decision favouring Western Roman Catholic culture. Mutineers and Croats from Bacakh, Baranja Molly...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2895	I'm sorry, Your Honor, what does this have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2896	He's got a theme, watching...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2897	What does this have to do with the subject? We are talking about the budget, and you have reported to the Rules of Procedure and you have called on Article 226, which says - the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies, etc. Are you asking me for an explanation? You're looking for an explanation and you'll get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2898	I'm listening to the presentation of an MP from the duke's party...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2899	Dear Mr. Yellow, you'll get an explanation for this question, I've taken it personally. Thank you very much. The word has a People's MP, Bosko Ristic, and let MP Dusan Bajatovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2900	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the budget, above all because the budget is real, because it is balanced and because it provides political stability. If you look at the items in the budget, the purpose of the funds, the way the funds are collected and the way they are spent, it is certain that Serbia will have political stability in all key segments of public functions until the new budget is adopted. As an MP, I will not use this time to praise the budget, to praise individual government decisions when proposing this budget, but I want to say that increasing the amount the state will allocate in some institutions, such as education, health care, road-making, promoting even regional development, are indeed the key political definitions of this ruling coalition. Budget is an economic instrument for policy making. The ruling coalition has indeed shown that it is proposing a budget that will bring citizens a better life. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that, in the pre-election campaign, the Democratic Party has just promised Serbian citizens that in the coming period they will live better, that conditions and assumptions will be created to further advance our social community, which means increasing standards, that means better public institutions, better public service, so that citizens will have better quality, faster and more efficient services in everything that the state, as an institution, is obliged to provide to the citizens of Serbia. However, in order for these instruments, fiscal instruments, macro-economic instruments, not to be left without achieving the strategic objectives set out, we need to pay attention to how public funds will be spent in certain segments. I can say that I'm pleased to hear that the salaries in education, health care or the judiciary are increased, or that their increase is predicted, but I'm also interested in where your money ends up. I am interested, geographically, in how these budget money will be spent and to which destinations will be addressed. I therefore ask this question to the ministers, while I promise them that the DS Parliament Club will take care of how the ministries behave, that by participating in plenary sessions, but also by professional representation of citizens' interests in the committees of the National Assembly, we will insist that all those positions that are not ultimately clarified in the budget must be spent in the interests of citizens, all with the aim of encouraging more equal development of Serbia and reducing the differences that exist in Serbia's territory. I especially want to point out the fact that citizens of southern and eastern Serbia are really living in a great deal of misery. The regional development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, in a book published in January 2007, written by the government, discusses all strategic achievements, human development, about the human development index across Serbia's territory. I must tell you that the results of this research are devastating for the south and for the east of Serbia. I want to say from this place that poverty and misery live in the south and east of Serbia, that 23.5% of the population of the south and east of Serbia lives below the border of misery. The largest demographic minus is just south and east of Serbia. The highest average age is in the south and east of Serbia. The population of over 65 years is concentrated in the largest number in the south and east of Serbia. The largest unemployment rate is in the south and east of Serbia. The relationship between the development of the network of roads and railways is exactly proportional to the economic position of Serbian citizens, i.e. directly proportional to poverty. Where the poor part of Serbia is, there are no roads, there are no railways, there are no developed institutions. The human development index is absolutely the most pronounced in parts of Serbia that have the largest economic development. It seems to me that the Constitution gives me the possibility that this growth, which we will record after a year, will not be evenly distributed to all citizens of Serbia. Simply put, Serbia will be richer, Serbian society will be richer, but the differences between the rich and the poor will be growing. To prevent this, there are instruments for equal regional development in this budget, there are instruments to adopt and implement a strategy to combat poverty. This Serbia must fight poverty. If we are fighting poverty through strategy and fiscal instruments, the instruments of macroeconomic policy, that means we will have the opportunity to raise exactly the parts of Serbia that are economically unwarranted. I come from Nis, and I don't think that the Nislims are to blame for their city being tied to such a large strategic economic system as the EI, such as the machinery industry, which now really represent dinosaurs that have outlived their time, which cost a lot of money, which gives little results to citizens, first of all, Nis and the Nish environment. The citizens of Nis are not to blame that macroeconomic policy has made such a shift of economic resources that Nis has put in place as a strategic border of electronics, where there is no competition to vote for the status of employees and, in general, for the benefit of its region. If the budget should also be a basis, an instrument for achieving strategic state and national interests, I would like to point out that the worst regional path in Serbia is the one from Nis to Merdar. The only track in Serbia that does not work is from Nis to Kosovo. She's grown into weeds. If we want to protect Serbia's strategic interests in Kosovo and Metohija, we need to strengthen Serbia's rural areas, above all, towards Kosovo and Metohija, by creating industrial parks, by bringing a strategy of balanced regional development, by giving fiscal liberation the opportunity for investors to get the right and opportunity to open up, profitable jobs, to enable non-Albanian population, above all, in Kursumlia to work stablely and to earn, to treat their children there, to teach them the school, to have the opportunity to raise children through mangers and kindergartens, and to provide additional capital inflows through fiscal relief, which would give economic support to Serbian citizens, above all, non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that by such a correct approach we can prevent further strengthening of poverty and poverty, but also to raise exactly those parts of Serbia that have negative growth and which are marked in this strategy as a zone of emigration and as areas of nursing households. That is why we need to find mechanisms for funding from the National Investment Plan to be evenly deployed, above all, in those parts of Serbia whose economic growth we want to encourage, precisely, in those parts of Serbia where we want to equalise economic and natural resources. We have a situation that the south and east of Serbia is naturally very gifted, and on the other hand, there are no institutions that would bring natural wealth into line with economic development. This discrepancy leads to poverty. It is also necessary to raise the capacity of local institutions, because there are not enough computers in many institutions in local self-government, there is no possibility that people who make, say, a pension from personal work, perform their job and apply for a pension internship, but therefore have to wait three months for the application to arrive from Belgrade. We want Serbia to enter Europe, but we do not want Vojvodina and Belgrade to enter Europe before the rest of Serbia. We want Europe to come to every house in Serbia, and to the furthest house in Serbia. This means that we want to bring the institutions closer, raise their capacity and give citizens as much public service as possible. The same goes for, say, public information. The South and East of Serbia do not have national television and do not have national services. If you look at the financing of the public service and, in general, all these public institutions, you will see that there is no acceleration to the best extent of access to information on citizens' problems from the south and east of Serbia. For this, there are funds intended for certain activities in the team, i.e. in the public sector. We, as MPs and as legislative authority, must take care of our position, the control function of the executive authority. That's why I call on all MPs, regardless of party commitment, because I'm talking about things that are not of party importance. These are matters of importance for the lives of citizens living in abandoned parts of Serbia and are unjustly in a position to exercise their rights in a worse or worse way. All citizens are equal before the law, but, apparently, institutions are not equal to all citizens, especially in those poorest parts of Serbia. That is why we must all work together to make sure that parts of the money that are intended for equal regional development are spent in a way that will be transparent and that projects that come from these underdeveloped parts of Serbia have priorities and that those local environments that do not have the capacity to make projects in this direction help. This means further education of these people and additional capacity-lifting, investment in technology, investment in electronic government of the state, YU management, which means that every local community in Serbia should have a computer and a regular employee, as well as a single electronic database, so that, according to the system of one counter, citizens address their local community and local office and exercise their rights. And, of course, a unique electoral list and all that will allow for the functioning of the rule of law and the rule of law. I really accept all the suggestions. I, too, have held my views for the past few days on possible solutions to this problem that, through misery and poverty, affect the east and south of Serbia. I expect support from other parliamentary groups, support and other parties, to be actively involved in the way that the government is approaching citizens and that it really becomes a public service, and that this budget is an essential instrument for the implementation of such political objectives in the field of macro-economy. That is why I call on the government's representatives to pay attention to this misery and suffering that affects citizens in certain parts of Serbia and that these instruments, which we will give them in their hands by voting this budget, use in the right way. I believe that in the future, the way of budgeting needs to be changed, i.e. The budgeting system must be different from what it ate today. This means that the Assembly, together with the government, would have to prepare the budget for next year throughout the year. This calls for certain changes in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the position of the Assembly committees and the role of parliamentarians in the budgeting, to provide the budget and the draft budget in time to MPs, which would convey the needs of citizens from those parts of Serbia from which they encourage and the needs of citizens with constant contacts. I would like to point out another fact that increasing health costs, for education, as well as increasing other costs for public institutions will not have the same effect for all citizens of Serbia. The increase in cultural costs will mean that where cultural institutions exist, much more will be spent, and these will be large cities and large municipalities, which have a tradition in the area of culture, and those abandoned parts of Serbia, which do not have the institutions, will not be able to spend a penny of funds for these purposes. If we talk about education and if money increases in education, education salaries, those municipalities that don't have enough students and a sufficient number of schools, too, these funds won't benefit much. Because it's demographically old municipalities and old environments, there's no students, there's no students, so there's no professor. That is why we need to help these areas to gain new investment and to give people opportunities for local and economic development, to raise the capacity of local institutions, to create the possibility of opening new, profitable, jobs, and thus the possibility of creating new families and giving birth to children. This will raise demographic growth and natality, which is the best protection of Serbian state and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2901	We've got a few reactions to the Rules of Procedure. First, he has the word of Alexander Jerkov the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2902	I'm reporting by article 101. The Rules of Procedure, because, apparently, what I said was misread. First, when we talk about that movement in the '30s, do you know who Joca Lalosevic is? He was one of the leaders of the radicals of that time, who was also in the coalition that was at the time advocating duchy autonomy and which is one of the creators of the autonomous idea. So, the issue of Vojvodina autonomy is neither party nor national, it is a question of economics and that everyone belongs to what he has earned, to that citizen of Vojvodina and to that citizen of Capca, and to Kragujevac, and to Nis. It is not separatism to demand that what has been earned remain with whoever has earned it, it is not separatism to fight against each sixth dinar remaining citizens of Vojvodina and it is not separatism to rebel against taking away 450m euros for the journey they have already paid. Is separatism if you fight that your family or your fellow citizens belong to what they have earned and manage what they have? I'm asking you, is that separatism? I just want to say that it's perfectly understandable what you're talking about history, that's what you should talk about, and let us talk about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2903	The People's MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the MPs Nikola Savic and Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2904	Mr Albianic, Article 104. Rules of Procedure, so you can read and see what's going on. Now let me explain to you, respected citizens, who are monitoring this transmission. We have a second edition of the democratic bloc and the Social Democrats League and the Democratic Party are now seemingly arguing. One is for the autonomy of the north, and the other one is for the autonomy of the south. Now we heard from Mr. Ristic something, but he didn't answer our question why he didn't say it in the government. Anything he said from this pay phone could have been nice enough to tell the minister, he could've told Markovic, he could've told Gilas, he could've done this for nine years, and he could've told this guy from the Agency. Nice, sit down and talk, so says Mr. Ristic - you know what, don't do the railroad from Prokupil to Kurzumlia. I ask, as MP of the Democratic Party, that this railroad is working. I would remind him that he voted for the Law on Railways, and because of that law, that railroad is not working. This is how the MPs and the audience and the public dissuade themselves, because they allegedly keep their promises. The Democrats are fighting, and that's why I'm asking the question -- what is this fraction? Whether it's some faction that's tearing down the government or the faction that's in the Assembly and supporting the government. Sit down, nicely, at Tadic's on the canoe and discuss what your policy is, but your policy can't go to 16 fronts. Let it go, DS, you don't have any politics. Your policy is what to shake, what to steal, what to steal. It's your policy, there's no other policy with you. A man comes out here, criticises the government, come on, if that's his attitude, I agree, but let's see why that attitude doesn't dominate his mind when he has to vote. No, then he'll vote for the budget. Why was he criticizing? He criticized to confuse the public. Of course, the journalists who are paid for it will get that part out, now some part of it will be made, as I hear there's talk of autonomy in Nis. God save me! The same position as "where is our money". Well, ask, Nis citizens, Bosko Ristic, where is your money. Nine years is the government in Nis. Let them tell you where the money is. It was oil for democracy, so it was air for democracy, so it was empty straw for democracy, there was everything for democracy in Nis, there was a storm of electricity; they were the culprits that you didn't have in Nis. Don't blame anyone. In that sense, it offends the dignity of all normal citizens in the Republic of Serbia, because people come out, so here they act, like, some fight. Or you're proving that you're not the government. A gathering of some, some interested group, one water heater from which the shower peeks, and at each jet a piece, to suck the money out of the citizens of Serbia, to take and to escape. It's time to start discussing the budget, not these delays and these disablings, to let the citizens know that the matter of budgets is a matter of government's criminal behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2905	Mr. Krasic, we all advocate the dignity of the National Assembly. I hope we don't have to vote on this, to make a statement especially about that member of the voting day. Do you agree with that? Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Nikola Savic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. Namely, I come from Nis as well as Mr. Bosko Ristic, so I ask this at Mr. Ristic's name and in whose name the press and the media are addressed when they advocate autonomy in Nis and the southeastern part of Serbia. I want to remind him that in the last elections, the Democratic Party in Nis won 19% of the vote, slightly less than one-fifth. So, every fifth Nishli didn't support DS in Nis. If we take the region of Southeastern Serbia, then that percentage is even smaller, I don't have exactly the right data. So, Mr. Ristic, you should know that the Serbian Radical Party has won 50% of your votes, that it has the greatest influence in Nis as well, and in the whole region for which you advocate autonomy. This is where you mentioned that this region should have a national service. I really didn't understand you. If by this national means belonging to a nation, it is that in that region the most Serbs live in, but we must admit that there are other nationalities, there are Bulgarians, there are many Roma, and some others, so I would ask you to be precise. Please don't let the people in the area we come from, and you and I impose some things. Enough with this Serbia and Kosovo, and the Raske areas, and we now see that Separatism is being advocated in Vojvodina. That which ye intercede in Nis shall not pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2907	Thank you. We will forward your question to Mr. Ristic, although, in accordance with Article 226, he is. the question does not refer to the MPs. Article 226 says something completely different. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2908	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting under Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Independent Kosovo is the only solution, said Assistant Culture Minister for International Co-operation Branislav Dimitrijevic, in a statement to the list "AS". Let me quote, briefly. "Branislav Dimitrijevic, assistant Culture Minister Voji Brajovic in charge of international relations, European integration, development of management in the field of culture, in internet correspondence with Kosovo artist Albert Hetaj said he believes that the only political solution for Kosovo and Metohija is independence and emancipation of Kosovo society. This was written by email and sent to the Kosovo artist mentioned for an exhibition on normality and art in Serbia in 1989-2001 at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade. Branislav Dimitrijevic says he has the right to his opinion and that his stance on Kosovo and Metohija is known, this is not the first time I have publicly expressed my view of the best political solution for Kosovo and Metohija's future status." Dear gentlemen, either I do not live in the same country with you, or Mr Dimitrijevic is not a member of the same government elected by this parliament, or the Democratic Party, whose case is Mr Dimitrijevic, does not implement his policy, or Boris Tadic falsely represents DS objectives when addressing the public on the issue of Kosovo's final status and Metohija. It is a matter of human and political morality when the government of the Republic of Serbia will replace Mr Dimitrijevic from the post of assistant culture minister for international co-operation. Or Mr. Dimitrijevic is just a test balloon that in the less-known media in Serbia makes certain statements and serves as a caller for a policy that you secretly implement. Identify yourself, gentlemen, what your position is regarding Kosovo and Metohija. If this man remains an assistant to the culture minister for international co-operation, you can no longer convince anyone that Mr. Boris Tadic and his best man, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, are implementing a national policy that is not national subversive. So please, do whatever it takes for this man to be no longer a high-ranking state deputy. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense what you're doing. He's got 10 of these statements. He has the right to personally think whatever he wants, but he's part of the official policy of this country. I am a member of the Committee on Culture and Media at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a National MP, of course, and most kindly ask that this issue be considered, if not before, then on the day we discuss the trust of the Government. I welcome Mr. Gilas, since he's here for the first time. I want to say publicly that it makes no sense for the nepotism you cultivate in the Democratic Party to raise to such a high level, I guess there is one Gilas who doesn't have to be a minister or assistant minister. That's not normal. I don't mind, but it says that either you have a problem providing proper personnel, or you have obligations that you can't meet, because it's completely impossible to explain to one family that two spouses are in the same government, one minister, and another assistant minister in another portfolio. It's not normal, it's incorrect, it's politically harmful and it's politically inexplicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2909	Mr. Baralich, please don't get into family relationships. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Let me ask you, is it a replica, since you have the right to do that, or is it according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must respond to two insults by the MP Alexander Jerkov. One, I think, is the consequence of her ignorance, and the other, youthful pride and insolence. Namely, you don't have a duke radical who was an autonomist. Radicalist in Vojvodina, Jasa Tomic, was the biggest supporter of Vojvodina's accession to Serbia. I recommend the summation of the works of Yash Tomic. We finally betrayed them, we organized and found the publisher, I think it's the Prometheus from New Sad. Read it, you'll understand what kind of a heart you should be. The other thing is that you're so easily thrown over your mouth -- we're a party of the past, and you're, like, a party of the future. That's what this youth of yours says unsustainable. I think you should hold back your youth a little bit, you're in the National Assembly, you represent all the citizens of Serbia, including those of us who have grandchildren. We are certainly not a party of the past. If anyone can take care of the future, it's the ones with little kids hanging around the house. Just so you know. That when you run around the house, you can no longer worry about anything but the future. So, young years are only an advantage if you can present it to the citizens of Serbia as an advantage and if you don't think it's the only advantage you have when you go out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2911	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic and then Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2912	Ms. Jerkov, it may not be all that you listed, but let me remind you that 15 days ago in "Politica" there was an ad by the Ministry of Science of Vojvodina, asking the institutes to apply for a competition for certain projects, so the conditions of the competition are stated. It is said that institutes from Vojvodina and surrounding countries can compete. I ask you if Serbia is the surrounding country of Vojvodina or Serbian institutes have no right to compete in the competition? It's separatism, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2913	I thank Bosca Ristic for dropping out of construction. National MP Mika Vlaović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2914	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm the first, perhaps, to break the Rules of Procedure. It's not according to the Rules of Procedure. I have an important announcement from my community. On Saturday, I attended a meeting in the local community of Gardinovac. "Restrej" bought PIC "Titel".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2915	Mr. Vlaovic, I'm sorry, but what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2916	He received consent from the province to conduct an interrogation on the second and third-class orna, which is prohibited by law, unless it is of general interest to exploit the sand. I quickly calculated that, on these 100 acres, five meters is the thickness of the sand, it costs 2.5 billion, and then there will be some dump, which will interfere with a few surrounding villages, which is certainly not a general interest, but I'm afraid, when it comes to big money, and personal interest can become a general interest. So I urge that it be prevented before something is done. It was me and Mrs Ivana Zecevic, the same MP from the Serbian Radical Party. There was no one from the assembly, they probably gave that green light. There's something else in the town of Titusl that's rarely in the community. There are just over 1,000 hectares of state land for which the Law on Agricultural Land is set to be sold per 100 hectares, so to the emigrants and to the one who buys it. No one has even issued a bid and the country is not selling, so "Restrey" 1000 hectares will sow for free for one year. That's 150,000 euros, if 30% of the municipality remains, that's 45 million. For a small and poor municipality like the municipality of Titell, 45m euros is a big deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2917	Please let us use the Rules of Procedure properly. Mr. Rajko Baralic, once again in the Rules of Procedure. I suppose, Mr. Baralich, I challenged you with my comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2918	I'm just looking at you, and it's yours to make mistakes and mine to answer. So, I, Mr. Albianic, didn't speak ill of any family in Serbia. On the contrary, my education tells me not to discuss family relations that way. I wish all the families the best. I'm talking about one principle that this government has established -- that in human policy, which in some elements is not, but, above all, only personal politics, nepotism is a key principle, which has been here since a few months ago. So, it's not normal, you can, of course, find arguments that would oppose my position, it's not normal for the President of the Republic to be Minister of Defense to take the godfather. It's not normal, it can't be explained. It's not normal for one of the best journalists to talk about her husband every night for five minutes, where he stayed on that day and so on. I'm talking about the foreign minister and his wife, who's the editor on TV. That's not normal. It works here as a principle. I stand up to that principle. I don't interfere with how it works in my family. So if you don't have enough personnel, call a public competition and people will come forward. You're looking for exactly what you need for specific positions. Ministers are political figures, while deputies and assistants, elected secretaries don't have to be, so find the right people. That was my remark. God forbid I interfere in any way with how families operate in Serbia. For the Socialist Party of Serbia and for me, who was born in the Takavo-Mirnička region, the family is sacred and don't impute it to me. I didn't speak ill of any member of this family privately in any way, but I publicly tell you, as a politician, that this is a disastrous decision, which has inconceivable consequences for Serbia. It's impossible to be consistent and consistent in politics if you have a family manifesto as a government. That's not normal. I'll fight against that principle while I'm gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2919	We're going back to the agenda. National MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2920	Dear fellow MPs, if the people do not have the best opinion on MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly, the government certainly does. This is the minimum pages and materials you need to read in this united debate. I'm absolutely sure the government thinks of every MP as the least wunderkind as soon as they want us to study this in 24 hours. Since I have to move to the budget, because my time is limited, just a few notes. If you are judging by these seven billion euros, the budget for this next, second-hand fiscal year, you can conclude that money is not a problem; money is gone, and there is no job in Serbia from this budget. Why? I would remind you that on 13 November 2006, the Government of the Republic of Serbia published a Memorandum of Budget on Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2007, with projections for 2008. It is a document to show, in fact, what the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is in the current financial year, as well as political and economic projections for the next two years. Now I ask the question to the Ministers, who sits here -- why is this budget memorandum, which is a legal obligation, gentlemen from the Government, not divided? Is it so different what Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic thought three or four months ago and what has changed so much since Boris Tadic was asked in the Serbian government? I will remind you that we received the budget of the Republic of Serbia, first in September and October, and then when Tomislav Nikolic was elected, and then they say it took them weeks to make a new budget and Mr Vlatkovic congratulated the government. On what, gentlemen? Is this the introduction of a new capacity, the capacity of the Democratic Party, which means some major change in policy, above all, economic, to be led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is that someone who wants to explain it to us? Since I don't have much time, I'd only give a few clarifications. Since it's 274 billion, it seems to me, I apologize if I've wronged the number, from the VAT, how do you think it's growing, and you're boasting real revenue for the budget? Without VAT cuts, there is no economic growth in Serbia. No pay cuts, no new employment. 940 thousand people do not work in Serbia. The economy is overloaded. You handle everything from the economy. You've even put new six excise dinars on the gas. I also speak as someone who has a few dozen employees. It's just not possible. This budget is neither transitional nor developmental. He's a consumer. You spend over 50%. Next, I ask you, what are your further intentions towards the banking system? It says here that Serbia, with 10 billion euros plus private responsibilities, imagine, private responsibilities of citizens and businesses, for citizens I don't know, but for businesses, too, guaranteed by the state of Serbia, it can. So, we're close to some over-indebted. How do you think with banks that are all lines of foreign banks, they're just registered with us, you end the banking oligopoly, you fuck the interest rates, and you provide valid loans, first of all, for agriculture, and then for industry? Then, I don't see how you're going to affect one of the key social processes, which is called the privatisation process. Privatisation in Serbia was not only Burzerska, it wasn't just a robbery, it was not only in bankruptcy processes, it was also in the staged tender, auctioned privatisations. The characteristic of the privatisation process in Serbia is that it is socially unfair. That's what all citizens feel, and what I'm more interested in, it's economically inefficient. No new technologies, no new markets, no new products, no new fresh capital, no efficient management today in Serbia. There are only new owners and sales of assets that someone has acquired to pay off the loans we re-installed to him in co-operation with the government. Such privatisation is economically inefficient and I am very interested in how the Republic of Serbia's budget will grow. With seven billion euros, we are unable to reform Serbia effectively, make the institutions effective. We're in no condition to settle all social needs, and it can't just be from excises, seas from the economy. I don't see these seven billion being used properly. There are no conditions to develop greenfield investments. I'm glad Mr. Gilas is here. Yesterday, Mr. Vlahovic spoke, nothing ugly and nothing personal, as we should believe, because he was an authorised budget representative, that these 400, 500, 600 million from the National Investment Plan, I couldn't catch up with and I couldn't see which ministry it was all in, would be accompanied by one document telling us which projects to invest in. Why didn't you just tell us? What's the problem? I want to believe it's going to be development projects. There wouldn't be a lot of paper, because here you have a little paper. I would just ask Mr. Cvetkovic to say, and I'm counting on Mr. Gilas to do it for sure, because it will be the subject of a debate in the Assembly, that we will spend 600m euros and two billion for next year. It would be very nice if someone here had given us the structure and the actual amount of budget reserves, to see the quality of the budget reserves and how they are placed, how they are used and so on. You know why? It's very important for one country's economic stability, let's see what happens to those foreign reserves. If the IMF and the World Bank know that, I don't know why the MPs can't know that. After all, doubts about the quality of foreign reserves have been expressed. Since I promised my fellow MPs I wouldn't take more than five minutes, and I took six and a half, I'd say one more thing. I want to remind the public that thanks to the SPS policy and its support for the former minority government, these social benefits are also allowed to be no less than these small ones. I mean that 60 per cent limit we didn't allow to drop pensions in Serbia. Secondly, I'd like to refer this to Mr. Ristic. I think you in the Democratic Party should stop messing around, or you personally, because I suppose that might not be the policy of the Democratic Party, autonomy and regionalisation. Autonomy exists in Vojvodina, and it is more a matter of some historical facts and state of consciousness, if I may say so, and the regionalisation of Serbia, which was designed by the Constitution as one social process that we should implement for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, is something else. Autonomy should only be used to that extent, and only for Vojvodina, because, in this case, I hope that Kosovo will remain in Serbia, not as some ministers think, so we will discuss the degree of autonomy for Kosovo, while everything else should be an effective process of decentralisation, a return to local self-government and the approximation of power to citizens. I'm sorry I don't have more time. Let me repeat a clear position, so there's no confusion. The only argument for this budget is that the ruling majority has 126 or, perhaps, 130 MPs. It is the only thing that is unsustainable at this point and to remind you that the SPS Parliamentary Group, uniquely, all 16 MPs, will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2921	He has the word MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and then MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in which we are today, to adopt the budget at the end of June and, as some of my colleagues said in this assembly, that we were, in fact, brought to this point to adopt the budget in teat, at the last moment, asking the question - who is to blame? Is it the opposition MPs, or were it representatives of ruling parties who had been excruciating Serbian citizens for months in aimless agreements on how to divide the cake of power and then, barely a few months later, managed to corrupt a government? Today, at the last minute, we bring the budget, after six months of funding, which was temporary. It was a state functioning system in the first half of the year -- temporary funding. However, there is also the question of why inflation is at this point unrealistically high, when, in fact, we had restrictive financing elements. However, since we haven't had a chance to see a real final consumption account in the past six years, I hope that after this budget we will have it, so we will have the opportunity to comment more on it. Since the government continues with politics, which is a fundamental threat to the Serbian Radical Party, that the regulation regulates certain basic things in the budget, such as subsidies, such as the National Investment Plan, instead of laws, which is a duty and obligation, we will have the situation that citizens will not be equal, but that funds from the budget, particularly related to subsidies and loans, will be able to get, as we had in the previous government, in the area of agriculture -- only those citizens or enterprises that are close or are members of those parties from which the resolute ministers come. There is then no talk about the equality of citizens before the law, but only about the similarity and membership of a particular political party. When, for example, the National Investment Plan is regulated by a regulation rather than by law, we can rightly ask the question of who will decide on the projects, although everyone says we will win, we heard about it, some plan later, later. It doesn't satisfy us, because it had to be presented by the budget. Who guarantees that this will be done in a legitimate way and, more importantly, according to the real needs of the citizens and the real needs of the Republic? I don't trust that, especially taught by previous experience, so I hope we get some detailed explanation for this, which we'll be able to discuss a little bit more in detail. In particular, there has been a promotional solution in the media that talks about reducing the tax on absolute rights from five to 2.5%, which, according to the government, the budget maker, will help citizens to get to their first apartment, which was one of the key solutions. But the bottom line of this is that the government won't see how, in fact, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how many of them, who, even with green interest, who are working today, can even get to the first apartment. By increasing the budget that is ahead of us, we will have, you will see, soon setting up fiscal and monetary policies in a way that will increase interest on almost all loans. The mandatory reserve will increase, interest will increase, and in such a way those citizens who will be reduced to 2.5%, for example, or above, will pay the tax money significantly more, through larger interest rates. That way, they won't get anything. They'll just be further damaged. At the same time, the government does not want to face the fact that citizens live really badly. When we talk about the field of social and health care, we can see that the funds that stand out here, for example, for pension funds, even with the transfer of transfer funds, 95 billion dinars, because of the bad laws that were passed in the previous meeting, which were supported by the parties that are now making up the majority. We'll have a situation where pensioners live more and more miserable every year. These people are really socially and economically endangered. To someone who is a layman, what is foreseen here through the items of the budget, or after members of the government and the parties who praise the budget, can be done as something that, retailes, will be very favourable. However, what we will experience is that the very most socially endangered layers and those who need help most will be truly damaged. As for the increase in employment, the only place we can see an increase in employment is the increase in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. The most dramatic examples are - the cabinet of the Prime Minister increases by 120% and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister by 260%. For these people, who have been appointed, high salaries, official cars, cabinets and high privileges will be provided, from which citizens will see nothing. It's an increase in employment that I really admit to being seen in this budget and that's what it is, obviously, politics and these governments. Otherwise, when it comes to increasing the budget for these working experts, I'd like to know if it's about experts who hunts the Hague indictees at night, whether it's about specialists who break into apartments, like it was about that break-in on Bezanjska hair and where the budget sees the funds that are set aside for these actions, so let's see who these people are, where they are paid and whether Serbian citizens are also spending their budget money. Of course, the high responsibility that all my predecessors spoke of, which the state has in private and public debt, not good enough protection of domestic production and a significant increase in the external trade deficit, have no clear mechanisms in this budget to prevent it. It is particularly worrying that the resources that the state is devoting for this are insufficient. In particular, insufficient protection in the food industry, in terms of protection of domestic production, is a concern that domestic production is being destroyed in such a way. When we talk about restructuring public enterprises and, later, about privatisation, we first need to talk about the state's ability to restructure. Unfortunately, from the very process of analysis of the situation, through the choice of a strategy for restructuring, or privatisation of enterprises, the choice of privatization advisers, we have in the past had the opportunity to notice many mistakes, many school examples of poorly implemented transformation, but also many corruption and illegal activities. Since it is, unfortunately, parties that make up the government today, we can be afraid to look at new greenfields and other foreign investments, which will certainly be rejected with such instability. The lack of a final account, which we have talked a lot about, for all these years before us, from 2002 to 2006, shows that citizens of Serbia and their MPs cannot get an insight into how budget money is spent. The fact that there is no advice from the State Auditing Institution, which we have talked about here for days, doesn't take too long to surprise us when there is no Constitutional Court of the Republic, or other mechanisms that you can protect right, and then it's impossible to see how budget money is spent. We had, unfortunately, also in this assembly an example that MPs had elected presidents, or that the ruling parties had elected board presidents from those parties to whom the resolution minister belonged. That's a clear indication to you that we don't have a desire for control. I only withdraw as a parallel for lack of financial instruments when controlling the budget. The MPs of the SRS, for all this, will not vote in favour of the budget. We believe that this budget will not meet the macroeconomic objectives, that it is neither developmental nor social, and that the projected deficit, regardless of the government's optimism, will bring major problems, so there will be a proposal for budget rebalancing very quickly before this assembly. Unfortunately, the bad solutions ahead will hit the citizens of Serbia most, and then it will be too late and every day we lose lose Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2923	National Messenger Zoran Nikolic, and then MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2924	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Dear fellow MPs, it is unusual for the state when the budget is adopted during June of the month, but it is always a good situation and news for budget users. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Albian, that Mrs. Radeta doesn't throw it at me. You know I'm always correct to you. So, I have not noticed in the discussion so far that MPs, especially those who are against the budget, have referred to the agrarian budget, which is of paramount importance to our country, given that agricultural production has a significant share, in general, in our economic activities. What I want to say here, of course, by confirming that the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for this budget, is that I realize that the amount of the agrarian budget in this year is about 26 billion, which is an increase of approximately 30% compared to 2006. If we look at the last five or six agrarian budgets, we see that it is increasing in continuity, and that's good. So those who are going to criticise the agrarian budget will say that even these funds can't solve all the problems of farmers and, generally, agriculture in our country, and they'll be right. Simply, on the basis of the resources available to the state, this amount of funds for the agricultural budget is optimal. With these funds, amounting to 26 billion dinars, we are making it clear that agriculture is extremely important. The proposed agrarian budget sets out the objectives, based on these funds that have been allocated, and I will read them briefly. The goal is to build and maintain an efficient agricultural sector, which can compete on the world market, contributing to a rise in national income. What we definitely need to understand is that we need to work on the quality of our agricultural production, that products from the very beginning, from cultivation, so through the processing industry, must meet the standards of the European and world markets, that we must be competitive on this plan. Unfortunately, the situation is such that in many areas we are not. The resources we have, of course, are a good foundation and a good base to work on in that field. This year, significant grants will be allocated, which will primarily go in the direction of establishing standards, i.e. what I said earlier, to encourage and introduce modern quality control systems, such as EUROGAP and ISO standards. All this is important so we can even place our agricultural products. This year, considerable resources will be allocated to irrigate our surfaces. It's inadmissible and it really is a devastating fact that we're watering so little, and that, in doing so, we have a land where there's a lot of rivers, a lot of irrigation channels, and these resources are untapped. Of course, they require big investments. A considerable amount of funds will be allocated this year. According to the information I have, it's somewhere around 65m euros. A favourable loan will be taken from the World Bank, precisely to regulate the issue, i.e. to speed up investment in irrigation systems. Also, large funds will be invested in the Republic Water Directorate, and in this composition we have many water streams that are not passing. Among other things, I expect that this year the problem of solving will be raised, i.e. regulation of the Sava stream in a work belonging to the municipality of Vladimirci, as Sava is a significant river, an international river, and Serbia - a state that participates in the process of training the Sava River as a water river, invests significant funds. It is of paramount importance that for the Sabac, the city from which I come, as a city with great agricultural potentials, and for Sremska Mitrovica and, in general, that part of Western Serbia. Then, there will be significant funds in the form of favourable loans, which will be placed to raise new plantations, both vines, hops, and so on. It's extremely important, we are the climate in which the fruit succeeds. It's a big business in the world. There are examples of countries that have invested significant funds in recent years and are now returning to them. I'll give you an example. For example, Turkey managed to achieve a 250m-euro income for only one cherry variety, which it exported last year, and the process lasts between three and five years. Of course large funds have been invested, of course these funds are returning in the best possible way. All in all, this agrarian budget is on the line of the previous ones with this trend of growth. We're aware that it should have been and that those funds could have been bigger. To all those who want to deal with agriculture and who see their perspective in agriculture, this agrarian budget is good support. I would take the opportunity to remind all those who have registered agricultural holdings, and I believe those who are seriously in that branch know that tomorrow is the deadline for applying for short-term loans. Once again I remind them to compete, tomorrow it's 20. The funds allocated for this purpose amount to about a billion and a half dinars. These are extremely favourable funds, given at 5% interest, with a fee of 1% and an amount of - to 1 hectare - 12,000 dinars, up to five hectares - 60,000 dinars, up to 10 hectares - 120,000 and up to 20 hectares - 240,000 dinars. What I want to open here as a question that remains unclear to me and I haven't received an answer in the past two or three days, is a question for the finance minister. It is clear that, after adopting this budget, we will have one great thing, which is that young people, or young couples, will be free of sales taxes when solving their housing issues. We're all in favour of keeping young people in the country. There is no village development unless there are young people and those who will work in agriculture. I am very interested in whether there is room for young people in the country to be users of this too, that when they solve their housing issue or simply build a house, when they separate themselves from their father, simply put, that they are also exempt from the sales tax. I think it would be a good and strong signal that as a state we stand behind young farmers, or agricultural producers, who see their perspective in agriculture. In the end, we, the DSS Parliamentary Group will vote, of course, for this budget, and because of the agrarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2925	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2926	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. I think Mr Nikolic, with all due respect for his personality, presented the wrong information on height, i.e. an increase in the agricultural budget this year. The truth is, I think we need to let the citizens know what the budget was last year and how planned it is this year, so how much increase it is. Also, I am informing him and all other MPs, and in the end, all citizens, that, right in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I will talk about the agrarian budget. Unfortunately, I haven't come to my turn yet. The agricultural budget last year was 23,057,266,000 dinars. This year's budget is 26.095,751,714 dinars. So the increase is not 30%, as Mr Nikolic said, but is less than 15%. I couldn't calculate the exact number, because by 15% increase, that budget should be 26.515,000. So it increased by less than 15% compared to last year's, somewhere, by my rough estimate, about 12%. We know well what some parties in the pre-election campaign promised, exactly, to farmers, and I hope to explain this in more detail through my presentation. Only, for the sake of truth, did I have to act this way and correct the esteemed Mr. Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2927	The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and then the Messenger of Predrag Umicevic. The remaining time for the LDP parliamentary group is ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2928	Since we have this short time left, I'd like to say that, by my estimate, this budget does not meet the objectives... ...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2929	Put down some microphones.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2930	... The budget does not correspond, above all, to what Serbia needs most, which is that it has a competitive economy. I'll explain it very briefly. If you look at the increase in expenditure by 20%, this increase in expenditure comes first of all from the increase in earnings. It can be said that we have become region leaders for profit, and that these profits do not correspond to what was produced, meaning national gross income. This is one item that shows that such an economy cannot be competitive. The other thing, which also shows the waste of this budget, is that no item has been changed. Not only are the expenditures over the profits the most increased, but the items as well. So they're basically the same or they're added completely unnecessary. Instead of abolishing some ministries, which I don't know what they're for, say, the Ministry of Faith, the Ministry of Diaspora, the Ministry of Kosovo. What would the Ministry of National Investment Plan, which was otherwise criticised as a very non-transparent idea, and which they called the pre-election and election investment plan? This has all been taken over and these items have not been changed, they have either been increased or some have been slightly reduced, if the National Investment Programme is viewed, because it has been allocated to several years. This kind of expansion of consumption leads to that, instead of controlling public consumption and that it, by my estimate, falls by about 5%, it, on the contrary, jumps to over 50%. What Mr. Minister and others in the Democratic Party have explained about the deficit, I would draw attention to that deficit so far is not very dangerous, it can be covered, but we must bear in mind that the third license is being put into the proceeds -- about 25 million, and since it is a one-time sale, if we continue that trend that one-time sales are entering into deficit coverage, and if it were a long-term practice in Serbia, we would get to that point in order for consumption to have to be drastically, shockingly reduced, or to go into debt to cover these deficits. There's no way this kind of policy can attract investment. That's next. Not only is this not where the Serbian economy is not competitive, or the state is too expensive, but this kind of system makes investors have no reason to invest. I'll show you why. It's very clear, if we have an increase in consumption, the demand is growing at the same time, and when demand grows, then there's high pressure on imports, and that means external trade deficit. It then puts the next pressure on inflation. It must be noted that there is likely to be a major restriction in monetary policy in order to maintain inflation at the estimated 6.5 to 7%. Then the taps that apply to interest and interest must be rotated, and who will then invest on such high interest rates. Besides, that's what we had last year. I think that Mr. Cvetkovic, on one show, said that in the last quarter of 2006, large interest growth had to go due to the fact that huge spending had been curbed, due to the election campaign and the raise of earnings, in order to buy votes. This growth in interest, restrictive policy, heavy consumption, does not really contribute to the fact that we can talk about the reform budget. I'd like to draw attention to one more moment. If you look at how restructuring is planned, i.e. reforms, we can see that still the parties, or the state manages about 50% of the economy. I would like to mention that, even, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic said he might be won that he is an ethicist, but that he has delayed, for the next government plan, the restructuring of the economy, means that there is a restructuring of the sale of public enterprises, but said the following -- Serbia has no resources, but it has public enterprises. That's absurd. He doesn't distinguish public enterprises from the oil source. The resources are oil, and public enterprises are not resources. We will be leaders in the state economy. I'd still like to say that in companies where the economy is completely privatized, a separate management function from ownership. With us, we can still see how the new government is preparing to take over management functions according to the party criteria, which in no way contributes to what Mr. Vlahovic said yesterday, that our economy, i.e. that this budget is transparency. Not that it is not transparency, but rather restoring a vertical division in the ministries, by setting up party personnel to manage businesses, by using citizens' assets for party needs. I would also suggest that this assembly builds a commission to examine how much "Telecom" and other companies provide for the printing of various magazines that propagate government ideas, for example, for "New Serbian Political Thought", which is also funded by Telecom, to show how much it is spent on party financing and how many party personnel are employed in public enterprises. This would be a very useful analysis, because through this we would save a lot of resources to citizens, because such management is a waste of huge resources. In the end, I would mention just that, this is about the ethics of our economy, that we can talk about skating into the party economy, and all of these processes that I've pointed out are the consequences of something that has really been found by the previous government, but the partners don't have the courage to point that out. Last year, because of the election, there was an abuse of the state register. This abuse was made through the National Investment Plan, by raising profits, by spending, and now we have, practically, a lost year for reforms, because the cash register has been abused. I can say that the minister, however, could make a greater effort to make this abuse of the register, which has been said several times, cut down, to reduce items, because such a consumer and such a wasteful budget goes to the expense of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2931	The People's Messenger Predrag Umicevic, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2932	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today one of the highest documents of a state, and that is the budget. What's important is the budget is an explicit document, which can be clearly seen through columns, through numbers, through figures, and there's no need to attack here by opposition parties with bad words. It simply speaks very clearly of the ruling coalition's policy, because certainly the budget represents an expression of the coalition's policy, which represents the government's, or parliamentary majority in this House. For this budget, I'd say it's balanced. We have a clear balance of income and expenditure. Regardless of the defined deficit, which I think won't be a problem, for the simple reason, because the revenues are realistically estimated, and the expenditures are pretty balanced, I think all budget users will be respected by the end of the year, as I like to say, minimally with 100%. This balance is reflected in the need of all social categories that define the budget, as well as the business categories and the part that is closer to me, because I come from the manager's ranks, which are the budget development categories. I am personally a representative of a more ambitious policy. However, a more ambitious approach to budgeting also poses a greater risk, i.e. that some budget users are not respected if we do not properly assess the revenue side, i.e. if we prename it. This pre-reimbursement of budgets is characteristic, some say, of election years, but I don't think this year is the same budget as it is anymore, is the expression of a stable macroeconomic policy, because it represents an absolute possibility of realising all budgetary users, as I said, at 100%. The developmental characteristics of this budget are, firstly, reflected in the National Investment Plan. If we took a good look at Mr. Minister's exposés, the NIP, unlike last year, has increased 4,85 times, which is very important, and that's a good trend. He is taking part in public investment, with a growth trend of 7.1 per cent to 11.9 per cent. It should also be noted, as an important feature of this budget, when we talk about the NIP, that it is also planned from regular sources of budgets and that it is not the story - if it is, we will be, so we will finance something, but it is precisely defined by regular budget revenues, which means that NIP funds will be placed, or projects covered by the NIP will be realised. What does that actually mean? The National Investment Plan should ensure the development policy of our society. If we go back a little bit, Serbia has been bypassed in recent years, as a country that has a good geographical position, Corridor 4. We are witnessing that about 20 days ago an agreement was signed between Bulgaria and Romania on the construction of the bridge, it is Corridor 4. While we have earlier adopted some more militant budgets, Corridor 7 and Corridor 10 has been bypassed through Serbia by Corridor 4 and has been given to the importance of neighbouring countries, that is Romania and Bulgaria. We didn't build our infrastructure. I think investing in infrastructure, through NIP, strengthens our society's capacities and all economic capacity and makes the country more attractive to foreign investors. In this way, we will certainly make it possible, through investment, if we do all projects from the NIP that are proposed and defined, to investors more investment, and resulting in a higher number of jobs and an increase in the standards of Serbian citizens. I sincerely believe in our strategic position, because while I was chairman of the Executive Board in Smederev, we were working on a strategy for the development of goods transport, with an aspect of the port in Smederev. They have tremendously high traffic potentials, as they pass through this country not only by road and rail, but also by water and other modes of transport. The transport of electricity, gas, liquid fuels, that's all we have to invest in, because it's the right way in the development of the economy, in the development of services and in the development of tourism, in the end, and other aspects of our country's economy. I sincerely believe that here, in the congregation home, very quickly and in a quality way, we will contribute to our discussions, firstly, the adoption of ratifications that have been standing for a long time, which are the ratification of the railway agreement, in collaboration with the EBRD, then the ratification of the COTIF. If I may remind you, in 1992 we stopped being a member of the COTIF, and in 1999 the contract was renewed and we should invest in our travel resources. There is also the Civil Aviation Act and the Law on Navigation. That way, we should make our country more interesting, firstly, for transport organisations and foreign investors. I honestly think that this budget, through this development concept and the part that is in the NIP, will allow in the second half of the year the preconditions that we are planning for next year, I would like to do it again 4.8 times more development funds, because that only leads Serbia to a country where the standard of citizens will be higher. I hope we have quality co-operation in this House and that we will adopt all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2933	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, then the MP of Nebojsa Zdravkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2934	Ministers and Mr. Chairman, just a few minutes. I'll talk about one of these topics, about sources. I also led one of those topics yesterday on the Finance Committee. So if someone is interested and looks at the stenogram to see what the MPs have been saying about the budget in the last few years, and I've been doing it for seven years, they'll notice that we're always talking about the same question. I wonder how rich the state is to give 50m euros each year. Namely, by privatising cementers, the painted "Jelen Do", those companies that exploit and fill natural water, the state has denied fees so-called. natural factor. I remind you that Mladjan Dinkic, while being governor of the National Bank, made a public statement that the state was damaged because of this 50m euros. Later, Mladjan Dinkic served as finance minister. So, last year and last year, I was talking to him on this subject. He also said it was a failure. I had a chance to say that to you yesterday, Mr. Minister. Now I'm interested in something. Is the state rich enough to donate half a billion euros in a few years, or are there other reasons here? I remind you that "The Jelen Do" was privatised by the company "Ource-cement", whose majority owner is one of the daughters of Croatian President Stjepan Mesic. I'm asking in public now, has anyone given a word that these privatisations won't charge for this, or is there a technical problem here? If it is technically, I can assure you, Mr. Minister, and all Serbian citizens, that all these MPs will agree unanimously to pass a law in a few days that will provide these 50m to 80m euros in the state register. I remind and address the MPs of the Vojvodina. Beikinska cementar is located in the area of Fruska Gora National Park. La Farž did not buy a majdan laporac, he only bought a rotational stove, and what else is on the ground has to be paid. The Law on concessions, the Law on National Parks and, of course, violates the fundamental principle that companies that do well are charged for what is an unrenewable natural resource and to be inserted into the national register. I just can't believe what this is about. I have to express my public suspicion that this is about one word that someone once gave someone, that this one number of years won't charge. Otherwise, there's no rational explanation for this. Please, when something from God and nature is given, such as water, such as laporac, such as limestone, it is impossible to use natural wealth in Serbia in this way without anyone doing anything to collect this money and return to ecology, to return to culture, education, health care, social needs etc. It's about time you told us openly - we can't do this and we gave our word that we wouldn't. Please, therefore, this is an attempt to contribute to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the state of Serbia, to move 50m or 80m euros where they are located. It doesn't take any effort, there's laws to be implemented. So, please, you can no longer explain this by technical or lack of proper law or anything else. Do it, you have SPS support for that law. The SPS MPs will vote in favour of any act you propose and which money should be taken from major world capitalists and put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is important, and I wanted to talk about this one more time in front of this Parliament, so that someone could not say that I do not, I do not know, act consistently; it is not in the nature of what I do. I still have one regret, I also told you yesterday, Mr. Minister. For the first time in this section, which refers to the funds identified for the water industry, there is no analysis. Therefore, MPs cannot know which large regional water systems the state will invest in. First, "Barje" and "Rzav". It says in the budget's explanation that the government will do it. That's not fair. I'm a Chachanin, there's a regional water system called Rzav for five municipalities. It has already invested 150m euros. I want to know if the state, which has the Minister from Casca, wants to end the Rzav system in the way they promised. The last thing, about the sources. You promised in a campaign for people who, as it is said, drive a car on Montenegrin plates, that you would allow the reregistering of these vehicles, though, some of you, some of you, are not. So 30m euros is in that registration. This problem or you have to solve it, so you say, "We're gonna take your money and these people are gonna drive a legal car," or they're gonna be banned from driving a car. This isn't normal anymore. They drive cars under other people's names. All of them are called what people in the White Field, Podgorica, Pllje, etc. are called. Besides being threatened by security, it doesn't make any sense that it works that way. So 30 - 35m euros is the potential of this re-registration. Either you do it, or you say this can't work like that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2935	The People's MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2936	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected ministers, today is an extremely important document on the 2007 income and expenditure plan. What is important for the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group is that the proposed amount of budget is intended for the ministries of economic and regional development, health, science, youth and sports, sufficient to implement the basic objectives for which the party G17 plus has been committed in the pre-election campaign, which are to implement incentive employment measures, increase export growth, develop tourism and regional development, improve the health system, provide jobs for scientific staff and return experts and implement a national youth strategy. This draft budget provided funds for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to implement the five most important measures. The first is to encourage direct greenfield investments. It is a measure initiated by the previous government, via the SIEPA, the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Foreign Investments, which provides between two and ten thousand euros per new job. So, for all those who open the factory, build a factory and employ over 50 workers, these free funds will be provided. The budget plans 30m euros, allowing for 15,000 new jobs. We all know that in Serbia the biggest problem is unemployment. A good example of this is the recent opening of the Henkel factory in Indjia, the company "Alena", which in Vranj creates a factory that will employ 3,000 workers and has provided six million grants. The second measure is loans to beginners without mortgages. We all know there are a lot of young people in Serbia who have good ideas, but do not have the means to realize them. We think we're gonna do it this way. It will be very favourable loans, with a five-year maturity, with a grace period of one year, practically, unambiguous, because the interest on an annual basis will be only 1%. For those real beginners, who have just finished school, there will be no mortgages, but it will be a manual stock on the equipment they bought on the basis of the loan. The third measure is microcredits for self-employment, which are also a measure from the previous term of office. These are very favourable loans for those who have an idea and who want to open up a small company that will employ at least four or five workers. Of course, significant funds have also been provided for the very favourable loans of the Development Fund, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for crafts. And, lastly, but not least, they are active employment measures, through the National Employment Service, which include self-employment programmes, training and retraining programmes, which are extremely important, because the structure of the unemployed at the Labour Bureau has proved not to meet the needs of our economy. What is extremely important is that the proposed draft budget continues with the programme to encourage employment and revive production. On this occasion, I would like to stress that the programme has also produced results in Kragujevac, the city from which I come, as a special programme for promoting employment and resuscitation of production in the town of Kragujevac and the municipalities of Bor and Vranje was introduced in 2005. Also, businesses in the town of Kragujevac withdrew over a billion and 500 million dinars from the Development Fund during 2005 and 2006, allowing for the employment of more workers. The G17 Plus party believes the biggest problem currently in Serbia, as I said, which may, in particular, be expressed in Kragujevac, is high unemployment. We're not sure that, through all these measures that I've just listed, we're going to be able to realize our basic pre-election promise, which is to cut unemployment in the next five years. This budget only provides for undeveloped areas of over 100m euros, which is quite enough for projects to build new industrial zones, incubator centres and local municipal infrastructure projects, which are extremely important for all local self-government. To me, as a national MP from Kragujevac, it is extremely important to continue to launch projects, which began during the mandate of the previous government, which is the continuation of the industrial zone "Service 2" in Kragujevac, for which 3,200,000 euros were allocated from the National Investment Plan. We believe that this will make us much more attractive to potential investors and will allow for the creation of new jobs in Kragujevac. Also, the construction of the Kragujevac highway - Batocina and the merger of Kragujevac with Corridor 10 continues, which will allow for a better strategic position of the city. Then, the building of the Faculty of Art and Philology will be built, as students are now studying in rented rooms, and there are over 2,000 students currently attending the Art and Philology Faculty. This will provide better conditions for both teaching and research. A new building of the Institute of Public Health and Hospitals of Preschool and School Dispanser will be built, for which threem euros have been allocated from the National Investment Plan. This will ensure that the quality of services and working conditions is at European level. There will also be an incubator center for encouraging entrepreneurship in Kragujevac. The G17 Plus party is also satisfied with the funding defined by the Ministry of Science, because it is approximately 20% higher than last year's budget, allowing the Ministry of Science to support the employment of scientific staff and work on the return of experts from abroad. So, the Ministry of Science will continue to scholarship science, but, most importantly, young experts can find employment in Serbia. I think it's past the time when the best students and experts left Serbia. Now we want not only the best to stay in Serbia, but to provide conditions for the return of our most capable and most professional people from abroad. One way to get the experts back into the country is to participate in projects that will be launched and implemented right here, with us. Also, the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development envisions 200 million dinars for the implementation of the project "From Innovation to Complete Product". This is considered by the G17 Plus party to be extremely significant, as we will thus ensure that best innovations become market-oriented products. A few days ago, the Serbian states signed an agreement on joining the European Union's science and research programme and thus our country entered European integration for the first time, which is extremely important. This has enabled our experts, our professors and students to participate in European Union scientific research projects, equal to those of the European Union, which we have not had until now. That's been holding us back a lot in our work. Serbian scientific institutions thus became equal in competition for projects and funds under the agreement "FP7's Seventh Framework Research Programme". For our researchers, this is valuable, because it is an incentive for development and it gives us the opportunity to bring good projects of European funds to Serbia. The source of funds, experiences and knowledge will be an important incentive for scientific research in Serbia, which is very important. Finally, as regards the proposed addition of the Tax System and Administration Act, I would like to remind myself that the party G17 plus also campaigned to reduce the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, which is also possible. Also, the G17 Plus party approves a reduction in value added tax for IT equipment, as we proposed in the campaign to enable the purchase of computers, internet connections and printers with certain state aid. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that Serbia is currently starting in Europe by the number of computers per capita. We believe that this will allow many more citizens to get a computer and internet connection, which will create the necessary conditions to raise the level of information culture, which is a necessary condition for our faster progress towards Europe. The G17 plus party believes the draft budget proposed is good and needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2937	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2938	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will mainly focus on Section 15 on the part relating to the planned budget for the area of agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia, above all, because the Serbian Radical Party considers agricultural production to be one of the most significant, if not the most significant economic branch in the Republic. The proposal for a budget given for the area of agriculture is absolutely unsatisfactory and believes that the planned funds will not significantly improve agricultural production this year. That is, unfortunately, almost the only economic resource that has achieved a certain foreign surplus during the past year, as well as the previous one. So we have to admit that the incentive measures that have been carried out over the past years have achieved some positive shifts and some production levels have been raised; we have become more competitive on the external trade plan and on the market. If agricultural policy were even more serious and had a fairer attitude towards agricultural producers, our agricultural production would certainly have been at the level at which it was in some time, when we were and how receptive we were on the world market and significant foreign exchange assets came about from the export of agricultural products. Some parties spoke of it during pre-election activities for parliamentary elections, above all, I think of the Democratic Party, in several places and on several occasions. From the mouth of the president of the state and the president of the party, the former vice president, the current candidate for Prime Minister, and other leaders, data have been provided that the DS will advocate to increase the agrarian budget and provide farmers with a minimum of 100 euros per processed area of the country and about 80 euros, if I remember correctly, 80 or 90 euros of stimulation per drowned beef. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, since the minister is from your party, because you have a majority in the government, is an amazing promise made through this budget you don't keep. I'm surprised why none of you speak, except for Mr Nikolic, who, and he's from the DSS, tried to give a positive opinion on the agrarian budget. The rest of you remain silent, and it is symptomatic that there is no Dušana either, the agriculture minister showed up briefly today, and you need to explain where these funds are in such a concise agrarian budget that you will satisfy your voters, who you have promised these stimulations, means 100 euros per hectare of arable land and that money for drowned cattle. It's just amazing that in the beginning you've calculated how many processed hectares there are in this country, and they're somewhere at about four million and 200 thousand; they're owned somewhere around 3.5 million hectares, and owned by the state and some agricultural combinations that still exist -- somewhere between 500 and 600 thousand hectares. Under the condition, and this condition is certainly not met, if all these holdings were registered, you would only need over 400m euros on that basis. It's simply impossible to secure in the agricultural budget. To start with the assumption that only half of these agricultural holdings are registered, means it's about two million hectares of the country, it's about 200m euros. You can't even see it in a budget this conceived, and you can't settle it. The truth works, and for citizens and for agricultural producers, I will present here information on the heights of the agrarian budget and the individual items. In these past four years, as you in power, above all, at the time of the former Kostunica government, and now together with you from the DS, I have used the materials and data we discussed in the Assembly, the data that I have received officially from the Ministry of Agriculture as president of the Agriculture Committee, as well as other members of the Agriculture Committee. In 2004, the agricultural budget was 14 billion 719 million, in 2005 -- 18 billion 983 million, in 2006 -- 23 billion 57 million. The budget that she made, so-called. The technical government included an agricultural budget of 26 billion 869 million, which was added by a billion and 87 million under the National Investment Programme. So that budget that the former Kostunica government gave had an agrarian budget of 27 billion 957 million, and now you're giving us a new budget of 26 billion and 95 million. Once again to deny what Mr. Nikolic said. The agrarian budget given by the government of President Kostunica, as a technical government, had almost a billion and 900 million more than what you are giving, especially those in these 26 billion and 95 million and the National Investment Programme's funding, amounting to a billion and 380 million. What are the most important items of this budget? Of course, what is run in economic classification 451, which is subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. This subsidises the production and productivity increase in agriculture, then measures to improve the village, measures and actions in agriculture and professional agricultural services. The budgets in previous years, on this basis, had: in 2004 - 12 billion 489 million, in 2005 - nine billion 433 million, in 2006 - 10 billion and 300 million. The government planned a budget for these 12 billion and 550 million purposes. As for the measure to improve the village, i.e. to say first about production subsidies and productivity increases, which are among the most significant. They subsidize milk premiums, then regress for breeding cattle, regression of fertilisers and fuel. There are also subsidies from industrial plants, and we know that the subsidized production of tobacco, oily pumpkins, oily turnips and hops, according to the assessment of the previous and these governments, the most significant industrial plants, plant cultures. Subsidized, or subsidized, grain storage, first of all, wheat. For these purposes, 11 billion and 300 million are planned, and in this amount, compared to the previous one, is a more significant increase. However, there are also a billion dinars that are planned for some kind of grain purchase and that the budget is not based on what is specifically planned to buy. As regards the measure of improving the village, which includes support for rural development, our villages are to some extent devastated, so they must be invested and this country must invest larger funds to rebuild and revitalise the village. Then, support so-called. Non-communicative landowners, so the landowners, who are the old ladies, who can't now process the land. There is also an improvement in livestock, as well as support for the development and promotion of organic production of agriculture, which is also important because we have significant resources. Also, the introduction and certification of the quality system, because without certification of the quality system in agriculture, we can hardly be competitive on the world market, and certainly raising multi-annual plantings. This draft budget is not clearly defined how much it is allocated for these purposes. In 2006, it was clear that it was three billion 352 million dinars. Compared to the planned funds, we think it's not enough to do as much as it was done at the level last year. Given the time I have at my disposal, respecting my colleagues, what I still want to pay attention to, which I think is very important, refers to precisely those incentives that have been given through short-term or long-term lending. Short-term loans have been paid for a year, with interest of 6%, with 5% interest, and 1% are fees that banks take. Long-term loans have been granted for five years, first of all, for the purchase of machinery, for the purchase of a system for watering plastics and greenhouses, for the purchase of breeding cattle. And yet, as the fifth element in funding, it doesn't matter, I'll remember. All in all, over the past years, significant funds have been allocated for these purposes. These are budget funds, and to this day we MPs and the public have no information as to how these funds have been realised. So, are those funds, which are given as incentive, especially this long-term, purposely used, whether they are returned and, ultimately, who are at their disposal. These funds were only given to certain business banks. I'll just count some. The largest amounts of short-term loans were provided by the National Savings Bank. In 2004, it was 549 million dinars, in 2005 - 496 million. Then, the Commercial Bank, in 2004, -118 million, in 2005 - 424 million, and so on. As far as long-term loans are concerned, the National Savings Bank is also leading by given resources. In 2004, it was 323 million, in 2005 - 574 million. Overall, in 2004, four billion 397 million were distributed based on agricultural lending funds; as short-term loans -- a billion and 727 million, as long-term loans -- two billion 669 million. In 2005, three billion 790 million were distributed, as a short-term -- a billion 459 million, as long-term -- two billion 232 million. Five billion and 508 million were distributed in 2006. Of that, as a short-term -- a billion 956 million, as long-term -- three billion 434 million. To this day, I would like your attention, the MPs, and our public, the short-term loans that they gave to the middle of this year were to be returned to the state budget of four billion 165 million 337 thousand dinars. Long-term loans, taking into account the grace period, have divided eight billion 336 million, have so far been given back two billion 348 million. A total of long-term and short-term funds should have been returned to the state so far, which would mean new incentives for lending agricultural production, six billion 513 million 565 thousand dinars. Please, it's an extremely large asset. Translated into euro, it is almost 80m euros. I'm looking for an explanation and I'm taking the opportunity to ask it now as a parliamentary question for the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, i.e. to let us know how much has been recovered from the total funds so far, so how many short-term, how many long-term? Then, where are these funds registered and who has these resources, because the Committee on Agriculture asked the Ministry of Agriculture on three occasions for that information and failed to obtain it? And I'm also asking that the D.A.'s office be interested in these facts that I've put out and check where these funds are, because they've been returned, and they've been given directly from the budget, with the short-term being paid in full, and of the long-term ones, 90% are budget funds, and 10% are just business banks, the agrarian budget wouldn't now be 26 billion dinars, but it could be at least 32 billion dinars, and so, Mr. Democrats, and the rest of you, could finance some more important things you've promised the citizens. As a matter of fact, citizens don't know where the funds are from the budget, which should have been used on purpose, and neither do we, as MPs, and I think we should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2939	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has the word, and let the Messenger Ivan Andric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2940	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will begin with one unnecessary sentence, which is that the Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will support the budget and vote for it. I said that sentence, for the simple reason, that our media, our public, actually, don't understand the basic nature of the game around the budget. Of course, most in the assembly support the budget and, of course, the opposition in the assembly votes against the budget. It has, since the introduction of a multi-party parliamentary system in the world, the fact is, almost, without exception. I say, almost without exception. The only exception is when a war budget is voted in some wartime conditions. I have to say, I agree with that finding, which is that this budget is being carried out in the weather, brought in June of the current year. I don't agree, of course, with them or them blaming themselves for it. Simply, given the circumstances, at a time when this House was to discuss this budget, this is November of last year, we disbanded the Assembly and called the elections. A good part of what I'm going to say here today, in fact, is addressed to all of us and Mr. Secretary, more from the point of view that we should start thinking about the new budget for next year from the beginning of September. Then the MPs, or the Assembly, for their part, and the Government, for their part, including the Minister of Finance and all other ministers, will be able to, before the text of the budget is reached, in one communication with each other, establish a vision of the budget. For example, the Education Committee has already agreed today in principle that it will try to for the next budget, in communication with the Ministry of Education, and so probably all other committees, in communication with the relevant ministries, to make their contribution. One more thing I'd say. I think this budget has its own budget deficit and I think Mr. Minister explained quite precisely that it is a very reasonable deficit. The public works, you should say that what the budget can't have, it's a surplus. I think this deficit, especially under the circumstances, is going to say what the circumstances are, which we have, are even very reasonable. The circumstances are two and the consequences are two major robberies made in the past. One is when, in the 1970s, in Broz's time, we spent pension funds, and since that time, we started paying our pensions out of liquid assets, which is a complete nonsension and a little bit of what you're going to find, a serious country, where that is, and that's a huge amount of money, and the other is that one good part, it seems to me that Mr. Minister said 32% of our debt, in fact, was robbed of the currency savings on various grounds. So I don't think that the deficit is some lack of budget, moreover, I believe that, given how things are going, and I don't think I'm too optimistic when I say, even in the fall, we're going to come up with some extra resources that will allow some things to happen in some, possibly, rebalancing and repairing. The further I speak, in fact, the more I speak because of the potential budget rebalance and because we are about to make a budget for 2008. I'd like to say some of my global remarks that I have on this budget. First of all, I think that those areas that have been transferred from the federal level, that is, the level of the state community, first of all, I mean the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so diplomatic and consular representations, to the military, and you'll be amazed at this assembly, by intensity, are underestimated in a certain way and will be very quickly shown. Of course, in these areas, especially in the military and the MIP, there is plenty of room for one legal reorganisation, and there are probably some channels that are unnecessarily draining funds, but for some serious jobs, both in one sphere and in another, I think there is no money missing. You know, the trouble is, if we're talking, let's start in a row, if we're talking about the Foreign Ministry, he's got a budget for a little less than 1% of this budget. Unfortunately, it has been underestimated for various reasons. The biggest reason is that many parts of both the former SFRY and the former SRJ have worked all the time to completely destroy the sphere, because they wanted to make their own countries. Then, by some inert, we came to a state that our diplomatic-consular representations work under very poor conditions. It is clear to all of us, I guess, that in the coming period, if we think about solving a number of our problems and difficulties, first of all, I mean the status of Kosovo and Metohija, we need to have a serious diplomatic offensive, we need to strengthen these diplomatic representations (this work, right now to be clear, I am not satisfied at all), and all of this requires money. Five and a half billion, as far as it's planned for something like that, is not enough. I assure you that the salaries of people in diplomatic representations are currently below any possible level, even in some countries at social aid levels. I'm asking the minister to record this, so you'll keep in mind when you're making the budget next time. The other thing is the Army. Here, however, it was thought that the 10% budgets allocated to the military were too large. I don't think so, I think it's too small. Let's start with the pay. Salaries are projected at 15 billion dinars a year. When it's shared with the number of active soldiers and carried out the math, I did it, and it comes out that the average military person gets a salary of 400 euros a month. In doing so, they will confirm it here, there are those who know it better than I do in this House, former active officers, the structure and the same army are completely wrong. Instead of a natural pyramid, we have a reverse pyramid, so you have the smallest number of officers, the smaller number of officers and the lower officers, and they should be the most, compared to the high officers. When you take all this into account, it turns out that we're paying very little for our army. Secondly, no one here wants to fight, but you'd best stop the possibility of war threats if you have a good army. Therefore, I think that, of course, with the necessary reorganisation of that army, even, perhaps it should not be given in an absolute amount of some larger means, but can be more rationally used, above all, on the salaries of professional soldiers and then on arms. Our weapons, it's not controversial, it's long gone and it would be worth it, it can't, of course, overnight, but some real plan, in future time, fix it. The third thing applies to this congregation. For this assembly, 3 billion and 600 million dinars are foreseen, but when you disintegrate the fog, billions and 600 million actually cost the choices that have already been made, so this assembly, for its full work this year, has received two billion dinars. Since I was in one period president of the National Assembly, I sign you that this is absolutely insufficient, because this assembly has been given, in practice, twice the function it had until the formation of an independent state of Serbia. It's not quite enough. Let me remind you, we have very large obligations in international relations, we are members of nine European and world congregations. If anyone thinks it's unnecessary, they're wrong. Our MPs must go to these congregations and must represent the attitudes of both these congregations and these states. Then, we'll have a weekly here, we'll have to host at least one foreign delegation, and that's necessary. We're going to have to visit other congregations, and that's necessary and, of course, we're going to have to work here, which is what we've been meaning to do so far. So I think these three areas, then I'm going to mention the fourth, not to delay the need for a certain restructuring within these areas, no doubt deserve more serious attention, if not in this, then in the next budget, of course. The last area I want to mention is education. For education, we stand out almost as much as for the Army, I think the difference is two or three billion. It's an area that needs to be invested in and it's also an area that needs to be transformed. I think this Board of Education will try to make a contribution, but I'm not sure how money is spent in education is good. On the one hand, you have people who work and who are very little paid, and, on the other hand, you have, possibly, some spills that are also unnecessary. In the end, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to make a note of that, too, and I'll end up with three smaller, but not more irrelevant things. He mentioned it yesterday, Mr. Vasiljevic. We owe funds to military people with disabilities, and the last thing a country can do is owe funds to military people with disabilities, so they're not billions of dollars. It is a sum that should not be problematic for a serious state, and not only for human fates, it is also about the attitude that this country will clearly say, about the attitude towards people who are not of their own free will, but by warning for this country, become disabled. The other thing I'd like to see isolated is this. We've been through a lot of wars in the last decade. Various, first of all, I mean professional soldiers, unfortunately in those wars they died and left behind children, widows, I assure you, in a very difficult state. It takes a really minimal amount of money to get this country to pass one law to the children of those who are, there's that ugly term, the fallen fighter, so that's going to provide them with funding, scholarships as they go to school. I had a chance to be in one of our elite units that lost 24 of its members in the 1990s wars. There are some sixteen children left, some of whom have not even seen their fathers, who live, literally, in misery and on the edge of hunger, not to mention the possibilities for their education. This is not about too many children, but it should be singled out as a special item, not as an item within the Ministry of Finance, or I don't know where, but as a special item, that the state in such situations is ready to react. About the wars of the 1990s, I mean what I think, that's another thing, but this country has to provide families of people who have died, first of all, children, with some means, and it really doesn't take a lot of money. All it takes is a little goodwill. Finally, there's in the department for the finance department a part that refers to talents. The talent needs, according to this draft budget, to get 161 million, or, to translate, about two million euros. If we only have 2,000 talents, that's 1,000 euros per year by talent, so about 80 euros a month. First, I say we have a lot more talented children to study. I'm going to do a dipression. You know, when Serbia executed wars in the second half of the 19th century and was at the bottom, where we also found ourselves at the end of this century, one of the serious ways to get out of that crisis was for a large number of our children to go to the white world to school and go back. This isn't just about paying for school, it's about creating conditions for a young man's army, who, for all sorts of reasons, had to go out in those unfortunate years, who ended up there in the proper colleges, to come back here. So, my proposal is to, first of all, isolate, past any ministry, as a special category, whether it will make some service or something special, but as a special category, to form that category, to single out a slightly larger funding for the scholarship of talented children, youth, students. It doesn't cost much, we have those and, after all, it's a win, believe me, for this country not a hundred times a thousand times. I'm asking Mr. Secretary to understand this in his best interest. Most of this will be able to be used only in the next budget, and I am convinced that this assembly will start in committees at the beginning of September, but in the beginning of September, the debate on that, before the budget is even made, before the ministries give some of their visions of the future budget, our committees, in communication with the relevant ministries, simply, give some suggestions, some suggestions on how some things should be changed. You saw that I didn't mention the sectors of this party or that party; I don't care which party holds which sector, whether I personally like or don't like the minister, I spoke exclusively from one long-term aspect of the country's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2941	I'm setting a lunch break. After the break, the word is Milena Stankovic. I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2942	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. The People's MP Milena Stankovic came forward and then the MP Vidoje Jovanovic. Milena insisted that I say - a folk letter. Here you go, Milena.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2943	Yes, I insisted that you say that I am a National MP, and yet you said that I was a National MP. Are we together? We didn't. All right, take it easy. Today, in fact, I wanted to talk about how much of the budget we are discussing today does not respect the principle of gender equality, and that is why, Mr. Albianic, I told you to announce me as a Parliament of People. I believe that most MPs will agree with this, belonging to the women of Serbia, unfortunately, even though we live in the 21st century, means constant subordination in all spheres of life. The consequences of this and such a woman's position in our society are not only borne by women, although they are those who are directly affected, but also by children and, in particular, men. What I would like to point out is that there is no prosperous society if one half of its potential is untapped and there is no healthy society if both sexes, and now such a situation is in our society, have no equal opportunity for health care. There is no enlightened society unless both sexes have equal opportunities for education. Unfortunately, the situation is that at this point women do not have equal opportunities as men to education. The possibility of a woman finding herself in some management position in our society, as you know, is not great. The illustration of this is the fact that there are 250 MPs in this House, and out of that 50 MPs, we have 22 ministries, and we only have four ministers. When they find themselves in a position to make important decisions, when they find themselves in a position to influence the position of women with their decisions, women very often initiate projects aimed at improving the position of women. Unfortunately, whatever they're up to, it turns out there's no money for those ideas and for their realization. This is because there are no items in the budget to support such projects. So today I'm talking about this birth sensitization of the budget, which is not something I invented, it's a liquid of modern economy. This is exactly what the whole series of conventions are talking about, and a whole series of conventions have defined mechanisms to determine how women's rights are compromised and how women's rights, through proper budgeting, can be protected. Our budget is gender neutral, I guess, not because our economists, our politicians are not informed about how important it is to take care of women's rights, but simply because they didn't care and because they didn't care about women's rights. That's why I'm here to warn them, to tell them that we need to seriously consider the position of women in this society. What would contribute to the empowerment of a woman in our society, in general, is, above all, the economic empowerment of a woman. Economic empowerment of women in our society requires money, it is necessary to employ women, it is necessary to create programs to educate women, so that they can easily reach employment. Moreover, what is very important, and what in our society is taboo, which is more often, and for this speaker, should be spoken of, is violence against women. Violence against women is a topic that is mentioned only in campaigns, in order to easily collect political points, and in fact, it's something we meet every day, it's a problem we have every day. It is the state that should take care of, above all, through education, but also through the establishment of "safe women's houses" which, for the time being, are founded only by NGOs. In addition, women's health is a very important topic, which is a little bit spoken of and I can see that there was no hearing in this budget either. In fact, pregnancy is only 65% of the full amount of personal income, which is for women who maintain pregnancy, which is, of course, the risk of pregnancy as soon as there is a need for their maintenance, not enough for normal life and for normal development and pregnancy, as well as for the survival of the pregnant family. Besides, I don't know if you know it, it's just as important, I'd like you to listen to me, Serbia is the first country in the number of women suffering from uterus cancer. It's a disease that can be treated. It is a disease that is progressing slowly, but precisely because of lack of education, for reasons of insufficient prevention, we have the highest mortality in Europe. So, on the 100,000 inhabitants of Serbia, 27 women die, precisely from this disease. The vaccine against this disease was found and it costs $120. I think that this budget should have respected that moment and that there should have been an item on the vaccination of girls up to 26 years in order to protect against this disease, if not completely, and at least partially, or, at least, to create an education plan that would inform parents of a solution and that there is a cure. This is now a very broad topic. I could talk about her for a long time. Time is running out, and I respect the other speakers. I really think that when the next budget is set up, it has to be taken into account. I resent that there was no public debate, which was not an opportunity for the professional public to react, which was not an opportunity for our expert teams of lawyers and economists to also help the creators of this budget and to make one good, gender-sensible, budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2944	So, in accordance with my tolerance, I let you know that, although the time of the parliamentary group has been spent, extend your debate a little bit. I really want to respect you, and that's why I said what you wanted me to say. It is necessary to coordinate and standardise the Serbian language so that we can use it, not to guess which terms we can say in this way, which way. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2945	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 88. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. As MPs, we can have understanding and understanding for Mr Cvetkovic who has been here defending the budget for two days and for his, I believe, business is justifiable late of 15 minutes. But don't, Mr. Chairman, humiliate yourself as much as the chairman and us as the MPs. The budget is the most important law in parliament and it is truly unserious to expect us to discuss the budget with ourselves, and that is what has been happening to us in the past 15 minutes. If there are no ministers here, then you must get an answer to the question of when the ministers will appear, and only after that will the debate begin. We are talking about such serious issues, especially the subject discussed by MP Stankovic from our parliamentary group, ourselves. I hope that ministers will have time for consultations to get an adequate answer to the questions raised in the previous discussion. As far as evolution is concerned in Serbian, if a woman can be a housewife, a tailor, a cook, then let her be a minister, and a president, and a Member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2946	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I must inform you that I was faster than the minister only in getting down the stairs faster and starting the session, and the minister is present. Mr. Secretary of Finance is here and monitoring the work of the Assembly. National MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Aleksandar Vukic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly interrupt this debate on the budget, because I would like to, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, using the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, to ask the Republic Public Prosecutor, because MPs have the right to do so, information about what the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Special Prosecutor's Office, has done or what it intends to do about an interview that Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic gave yesterday to the daily newspaper, or allegations made in the interview, which speaks of the prevention of certain authorities after 2001 with the mafia. I think the D.A.'s got to give this body, this home, the answer. Let the D.A. say none of these allegations are true. Let him say-- that's exactly what it is. Let him say it's all true, and then he'll have to file charges, but he has to say something. It is impossible for the prosecution to remain silent and ignore everything Mr. Mihajlovic has made in this interview, as it seriously challenges many claims, attitudes that have become part of Serbia's public, official history since 2000. Serbia must know whether everything that happened after October 5th was done in accordance with the law or not, who worked, who did not, who was on behalf of the state doing state affairs and who was in private business, who was a state friend and who was the enemy. The enemy knows, it was us socialists and fellow radicals, we were officially enemies of the state, but it's good to hear who they were. We'd do well to hear who influenced the prosecution's work in connection with the prosecution's individual charges, who influenced the prosecution's work by never seeing the light of day, which has been in the prosecution's drawers for several years, on different levels. We would do well to know, as it is mentioned in this interview, who influenced the district attorney to let Spasojevic and other members of that criminal group be released from prison. So much is said by the former interior minister in this interview that it would be a shame for the Serbian judiciary to have the prosecution ignore this request by the SPS Parliamentary Group and not to say what it did and what it did, because I think we owe that truth to everyone in Serbia. It's interesting to keep quiet about it, as if there was one conspiracy of silence, as if there was no willingness to open any serious subject related to the conflict between crime and the state, from that time on and on, seriously run, let alone investigate, as if many people were afraid that Pandora's box would be opened. There's no reason for that, if we're a legal state, and everyone says we are and everyone's full of the mouth of the rule of law. Then there is no reason to ignore this request by the SPS Parliamentary Group to tell us, MPs, what is true and what is not and what is not the state's intention in relation to what is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2948	We'll pass on your question, Mr. Beard. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing that the debate on the law on the budget, as the most important law to be adopted, which, in line with its power and importance, stands right behind the Constitution as the highest legal act of a country, certainly, the most significant law to be passed on an annual basis, is not attended by anyone but one minister. As far as I know, they were fighting in the Serbian government, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-three ministers, fighting for days who would take more money for their portfolio. Finally, one minister came to represent the budget; no Prime Minister either, no other ministers. That's not a good message, because that shows up -- we'll be on our boards in the government, we'll be inside our parties, so DSS, DSS and G17, agreeing on how to distribute the money, how much it gets, who needs what it takes, and then it doesn't matter what the National Assembly says, and we won't accept their amendments. Because if they didn't sit while the debate was in principle, let's hear what people think about certain amendments, would it be good if some of these amendments were accepted or not, whether it would be good to increase the support of our people in Kosovo and Metohija or if someone thought it should be reduced, whether it would be necessary to increase or reduce the expenditures for our army, depending on what anyone thinks in the National Assembly and how it explains it. But it doesn't interest anyone in power. I didn't mean to say it when I was talking, I don't want to abuse it, but at this point a man here, unknown to me, talks all the time, tries, I guess, to distract me or don't know what. I'd like to know who this is, but in any case, it's not right for a MP to, when he comes out for a pay phone, anyone to be distracted in that way. I don't agree with Mr. Jovanovic about that -- if we have the word MP, we can have the word right now -- a MP, or we have a journalist, so a journalist, so I don't know what. It's just not like that. I'll let you know that in many languages, especially of Slovenian origin, you have similar words; somewhere there is a possibility of continuing to make a difference between male and female, and somewhere there is no such possibility. So, let's say, in Russian, you have words -- "student" and "teacher" who have a follow-up -- "student" and "teacher," but you don't have a follow-up on words -- agronomics, architect, wizard, or I don't know what. That way, you can't even find a sequel in Serbian. How the female generation shall be of the word, the doer of duty; it shall be a doer or whatever. Or the word "horse" to be "horse" or "horse". Those words already have...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2950	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2951	Wait, Mr. Albianic, I have a lecture for you about that...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2952	I'm not sure you're an expert on Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2953	Yes, I am very professional, as you can see, for both Russian and Serbian, and for English, for you -- and for French and German, to inform you immediately. As you can see, I know it all well. You do not use the verb "respect", since it does not mean anything in Serbian. I would ask you to take care of it, because the citizens of Serbia listen to you. I'll go back to what's much more important than this, and I said this because not every word, by continuing "a," can become a female. We have the word "envoy" in Serbian and has a completely different meaning than the MPs of the woman. That you rarely use that word, because, I don't know, you learned to use the word "envoy" only when it comes to writing or speaking to the patriarch Paul or someone else, that's another. There's another political reason. The word "envoy" cannot mean an MP who is a woman, or a lady, however you wish, since it does not mean it in Serbian. As there can be no "executor" or anything else. I'm out, Mr. Albianic, because of one very important thing, or a few important things that this country doesn't care about, and that's why it would be good if the Prime Minister were here and the other ministers were here. I don't know if you noticed, Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, Haris Silajdzic and the neighbours requested not only a revision of the Dayton Agreement, but an open abolition of Republika Srpska. With your friends' daily efforts, whether Serbian friends should consider citizens, so Javier Solana from the European Union and Olli Rehn from the European Union and representatives of the United States, led by their President George Bush, who insist...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2954	Mr. Wolfie, on what basis did you even answer? You've opened countless topics now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2955	Yes, Mr. Albianic, I've opened a lot of topics and it's interesting that you haven't found yourself in any subject, that none of them are interesting to you. I opened the one to teach you something, Mr. Albianic, and I'm not sure I did, because it's not going so easy, and I'm saying this second because of the Serbian citizens and the necessity for Serbia to react, Mr. Albianic. I, unlike you, am also interested in Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija and I am interested in what will be the response of the Serbian state. There is no answer and no one in this room today who can say anything about it. There is no Prime Minister to tell us today - they will not be able to lift Republika Srpska, there is no one today to tell us, so where is the report on Kosovo and Metohija more. We're adopting the budget today and what should we talk to Mr. Cvetkovic about?- I'm sorry. It will be discussed by Jorvanka Tabakovic and three other MPs, whether it is balanced enough, whether there is enough on the income and distribution side, whether everything is well done or not. We want to talk about key issues for Serbia, and who should we talk to? With you, Mr. Albianic? We can hardly do that. I respect you very much, but here they have to be representatives of the government and we need to talk to them about it. There's a big crisis in the country. In this country, prosecutors must react to various charges of various murders, but in this country, above all, care must be taken about how to preserve its territorial integrity and how to preserve the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and we do not discuss it for days. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Albianic, and thank you for understanding all about the non-existent verb "respect", I reckon we will understand each other well in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2956	Mr. Vukicu, I am interested in both Kosovo and Republika Srpska, and as far as Serbian is concerned, we will hire an expert with the Serbian language department at the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade, or in another, even from Novi Sad. As for the order of speakers, Cedomir Jovanovic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2957	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's never bad to hear something smart, and I'm always ready to learn something new. I think this topic is open in the interim debate, but it is also a language for Parliament to pay attention to. The language evolves, the homonomials exist in every language, and in ours, and that, often effective, comparisons that you serve, Mr. Vukic, still cannot push aside the need to further develop our language and to comply with the needs of citizens in Serbia. The 'Employer' and 'Employer' of Patriarch Paul, the homonomies and the names of the female, can be at the same time. So let's work together to follow the needs of the work of our society. No one takes away the right, of course, to introduce himself to someone as an MP, but I think we should have heard of that freedom, which is so present in our society. We are prepared to work, of course, not in the context of this debate, but in the places where it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2958	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Biljana the Prince, and the messenger of the people of Gordan Rajkov shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2959	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the Kingdom, a city today numbering over 170 thousand inhabitants, a city that has received a large number of refugees and displaced persons in its wing in recent years, and now has, as one of the key problems, the problem of unemployment. For these reasons, it is commendable and encouraging that the planned funding for the implementation of social security rights in the 2007 budget has increased compared to the 2006 budget. The fact is that the planned amount of 24626.300,000, which is not negligible, accounts for 89.90 per cent of the planned current expenditures of the National Service for 2007, namely: 14.966,000.090 - benefits for unemployment cases, temporary fees for employees from Kosovo and Metohija, one-time pay for self-employment, additional education and training programmes, employment fairs, current job search, projects - severance to work, as well as 1,750.300,000 - for the development of entrepreneurship and employment programmes, self-employment programmes, regional programmes and new employment, which speaks of another step of the Serbian government to address the problem of social policy. Given that the percentage of the unemployed in the European Union is 7.6 per cent and that in developed economies more than 90 per cent of the companies originate in the small and medium-sized enterprises, they form the main focus of the temporary growth of these systems, and that the percentage of 21.6% of the unemployed in Serbia is much higher, we must point to the following. It should be borne in mind that the founders of entrepreneurial activities, as well as the founders of small and medium-sized enterprises, are mainly unemployed persons and persons without initial capital, who in this way want to resolve the issue of their existence and the existence of their families. In doing so, they want to legalize, but if they pay taxes to the state, they get into a situation very quickly that, instead of good and successful businessmen, they become over-indebted and on the edge of existence. If we want to solve this problem, we need to increase the amount of individual grants to the unemployed, based on the self-employment programme. The amount so far was small and was not enough to start carrying out economic activity. It is also necessary to increase the number of "micro" and "start ap" credits, to grant loans to mortgage-free beginners, to simplify procedures in banks to grant loans to beginners, to grant loans without mortgages and loans with a longer period of 12 months and to reduce interest rates. I believe that these measures would achieve a greater number of employees, and thus a greater number of taxpayers, so these entrepreneurs and founders of small and medium-sized enterprises would become the main drivers of economic development, as is the case in the world. I therefore welcome this move by the Government to increase the budget's planned budget for 2007 to address the social security problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2960	The word of the people is the messenger of Gordan Rajkov. Let the messenger of the people be prepared, Vidoje Jovanovic. Also, I'm taking the opportunity to inform you of the next one. Due to the need for effective work of the Assembly, we will continue today's work after 18 hours, until the principle debate on starting agendas in a united search.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2961	Dear Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, in my first address to this honored home, I would like to express my satisfaction that finally one person with a difficult disability would have the chance to participate equally in the work of the highest legislative body in the country. Of course, it does not diminish, but only increases my fears about the challenges that are clearly waiting for me in this business, but I hope that I am the first owner to announce spring, and that in the next term more people with disabilities will have this opportunity. I volunteered to say something about the position of people with disabilities in Serbia and to point to some good and perhaps not so good for this budget. The poverty of people with disabilities is known to be three times greater than in the rest of the population. For this, many reasons are, above all, insufficient education, inaccessible environments, inaccessible transport, prejudices that exist in society. It is clear that this person, in almost 90% of cases, depends on social transfers, and only 13% of people with disabilities in Serbia are employed. Of these 13%, 10% works in the NGO sector and 3% in other sectors in society. It is therefore very important that there are specific programmes and positive measures to help improve the employment of people with disabilities and, of course, a good information system, because many of them do not know enough about these programmes. It is good that our country has changed its attitude towards people with disabilities in recent years and has taken such positive measures as, for example, tax policy measures last year, which made it easier for employers to employ people with disabilities. They have given certain, initial results. It would be very important for such tendencies to continue this year. In line with its programme definitions, partyG 17 plus will continue to, in areas where it has taken responsibility, continue to work on creating conditions for equating the position of persons with disabilities. In the area of employment, which is obviously one of the most significant, it is good that the budget foresees incentive measures in the employment of people with disabilities, where significant funds, amounting to 402 million, will continue to be allocated to refund incomes in enterprises that employ people with disabilities, and over 300 million to equip them and improve working conditions. Also, there are about 530 million dinars in the training program. The special line will be opened for the retraining and training of disabled persons. This is very important, because last year, out of 117 people with disabilities employed through the National Employment Service, over 50% of them had only primary education or unfinished high school. Of these 117 people, only two people have had higher education and are employed in Belgrade. It is therefore unusual for these programmes to exist, to train these people further and to learn how to make small business plans, to open up the possibility of self-employment of people with disabilities and exit to the open market. This should be our tendency, not the constant protected conditions of life and work. Therefore, employment of people with disabilities cannot only be viewed as an economic component, but must also have its social part. It is good that, at least it says so, the Ministry of Sport and Youth will focus on funding special programmes for mass sports and sports of disabled people, but it is obvious, although disability as a phenomenon must be seen through all areas of society, so that it is the responsibility and of all ministries, that some of these ministries represent the backbone of this policy, such as those in the fields of education, employment, economy, health and social policy. As far as this budget is concerned, I have a question and a question for Mr. Secretary. It is possible that, as someone who has no experience in this business, I have not been able to see it well, but why is it unclear to me why the funds in the two budget funds, the Fund for improving the position of persons with disabilities and the Social-Humanity Fund, have been reduced compared to last year? This shouldn't happen for many reasons. Organisations that bring together persons with disabilities or parents with disabilities who cannot represent themselves are significant holders and initiators of all projects, education programmes, training and employment of disabled persons. One study, which is currently under way, says that 90% of social security services at local level are being conducted by an organisation of people with disabilities. That is why it is unusually important that they do their part. The important thing is that the organisations of people with disabilities have been so far, and should continue to be a future, significant partner to the government in creating a policy concerning persons with disabilities. There is no need to mention a lot of documents, but the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which this assembly brought last year, as well as the Strategy for the Promotion of Position, was brought with very active participation by persons with disabilities. If these funds are reduced, they will not be able to continue to carry out their role as an advocate and representative of the category in which they are engaged, thus reducing their role as a civil society organisation. This is particularly illogical when, six months ago, the United Nations brought to this century the first Human Rights Resolution, in fact, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in which the adoption of Serbia, as a state, was very actively involved, and at the moment when the government was about to sign the convention. We hope that this assembly will be able to ratify this convention next year. So I ask that these organisations continue to be supported in the organisational, human and economic sense, so that they can continue to play their role and that, together with all other citizens, we show that disability does not have to be a burden for society, but it can be an investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2962	The People's Messenger Vidoje Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2963	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007. It has been six months since this highest house is due to adopt the most important financial act in this country. We expected the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the Honorable Minister, to be here, because other than the highest act, it is the adoption of the Constitution, I think this financial act deserves attention too, that the representatives of the government are here today with us. But it's just a picture of the government's relations with certain ministries, or ministers, towards this highest house, towards us, to the MPs, and to the state itself. We got the budget in a very short time, and that, we got it on Friday, so we only had two days to consider it. Is that enough so we can participate in the debate and make some proposals or amendments to amend the draft budget law? Certainly not, and during this period we also had temporary funding, January-March, January-June, which is not based on the Constitutional Law, because we had a bill on amendments and additions to the budget system that envisioned this possibility of temporary financing. So in this period we have funding that is not in accordance with the law. Here we had the opportunity to hear from the main rapporteur from the Democratic Party, Mr Vlahovic, that the budget is developmental. I can say this is a period of slower development. It's been a long time, six months, how we have slower activities when it comes to more important investments. We need to be more responsible for both citizens and taxpayers, because the majority of the income-based assets are corporate taxes, than tax liabilities. We've got to keep accounts in front of those taxpayers. What I want to say specifically when it comes to the 2007 budget is expenditure in certain segments. For example, expenditure on employees. Of the planned expenditures - 595 billion, 152 billion, or 23.6% are expenditures for state institutions, above all, for ministries, special organisations, various agencies, the Office of the President of the Republic, etc. We can say freely that these are huge spending and great spending. At the same time, if we want to highlight the intention of decentralisation, giving greater authority to local self-government, Article 22 of this bill says that local administrations can only increase employees' salaries by 10%, compared to September 2006. If we want to have a more rational, better and more efficient local self-government, if we want to have people controlling revenues for the local budget, I think this member of the law has to suffer a change. I, as a People's MP, will support him in the sense of change through the amendment to Article 22, which the SPS has submitted. Also, when it comes to the costs of state authorities, I would like to point out that the detached republican authorities, whether they are judicial, whether the tax administrations, whether the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, despite such planned funds and increasing their scope, do not have enough resources to function normally and work. In this regard, resolution ministers need to take a little more account, as local administrations are able to assist these decommissioned bodies through some of their funding activities. Second, transfers to municipalities. The budget says 270 billion will be collected based on VAT. It's all back 29.5 billion, which means it's coming back around 11% of the total VAT. I would like to point out that the municipalities receiving the transfer of funds under the VAT had promises that it would be at a much larger and satisfying level. I participated on behalf of the Ljubovija municipality at a conference of cities, where the previous minister said there would be more vomiting from the VAT and that local self-government would have more resources. That's not true, we could feel it in this year 2007, after the transfer of funds based on VAT vomiting. And I also want to point out that 6.5 billion other transfers, and we have 29.5 billion. The question is, what are these 6.5 billion for and who will have them, and how and whom they will be directed to? I doubt these funds can only be directed on the political line. In this sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support tax cuts, i.e. VAT on clothes and shoes for babies and children, textbooks and teaching tools, on information equipment. As far as agriculture is concerned, I'd like to say that a little resources have been allocated -- 833 million, for local self-government, for the reconstruction of water and sewers. That's very small. I also want to say that there are few resources for the regulation of water streams within the Public Enterprise "Serbia". However, I would like to praise in some way the work of the Republic Water Directorate, their people, and the "Serbians" within it, and the VPP "Sava-Dunav"; on the basis of the funds they receive, they are very much engaged in local environments. National investment plan - 44 billion. I just want to warn you that there's a great deal of activity under the National Investment Plan here. However, I also point out the delay in paying obligations to performers and signed contracts, when it comes to the implementation of projects under the National Investment Plan. This can be confirmed by all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. The activities and procedures have been carried out, but the payments are not in the end. We also see that there is a complex situation when it comes to payment, as provided for in Article 15, where the resolution minister with the project and the minister in charge of the National Investment Plan, together, must sign the warrant. I'm afraid it won't be slow when it comes to paying for the performers. What I want to say in particular is this. The budget is praised, the government is praised, the budget is said to be transparent, but the SPS will not support this budget because it does not think it reflects macroeconomic policy, social security, economic growth, employment development and standards. Therefore, first of all, which is not transparent and that so far we have not had control, audit and final accounts of the budget, the SPS will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2964	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2965	Ladies and gentlemen, the "bikini" government that proposed this budget, as you can see, is today in front of the MPs. When I say it's about the "bikini" government, it means -- it's a little covered and it doesn't reveal anything. If the budget is one country's basic financial document, and its main role in the budget's revenue, without which there would be no budget, the key attention must be paid to the taxpayers, businesses and citizens of this country, who, rightly, generate income and all its customers depend on the budget. What must be seen immediately, at first sight, is that the 2007 budget is increased dramatically, to the extent that it becomes unsustainable for taxpayers, because the figure, which figures as the actual amount of expenditure, of 646,4 billion dinars, is enormously high. This shows that the state does not intend to improve the environment for economic operators and activities and the life of an ordinary citizen, but only increases the burdens on the poor country and on the poor people of our country anyway. One question is raised: how in this whole confusion is managed and suggested something that will not increase the burden of those who already exist, and that some solutions are found and benefit at least part of the users directly, rather than indirectly, in the way this budget provides. After a brief insight into all these materials that we've received, as well as those from before, I've noticed some unusual facts that I'm about to present. First of all, I'll look back, ladies and gentlemen, on the court fees. I will start with Law on Court Taxes, Official Messenger No. 19/97, which in article 51 regulated that court fees are revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in view of the 2nd position of the member, it is said that part of the revenues from the fees paid for by court fees, amounting to 90%, is allocated and paid to a special account of the Ministry of Justice and benefits for improving the material position and conditions of work in judicial authorities. The Minister of Justice shall determine from a special account the amounts to be paid before the court. A question for the Minister of Justice - would you like this provision of the law to be in force now? How does their implementation, or respect for the law, and how much justice has been abolished since 2001? I want to put it chronologically. Once again, all I'm going to do is use the government's data, or the finance ministry. First, in 2001, in the final account, which has been increased, it states in Article 1 that the court fees amounted to 830 million 655 000 and 816 dinars, and in the Justice Ministry's work it was planned to add 600 million dinars, and only 298 million 935 thousand dinars, or less by 301 million and 64 thousand dinars, were made. What is characteristic, it is evident that the court fees have been enormously increased, that citizens today have been denied and prevented from arguing before the court, precisely because the government of the Republic of Serbia, in its previous meeting and composition, has enormously increased the court fees, so that citizens can't come to court for their rights, because the fees on charges, on complaints, are extremely high on proposals. Many citizens are running from the court today because they cannot pay enormously high court fees. When it comes to the position of judicial employees, I also have to say that employees, there are certainly tens of thousands, do not have decent personal incomes. If the Ministry of Finance would concentrate on judicial authorities to improve the material position of judicial officials and judicial employees, it turns out that they can finance themselves. What is unclear, and hidden, in a skillful manner hidden by the Ministry of Finance, is that all fees are set in one category and expressed in one amount, i.e. they are not separate and separated, first of all, administrative fees from court fees. In this way, the draft budget says that it is planned to be charged by court cabs of 14 billion. But this is where we were supposed to sort it out and say, we can only get 10% of the court fees, and we can leave 90% to the judicial authorities, that is. 10% applies to other expenditures, to those who charge administrative fees and others. Ladies and gentlemen, if the budget, as I said, is one of the most important laws in one country, we cannot bypass the fact that in our draft budget, especially when it comes to the 2006 budget, the surplus budget of 31 billion dinars is projected. I ask the question and ask the minister for an answer, although the minister is almost put to this post, but those who were former finance ministers, what are those ministers, what are the professional services that have large amounts in the deficit, and at the same time show a surplus of 31 billion dinars? In European Union countries, the budget must be such that the revenues and expenditures and amounts planned for budgetary users must be zero at the end of the year. How does this turn out now - 31 billion dinars are surpluses? It's a cover-up. That means, we're going to allocate 31 billion dinars right now, we're going to deploy this to our budget users, and now we're going to show these 31 billion as surpluses. That's not true. If the audit were to be carried out now, if the budgetary inspection had reviewed all the final accounts, it would have determined, although these accounts are not available, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not submitted final accounts to the National Assembly from 2001 to today, because budget audits are not being carried out and no one is being known to benefit. When it comes to the National Programme and the funds that are allocated to this budget, please, these are the funds that will be used by privileged individuals, which will make many others rich and profit, because there is no control over how these funds are used. That's a big problem. The big problem is he doesn't have budget control. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is microsurgery, and the most dangerous service in the state is the Ministry of Finance and his right-hand man - the Tax Administration. They're out of control. They do what they want. No one controls them. Since I have little time, and there are a large number of colleagues who will speak from the Serbian Radical Party Group, I thank you for your attention, and we will do so in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2966	I thank my colleague Jojic. Just one correction. The People's Messenger Ivan Zivadinović, therefore, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, G17 plus, as an equal member of this government and with posts in the ministries of economics, even regional development, sport, science and health, he voted in favour of this law and, of course, the G17 Group will also vote in favour of this law. I would like, on this occasion, to draw attention to some important facts relating to this budget to both you and the public of Serbia. The current finance minister, respected Mr. Cvetkovic, had a happier environment than the previous finance minister, as he remained one billion euros from former Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who hosted the ministry. What is important for us, as well as for the citizens of Serbia, is that such household business will certainly have the opportunity to see also at the Ministry of Economy and Equal Regional Development. What's interesting about citizens, is that G 17 plus intends to keep all pre-election promises, and that in the next five years unemployment will decrease by 50%. This can be done through the Ministry of Economy and Equal Regional Development, through crediting exports through the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing. So far, it has been 3m euros a year, from this year to 9.5m euros. That's what our exporters can use and so far they've used. Unfortunately, the funds were much smaller. Turning innovation into a finished product will be financed by the Development Fund, in co-operation with the Ministry of Science. So far, there has been a practice to reward the best scientific innovations in Serbia, but from the Development Fund, with 2.5 million dinars, entrepreneurs who want to turn these innovations into a product. "Start App" loans for beginners, also through the Development Fund, are very interesting, because, with minimum interest, people who are just finishing school and going to private businesses will be able to compete for 13m and 300,000 euros. Of course, and encouraging, through SIEPA, foreign direct investment, with 6.25m euros, is something that has been a very good practice in previous years. Since employment is the priority of this country, we have almost 20% of the unemployed, loans to stimulate employment and revive production in underdeveloped municipalities, through the Development Fund, amount to 20 million dinars. Then, something already being done in 43 municipalities, and these projects will continue, the development of industrial zones and parks, with 17 million and 800 000 euros, the "incubator" of companies, with 2 million and 600,000 euros, and the development of local municipal infrastructure, related to the NIP, with 30.3m euros. When I mentioned the NIP, it should be noted that you, the distinguished fellow MPs, of course, who were in the previous meeting, had the opportunity to see that the Budget Law was much more content with the previous finance minister, because you could see from the items where it was and, to the dinars, where the money of the Serbian citizens would be invested. Unfortunately, this time, regarding the NIP, we cannot see what amount and where certain projects will be financed, whether the current minister in charge of the area will continue to finance projects planned last year. I think it's going to be a question for the Secretary-General for one of the next sessions, when this assembly house will have to issue accounts and show plans for where to do this. Furthermore, as far as self-employment loans are concerned, for public works, for participation in self-employment projects, and there will be about a million euros, a total of around 140m euros for self-employment projects. It should be stressed that this year's separation for tourism development, without the National Investment Plan, is 50m euros and that projects are also involved in the development of tourist centres, such as Tornik, Tara, Zlatibor, Zlatar, Golia. It is very important that the Public Business "Skistations of Serbia" will have 102 billion dinars for the development of winter sports and that Serbia should, in perspective, develop these sports centres in order to be able to compete with one of the surrounding countries in the future for some winter Olympics. It is important that I mention this because of my fellow citizens in Uzic and the citizens of western Serbia, that this budget envisions funding of 11.9 million dinars, the construction of an athletic track in Uzic, as well as 6.8 million for the track track in Zlatibor. Then, 68 million dinars for the construction of the Olympic swimming pool in Užica, 85 million dinars for sports hall in Arilj, for sports hall in Baja Basta - 10.3 million dinars, for sports hall in Sjenica - 15.3 million dinars. Nor have those small sports grounds for youth been forgotten - in Ariel, 5.5 million dinars, in Bajina Basta - 6 million, in Koserić - 3.6 million, in Nova Varoša - 5.4 million, in Požega - 6.9 million, in Priboj - 7.9 million, in Prijepolje 8 million dinars, in Sjenica - 6.6 million, in Užica - 8.2 million dinars and in Chatetina - 3.5 million dinars. Of course we voted in favour of a united debate, so distinguished fellow MPs will likely notice that there is a law here on excise duties and amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. I would like to confirm once again that G 17 plus is very pleased that the tax and VAT cuts, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to the purchase of the first apartment, and each of the following, and that this is one of our pre-election promises, which fully fits with the policy that G 17 plus proposed to the previous government. At the time, it seemed incredible that a national housing insurance corporation could be built. This corporation is working very successfully three years later, to the joy of all the younger in this country. Now you can buy apartments on credit, which was not possible until three years ago. So much for praising the budget and amending the VAT Act, but there is one serious objection to amendments to the Excise Act. This remark is related to the tendency to remove excise duties on refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, syrups, fresh drinks, fruit juices, fruit nectar, fruit juices powder, which means anything this country, which is farm-oriented, should produce and which should protect producers. With this law, the proponent tries to impose excise duty on liquid oil gas. In colloquial use, it is auto-gas, or gas, whose price has increased over the last few days, as producers heard the Daresor minister announces that there will be an increase in price, so they wanted to make a little more money on end-users. I must inform you that the previous government, that Minister Dinkic abolished this excise duty, not only because of the surplus income he had then, but because in Serbia, approximately 150 000 users of liquid oil gas, which is an energy crisis that will affect not only Europe in the coming years, but the whole world, because liquid oil gas is currently the best fuel available in the wide use, accommodation products of liquid oil gas are less harmful to the environment than those of diesel and gasoline, ordinary and unleaded. The previous Ministry of Environmental Protection has also introduced certain environmental taxes, which we all pay when registering a vehicle. You know it's the most expensive environmental tax on diesel, that after that it's a gas tax, and that it's the cheapest thing to register a car on liquid oil gas. Because this is a blow not only to 150,000, and perhaps more, the user of liquid oil gas...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2968	Mr. Zivadinović, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2969	Here, I'll finish, thank you very much. Because this is the minimum revenue for Serbia's budget, I, in front of G 17 plus, have proposed an amendment to abolish these excise duties. I expect that all MPs who take care of the interests of citizens who voted for them, in the voting day, will support my amendments and that we will continue to be without excise duty on liquid oil gas. With an apology to all of you for taking too much time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2970	Thank you, Mr. Zivadinovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the preparations Gordana Komic, Paja Momcilov, Goran Stefanovic, Miletic, Mihajlovic be prepared. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2971	Just a little intervention. Dear counterpart Zivadinovic accurately listed the facilities that will be financed in the Užičko region, and that is nice, but I cannot allow some MPs to inform internally about what will be the subject of budget spending. So, MPs should get it, and it was my intervention this morning when I spoke in principle, a budget which, you say, is transparent, where exactly they can see what will be built, where it will be invested, in every part of Serbia. I congratulate my colleagues Zivadinovic for getting this information, and I know how he got it, but it is not fair, because opposition MPs are unable to get this information and that it is told voters, Serbian citizens. So one of the basic shortcomings, Mr. Minister, in this budget is that there is no analysis. I am taking the opportunity to ask you to do this in September, October of the month, when we are working on a new budget, this will be done in another way, otherwise there will be two types of MPs here, equal and more equal. That's not good. In order to be able to talk equally about how 600 billion dinars of income are spent by the citizens of this country, we need to be informed about what you who are managing this budget wanted to do, and not that in some positions you are telling us, these are the figures of a few billion or more, and that we cannot intervene in any way. So my intervention is well-intentioned and you're absolutely right, Mr. Zivadinović. The budget we discussed last time, whatever I thought about it, was, as far as the MPs were concerned, easier readable, analytically separated, so we could get involved in the debate correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2972	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2973	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget of one state is the first exam for the government to be formed, these of us -- after three months of blackmail and trade in DS and DSS. In every normal democratic country, it is the first exam and assessment for the government. But before that, you failed the exam -- kidnapping General Tolimir, which we'll be talking about in two days. If it is about a strategically important document, which is of its importance immediately after the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Budget Law, this budget is not the creation of Mr Cvetkovic and this government, as Serbian Radical Party MPs, in waiting for the draft budget, dealt with paragraphs and economic classifications as provided by Milan Parivodić. The difference is, in nominal terms, there is a slight difference, which new ministries have been introduced. What happened was what I assumed, so I asked one of the leading experts in the area of the budget, counterpart Tabakovic, what she thought, when Mr Cvetkovic's budget came in, if, as you say, it would be transparent funds from the National Investment Plan, and she said she didn't think it would. We were right, and she and I were right, because what was the economic classification of 463 for the AP Vojvodina, and that was said earlier by a colleague from the G17 Plus party, that it was unclear to him, so I'm surprised that he didn't make an amendment, because it's an institutional path to change something, if he can give you some pack, Mr. Minister, and 489, I have that part from the Parivodic budget, so absolutely in the cities of the NiP's appraisal, that's just something, I have to warn other colleagues from the ruling parties, which is on paper, and whether it's going to be, you don't know. It says - 2007 - 2008 and everyone here talked about fostering local patriotism, regional representation, which is really insane, because Serbia is one electoral unit. Of course everyone loves their city and their environment, and I'm gonna talk about the Kragujevac problem and something that happened today, and it's personal to you, Mr. Minister of Government. Come on, you explain to us who guarantees, you or Dragan Gilas, or Kostunica, or the whole government, that this will stay this way. If there is an appraisal for 2007 and 2008 from the NIP by some projects, you know how these projects were obtained, by having had some influence or blackmailing local authorities, so come on, we'll give you something, while Dinkic was handing out his hand and hat, and now it's all in the haze, so they'll ask those in the field of health and education. I'm very interested that there are no Gilas, let's say I ask him about the gondola from Ada Giganlia to New Belgrade, when the citizens are going to ride the gondola, because that clearly stood in that previous plan. Some of you will have a headache, and these are your associates, or they have supported you in local self-government, such as the town of Kragujevac and this still mayor of Stevanović. He's been promised that money, in principle -- I'll give it to you, and you back me, you have nine MPs, all the way to the end of that government, and there'll be nothing out of it. Another thing that is amazing, Mr Cvetkovic, in a state like Serbia, and this was warned by counterpart Tabakovic, it is that you cannot come out with a clear figure of how much our lower poverty line is. Budget isn't social, because it doesn't have that social component, and where it has a social component, it's classification 472, it's all in the mist again. What I am particularly interested in is the metal complex of Serbia, in this case, the town of Kragujevac, because today, apart from the Serbian Parliament and you from the government, and Kostunica and Dinkic, the City Assembly had to take views on the issue. Again, the loudest were the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, because people from the metal complex came looking for answers to, for them, simple questions, but obviously, for you complicated. This is where you defined the funds in the so-called. the transition fund, amounting to 7.5 billion dinars, for enterprises, i.e. for social assistance to those in the so-called process. transitions, which are kidnappings, robbery, layoffs, poor 100-euro severances, and now they appear with concrete demands. It is today the decision of a representative body, such as the City of Kragujevac Assembly. We've initiated it to come to the agenda, and today these others have heard it too. So, workers from all over Serbia are now asking you to answer their question ( since one authorised representative is here, and from the ruling party, within three minutes of one of their written speeches said - restructuring, or restructuring, as different and more correctly said, businesses are not done until the end, the privatisation process in social enterprises is not finished by the end of March of this year) - what is now going to be? There's a question for you, Mr. Minister, are you going to change, quickly, for the fifth time, the Privatisation Act and retroactively apply it? What about these companies, such as the Zastava Group, "October 21st", "Philip Kljajic", who knows how many other enterprises in Serbia, in which the privatisation process has not been carried out, and what you promised, or DOS government, was not done in 2001. What about the severances of these people and can you now go out for a pay phone and say what about these nearly 6,000 employees at the Employment and Education Office? You neither overqualified them, nor created conditions for the work of these people in small and medium-sized enterprises, because there are none, and all of this in these classifications from the ministry to the ministry, 423 - contracted services, and 424-specialized services, is a fantastic method for money laundering, or for taking what it takes, from the ministry to the ministry. Since this has been so unfavourablely given, therefore, that is the amount allocated in the 2007 budget of 7.5 billion, are you ready to say specifically for social programs, for the town of Kragujevac, for Bor, for Vranje, for how long it takes and how these people will be compensated. They ask of you, and that's what we're going to insist on, those are the demands that are fully justified for us, not only by the metals, but by all the workers, and they're likely to go through all of Serbia now. Did you form a government? Did you say you had a great budget income? Are your extraordinary revenues from selling one resource? You inherited that from Mladjan Dinkic. Did you share how you're going to handle it? Well, now tell them that they're going to be compensated, and they're going to be reduced by retirement time, since the state obviously didn't provide them with a job, they're not being provided with strategic partners, and there are no projects to make it possible. What Dinkic put into the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, some kind of "start-ap" credit, which should mean that you are starting a new job, it is only for those who are similar to the party. It's the same case with farmers, which is the deadline for tomorrow. Here, Mr. Kristin and other fellow MPs from the SRS checked today. Then you should go out for the assembly pay phone and tell those peasants, the farmers in which party to join tonight, whether you or Dinkic, to get loans, possibly, tomorrow, under the duress of membership. In the entire Shumadian district, only one man, from one village in the Racan municipality, received a loan from the entire 40,000 dinars without being a member of the G17 Plus party or another from the previous government. Everyone else, and I don't have time, I've already wasted a lot of time on the SRS's MPs' group, sorting out every village in the forest area. No one who came honestly to ask for a loan from the state and the previous ministry, and that now applies to this current one, could get one single dinar, because you're peeling the skin of both workers and peasants, but as you do, it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2974	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2975	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 and Article 104 that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Ms. Jovanovic has presented a number of qualifications that do not stand, and party G17 plus is addressed. First, it doesn't really make sense to say that only farmers who are members of the G17 plus get loans. That's not true. You have thousands and millions of examples that the members of the SRS have also received loans. I know, at least, in the King, in one village, five people who got credit, and members of the SRS. Go to a place called the Boats, your King's MP knows it very well, and he knows very well what's going on. The other thing I want to tell you is the National Investment Plan. All those who had little to do with the National Investment Plan last year know what the application procedure was, for projects for the National Investment Plan. The state institutions and institutions of local self-government, NGOs, citizens' associations had the right to propose projects for the National Investment Plan. They had no right to political parties. There's a project center where all the proposals came together. There is a project approval council, which consisted of five ministers and their co-workers, also from the ministries. Then what happened? It happened that those projects that had project documentation and those municipalities that competed with quality projects were in the NIP funding plan. Those projects that weren't funded last year, I'm guessing they're being funded this year. It is clear exactly how much money could be withdrawn last year and how much funding can be withdrawn this year and probably, since the NIP is planned for five or six years to come, it will be known next year how much the funds will be withdrawn. It really doesn't make sense to accuse a minister, a political party, of usurping some projects. Be honest, so tell us how many municipalities in Serbia from the SRS have applied for NIP projects and have passed. I know an example from Požega, the gasification of Požega. Is the head of the Pozega municipality from the Serbian Radical Party, it is. Yes, it is. We really need to be honest, I don't think we should blame Minister Dinkic or G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2976	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think there's any more convincing evidence that the G17 plus loans were shared by party belongings. The best evidence is that I provided MP G17 plus, because he knows from which village the radicals got it, and how come he doesn't know about the members of his party. These stories of not misusing power for political purposes are completely pointless. You've had the chance to hear, in the best possible way, how they do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2978	Thank you. The right to replica is used by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2979	Mr. Djudjevic, you should have warned this G17 Nesovic that he had no right to harm Article 101, because you are neither president nor deputy president of the G17 Plus Group. If there's been any changes, let me know. As for the violation of dignity and the member you advertised, you yourself have injured a member of the Rules of Procedure because you have severely violated the dignity of Serbian peasants and farmers. The way you pressure them, as Mr Todorovic said, not only do you know which villages they are from, but I think you also know what these people have in the stables and who their members are. It's not funny, Mr. Nesovic, I'm going to tell you the case of a man who is, like, a set of circumstances or not, a member of another party, is not a G17. I won't tell you which one it's from. He's from the village of Dobroca. He spoke 26 times to the credit ministry, with all the conditions needed to get credit, if all is so transparent and if it's open. Of course he didn't win, because in that village, you and your party won two or three votes, I don't remember exactly, and the SRS 50% plus one vote, plus another 5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2980	Thank you. The right to the replica is used by Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2981	Since Mr Nesovic of the Kingdom, as a folk MP in front of G17 plus, mentioned the MP of the SRS, which is me, Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, who comes from the Kingdom municipality, just to let the public know and that the King knows that you, too, dear MPs, know that everything he said is not true. No one could get a loan unless he was a member of G17 plus or, in this case, since we have the ruling DSS-NS coalition, theirs. This gentleman was in the position of the municipality manager, so something the president of the municipality, something they didn't find, so now someone else, from New Serbia, replaced him, so he also proved incompetent as a manager. Why they brought him here now, I have no idea. Take care of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2982	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2983	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting to Members 103 and 104. So, after a lot of doubt, that we know where and how gasification projects are financed within Serbia. Here, we heard. Sir, it's not true what you said, I don't see that the main source of gas financing for Ivanjica and Požega - NIP. The same story was from the president of the municipality of Ivanica, when he came to Kruševac, where I came from, where there was another story about how gas was financed. Also, it's not true, since I'm from Kruševac, it's close to the Shipmen, that it's done the way you brought it out, but it's true that for people in Kruševec, or from the villages, peasants who submitted the demands, clearly knew who was the radical, who couldn't, who couldn't get and who couldn't get. As for your remarks, it was explained on television why it was said to be a coded organization. In Mr. Stevan Kukoleče's organisational and business lexicon, it exactly writes what the code is, what the organization is, and there's no reason why, when you get scientific evidence why you're called a coded organization, you're angry. These things you said weren't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2984	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, so Mrs. Nadica Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to talk, but this particular loan thing led me to it. In the 1990s, I built the first private hotel in Zemun. In 1991, what happened, secession, brother-killing wars, I had to move from Croatia, I came to my city where I live. There I had my restaurants, hotels and the largest souvenir shop known in Europe. I opened TV in 2002, and there was an article in the paper about asking some bank for credit to develop this TV, to inform, educate and educate the Roma people. I went to the Vojvodjanska Banka. I happen to be recognized by one of the officers and she says, "Come on, you're going upstairs." He took me to the director. The director says - you're welcome, Damjanovic, we read about you and your television, we decided to give you a loan. I'm saying great. But I have to see the Director General tomorrow. I come tomorrow, God knows how, all done, they say I'll be there in five days. I'll be there in five or six days. The credit was as divine as approved, and when I came, the director said - Mr. Damjanović, you know... I said - I know what it is, I can't get a loan. Unfortunately, I can't get a loan. What's the matter? I'm a marked Roma, they know me everywhere, they know I'm a Serbian radical, the first Roma in the history of our country to be appointed by Dr Vojislav Seselj and the SRS as minister. Look, this is the truth, I'm not accusing anyone, I'm just saying, on the political line, there's that. So there were loans from the government to speed up small and medium-sized enterprises, but when they heard it was Jovan Damjanovic, they said -- that's the one, the former minister, that's not a chance. Trust me, until today, I have my own private hotel on which I have no burden, I have nothing, I can't get a mortgage loan. I hope there's going to be some other time, and what I said, this is the truth, that on the political line we radicals can't get a loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2986	The word is Nadia Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2987	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few false information was delivered here by the MPs of the SRS. For the sake of the public, I am obliged to inform you of the following. The Ministry of Agriculture in the previous meeting had different measures, which, on the one hand, led to the promotion and development of agriculture, and, on the other hand, were measures to encourage non-commercial holdings, i.e. to assist non-non-commercial land. Non-commercial holdings are, above all, holdings owned by farmers over the age of 55. This measure has helped many such farmers, who are unable to monitor all trends and the development of the economy, as other holdings can, with younger owners. I'm embarrassed to hear this pay phone being abused, so it's said to be a three-way 40,000. Those 40,000 dinars helped farmers, and I ask you not to put these things behind this pay phone anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2988	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2989	And it's really embarrassing for me, ma'am, that Vitosevic robbed the country for 13 million dinars, but also for putting a earring in every pig's ear and lamb, every calf and every cow, and for forcing a Serb peasant to pay that kind of tax, so today there's no free reproduction, except for these names of your members you're giving credit to. If we start talking about the abuses of Vitosevic, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Mladjan Dinkic, will take us far away. Vlahovic, however, will smile, will be nice to him, we left him alone for a moment. You'd better keep your mouth shut, because if we come in with specific documentation only for the Ministry of Agriculture, if he shows up in the O.R. right now, Masic and every radical, according to the Rules of Procedure, tells you how much was robbed and stolen in that ministry alone, you will see that this story will take you far below the censorship, to the impossible mission to cross him into every city where you acted and, in general, in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2990	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zorica Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2991	Mr. Nesovicu, Miss Jovanovic is absolutely right. Tell me, did any of the Nislims who competed get credit? You thought you'd rule for 100 years, so in Nis you built five city municipalities and gave them a spoon, both from the city's budget and from here. My colleagues from Nis know well, and here your colleague, Mr Branislav Jovanovic, who is the director of the City Construction Directorate, has paved the way for parliamentary elections through the villages of all the Sokakas, not one street, so that the SRS's boardmen in the City Assembly have carried parts of the asphalt to show how well it is done, how good it is quality and how much it affects the security of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2992	MP Gordana Komic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2993	Ladies and gentlemen, considering that managing the government budget, at the risk of economic and financial experts, experts in theory and the application of fiscal and monetary policies, is against simplification, in these few minutes, I want, firstly, all of you who, as experts, understand, if not all, most of them, to ask – why don't you simplify all of this. Because the questions we hear in these two days, from the people we're talking to, are what you're talking about and what you're discussing. So the question of citizens and citizens of Serbia is whether there will be bigger pensions, whether they will now collect electricity from that budget, whether we will have more money in education, or whether there will be less, what will happen to preschool institutions, whether there will be gas or there will be no gas. So, with a desire to share from this place at least a little clarity as to why I consider budget management to be a government, these are the sentences that follow. In short, every budget, in Serbia, and in countries that stand much better economically than Serbia, as well as in countries that stand worse than Serbia, therefore, in all countries that are not financed from lack of evidence, as we had one period of 1990s, the collection of money, i.e. the creation of a budget, means the answer to two difficult questions. These are -- how to collect money, from whom to collect money, and then, even more difficult to question -- who to whom to make that money, as budget users, by the laws in this assembly, to direct. Why are these difficult questions for every macroeconomicist and for each of us MPs, I repeat, and in the countries of the European Union, not only in developing countries such as Serbia, but in countries like Germany, France, Great Britain, I will not talk about other countries because they have a completely different system of budgets? Because in seeking answers to the question -- how a fiscal policy strategy must be given, we need to know clearly what taxes we want in the country and whether we have an economy that is capable of investing those taxes in public finances, whether we have citizens who can tax, personal taxes, burden to fill what we consider sustainable for the economy as currently in Serbia. We are facing reforms within the framework of tax policy, both when it comes to profits, and when it comes to pension insurance and the introduction of a second pillar. We are awaiting further reforms in tax policy and our task is, I mean our assembly, to assess whether what is well assessed in front of us in relation to who we buy taxes from and what taxes we buy, as well as whether we will be able to really meet the needs of some, if they are the beneficiaries of the budget, whether some of them are well targeted. This is, in general, the problem of each budget - whether you have well set the value of the money that you have collected from all of them, and only given to some, have you seen well what social groups are and what sectoral policies are, which are projects and what areas, those that have been given in these years, or just this year, or this year as the first one should be determined as expenditure. In each country, it is a problem and countries differ as to whether they have socially responsible budgets or so on. Liberal budgets, where the state, like, doesn't interfere with the economy. As much as I believe and be deeply convinced that the state can't make money and can't make a profit, that the state can't manage an economy, the state is responsible for the environment in which economic life develops, it's responsible for the regulation of what, based on private capital, in that country, will make profits and create new jobs and, finally, to reject that amount of tax that we MPs estimate is sufficient and that it is possible to be collected to balance our budget, with a deficit or surplus. It's just, how do I say, the way budgets are represented. What the state must be responsible for is a good economic climate and a good environment, in order for all investors to feel there is a rule of law and there is no selective law enforcement. Many here essentially talked about the selective application of the law. When it comes to the selective application of laws that are not directly related to the budget, it does not hurt so much, but when you see the selective application of the law directly related to public finances, or the means that are purchased from all of us, then there is a growing sense of injustice in society, which is a negative feeling for any proposal on the progress of society, for the division of awareness of how far we have progressed since 2001 in public finance reforms and how much, in essence, we politicians, but how many people in Serbia have achieved good results in those seven years. Our role as an opposition, or most, only changes at first sight when it comes to the budget. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter if I'm a member of the opposition or a member of the majority, because we believe that our mission, whether we support or oppose the government, is to draw the best possible from the budget, which is its proposal. Looking at what the context of this budget is, therefore, that it is being brought to the Serbian Parliament, all MPs who have had a grudge over the short term in which it has been made, because five months has already been spent in some way. My context is that the population of Serbia and citizens, if they consider someone responsible, will say so in the elections. It's a context in which we bring this budget and from this context you can't escape, as much as you like this budget to look different. As far as I'm concerned, on some income side, I'd like to see a change in tax policy in the income tax domain and in the tax domain. Retirement insurance now, not in six months. Context is such that it simply isn't possible. Any opposition or members of the ruling majority, when you address the minister in whose ministry you want to intervene, the minister or minister will tell you - it can't. That's what ministers are for, to say that they can't do it either retroactively, or there's no way. They're right ministers, because if you want to change some positions, every minister has a right to say, well, I will, just tell me where to get it from. There's no money on the side that we, who would like some new expenditure, could raise that amount, so let's say, give another 20 million for health care, give another half billion for the agricultural budget, etc. The difficulties when you have little and when you are a developing country are such that it is even more complicated to make an adequate spending side of the budget than in countries that are successful. Since we're used to talking in currency amounts that we've had more trust in, fortunately, we have a dinar trust, these 589 billion is somewhere above seven and a bit of a billion euros. The city of Dortmund has almost 10 billion euros, about Berlin not to talk. These are the measures of the Serbian state and that is the context, not to speak. My fellow MPs mention Moscow, too. We can also talk about deficits made by both Moscow and Berlin in their national states, but euro figures are listed only because of the context, to see where we are as a state. So our intentions were to warn all ministries and the government that we can accept the context in which this budget is brought, as it is, that we can welcome the reduction in the tax on the transfer of absolute rights of 2.5 percent to purchase an apartment and five percent to buy the first apartment, as we particularly welcome the reduction of VAT for computer equipment and software with computer equipment - by 18 percent. What we would especially like to highlight is another context. It is that Minister Mirko Cvetkovic will have to re-enter the assembly in just over two months, with a draft budget for 2008. This is being driven by the Budgetary System Act, which will not be applied if we together, MPs of the opposition and the ruling majority, do not share our awareness that this is our shared responsibility. So my proposals to Minister Cvetkovic are that, already in the application of this budget, he takes into account several items that he may have on the dispensary side without our amendments. The first items are in the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health had one program on preventing, improving and preserving women's health, establishing health care services and restoring what we once had as a standard. So, preventative breast examinations and preventive examinations of uterus throats, blood intake for diabetes testing and all that we had as a budget standard, which someone used to pay for. The question is, was there money for that? What were we healthy from, and now we are the population who put the job before women's health, especially in Serbia? That you're a woman who has to do at least two jobs, one where she's employed, if she gets paid where she's employed, and the other one in the gray economy -- that she gives lessons, bakes cakes, shrieks or anything else, because she's missing 20, 50, 70 euros, if she feels the symptoms, she'll say, first job, then health. Where do the terrible data we've heard from the MPs come from here? We lose one woman a day in Serbia, due to the healing form of uterus cancer. The health ministry has already had action and has adopted a vaccine programme for 2008. I'm asking the Ministry of Health, and I'm asking the finance minister to pass it on to him, namely, to have the prevention program started in the last six months. Is the Ministry of Health going to do this in terms of investment plans, because it's about 0.2% of the total GDP, it's about a billion and 600 million dinars? So we're going to ask you on the Health Committees what you've done to reintroduce the prevention of women's health and the health of the population. The second topic is also for the Ministry of Health. Based on the start of a strategy for responsible parenting, i.e. for population policy, we should consider what we can do in 2008, as a Assembly, to do to support the birth of a second, third, fourth and further child in Serbia. Can we, as a country, assess whether 2% of the total amount of Serbia's budget is enough for all the social needs of a family with one or no children, especially for families that have no child, and would want it. Believe me, such families in Serbia are incredibly large. Serbia has knowledge of artificial insemination and has centres, but it needs someone here, in the assembly, for the 2008 budget, now to say that we will agree on this. I speak more to the MPs of the opposition than I tell the ministers of the government, which I support, and I really think they did the best possible job in the draft of this budget in the context of what it is. Furthermore, the topic I would like to inform the minister, which we will insist on, is the results of the poverty reduction strategy so far. Research from 2003, 2004, 2005 says 10.6% of the population in Serbia is absolutely poor. That means they live at less than 4,970 dinars a month. It is not a horror, and it is not a big deal that we are no longer talking about in the Assembly, it is a terrible unbalanced regional agenda for poverty in Serbia. If you look at only the population of Southeast Serbia, there is a poor 26.4% of the population. If you're looking at Belgrade, there's a percent - 4.6. If you look in parallel at how the population in the region of Vojvodina - Belgrade - western Serbia decreased, it was twice as much in 2005 as in 2003, but in southeastern Serbia it did not. So, if we're already talking about the Ministry of Economic and Regional Development, then I think we're consensual, as MPs of the opposition and the majority, that's a priority. One last remark, which I would really ask for to have support from MPs, is much more important to me than ministers and all of them should think about together, we will press them together, is the funding of national councils in Serbia. National councils are formed under the law passed at the level of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro and this is a topic still seeking its law. They've got some choices coming up. It was tried at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to see if the place was national councils. Four new national councils have been formed. We think Serbia can be proud of the fact that it has regulated the status of national communities and the basic skeleton of rights that members of national communities can enjoy. But there is not enough money in this budget for the functioning of national councils. Because, 60 million is too little to function the existing four new national councils. In an attempt, living discussions, to find a solution, we heard information that I failed to find in the budget, a hand to heart, which is that 90 million dinars are given to maintain and edit a court complex in Belgrade. I have nothing against it, on the contrary, I want everything that is cultural, historical, whatever heritage to be arranged. But is it possible that we have 90 million for this, and for the functioning of national councils we don't have more than 60 million? There is always a way for missing money, at least now, so before the minister comes back with the 2008 budget in two months, to take care of it now. National communities in Serbia have always had understanding, even when, without need, some members of the majority population make mistakes. In the end, it is often heard in public that we, the Serbian Parliament, are very much costing and that we are not working hard enough for the money that stands out for us. The total amount of money, therefore, with the cost of the elections, is 3 billion 611 million 754 thousand in the National Assembly. Of which, less than 2 billion a year cost the congregation. That's about 0.42% of the budget. So I'd like to have this number in our head whenever we think that the government, or the Assembly, or the Agency spends too much and how much less than 0.42% of the budget should be invested, i.e. who would benefit if you cut 0.42% of the budget to 0.21%. I'll be the first to raise my hand and press "green," but I'd like to talk about the facts when it comes to it. In the end, if I don't lose my answer, I'll say the following. There was talk here about using language. (Gojko Radic, the raider from the scene: Is this the last one? The MP asks if this is the last one. It's not the last, it's the last, because if it's the last, then there's the front. If it's the last one, then there's the first one. So, our language has a rule that nouns change by kind, number and fall, and never an apprehension for the use of nouns in a female is not in the so-called. The hornets of language or lack of standardisation, but in the prejudice that you don't sound important enough if you are - the president, that you don't sound serious enough if you are - Minister. Simply, using language, you send a clear message about where the woman belongs. The MP's trying to throw it away, but he doesn't dare. We belong, therefore, to a movement that he thinks we should just apply the rules of our language -- to change all the phonebooks by gender, number and fall. By the way, there is an interesting noun that reflects by its spirit what those who use language think of women, and in their dissension by getting along with one another, it speaks of the mentality of the people. It's a noun. It's a coward. You can't say - he's a coward. It has a completely different context. Anyway, he's a coward. So, yeah, here, we made at least one deal. [[elevator in the O.R.]] People's MPs who are against -- "the ambassadors," say, can both "the coward" and "the coward". I hope we have reached at least one agreement for a future, much better budget for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2994	I thank the MP Gordani Komic. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, from the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2995	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really think the pointless debates of the MPs are about linguistics. We have a valid spelling, let the linguists deal with whether we're going to be MPs or MPs. For now, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are MPs and we cannot change that. This is not why I intervened in the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, in fact to remind, that a group of brave, brave patriots, about a week ago, set off on Gazimestan, with the intention that on June 28th, Vidovdan, in Gazimestan, they symbolically show that Kosovo and Metohija are in Serbia and that no one can separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. The group of people, unfortunately, here as well as in this hall, because only Serbian radicals applaud this information, on their way from Belgrade to the Kingdom today, there is no help from local self-government. They've asked us to say it publicly, there may be some president of the municipality who might be ashamed of himself, so he's kind of helping them out. The municipal boards of the SRS have provided them in every place they've been waiting for, and they've provided a decent meal, where they could provide a place to sleep. Of course, we don't have, as a party, such opportunities that we can provide without the help of local self-government. I repeat, we didn't have that help anywhere. These people are with their feet full of blisters, full of wounds, there's no one to wrap them up. Yesterday, Dr. Poscurica, and I must say, he had help and the president of Knic municipality, provided medical staff, bandaged their wounds. Today, here are the SRS activists all day, along with representatives of this Vidovdan march, asking the Director of the House of Health and the King's Hospital to provide them with two or three nurses and some medical supplies. Even if we don't insist on the material, our activists will buy it down there, just to get them nurses to wrap it up, so they can go on where they're going and be happy to get to Gazimestan and all of you Gazimestan and Kosovo and Metohija, dear colleagues, experience it the way these people experience it. There are young and old, and women and men. I was with my colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, the day before last, in Kragujevac with them and I really convey their appeal, gentlemen local officials, as you treat these people. It is our position to treat both Kosovo and Metohija in this way, and you have no right to do so. Help, at least, so many of these people, let them sleep somewhere, don't ask for divine conditions, some sports hall where they can take a shower. Especially today, gentlemen of the King, Mr. President of the Royal Municipality, Mr. Directors of the House of Health or Madam, I don't know what they are, Mr. Director of the Hospital, go to the SRS Municipal Committee or call on the phone and send two or three nurses to cover the wounds with these honorable patriots.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2996	According to the Rules of Procedure, Slavisa Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2997	Mr. Chairman, I must admit that you have a much better session than Mr. Albianic. I don't know if you like to chair like him, but hurry up, now Dulic will, so your luck has come to an end. According to Article 226, I expect answers from Mr. Secretary of Finance. Minister, please record that you can answer my questions later. The new finance minister, as well as some of his coalition partners, presented several things that are simply not true. They have done this tentuously to continue cheating on this troubled people of Serbia. What is the economic situation in society? There is no economic development, general indifference of the economy, general poverty and misery, total economic collapse, loss of economic sovereignty and non-lonial slavery. This is the current characteristic of our economy. The finance minister said Serbia is not an overindebted country, saying only about the debt of the state or public debt, which is nine billion euros. What about the debt of the economy that's even bigger and it's $11.5 billion? What economy will repay that debt and whose population will suffer for it, Mr. Minister? Serbia's external debt is 62% of the social gross product. Serbia is a highly in charge of the country. The total debt of Serbia, both public and private, has passed $20 billion, Mr. Minister. Budget expenditure for 2006 amounted to 505 billion dinars. The expenditure of the 2007 budget should amount to 646 billion dinars. That's 28% growth on the spending side. Find me an economist who is not a member of your ruling coalition parties who, with an inflation of 6.5% and an economic growth of 5.9% will not say that this budget is not inflationary and that inflation is artificially hidden. You said there were 692,000 unemployed at the Employment Service. That's what the missus from the encrypted, "van" party said. That's not true. As of 31 December 2006, 916,000 people were registered at the Employment Service, almost a million people without employment. You can check that at the Republic Statistics Office. The foreign trade deficit for five months is $2.8 billion. You boast of customs and excise incomes. Well, that's the revenue on the goods from the imports. Gentlemen, what about our economy? What about our goods? What about our workers? Keep an eye out, Serbia's economy is going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2998	Mr. Topalovic, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u2999	I just commended you not to be an Albian, but I guess that's some syndrome. Our economy has been falling apart for seven years, where you're taking her. Very quickly, most small businesses will be in a position not to settle their tax obligations. Take care of that moment. The MPs of the SRS will not support such a policy of the sun, as it has been in the past seven years, which you are conducting and which continues. The MPs of the SRS will not support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3000	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3001	Madam MPs or Mrs. Comic, I can understand when in the election campaigns you deceive the public and promise, but I can't understand when you come here for a pay phone and you call for help with national councils. When you say that these funds could be bigger, so the minister is from your ranks, why didn't you do it and why aren't these funds bigger? It's very unfair for you to call out here and talk about national councils. You're the first, after some previous parties, not to talk about them, in the old days, that you like to mention, who cheated on national minorities, to take that same practice. That's how you deceived the Bunjevac National Council. You have concluded a coalition with the Bunjevac National Council that one MP from the Bunjevac ranks will be in this parliament after the elections. Then you fooled them, there's nothing wrong with it. You only needed them in the election. Who now gives you the right to regret that these funds are not greater? You could, I said, make them bigger. You have a minister, you're a ruling coalition, and it doesn't give you the right to whine from here and tell the cry about how small these funds are. Please get a little serious and don't consider this House inconclusive, especially the citizens of the Bunjevci you have deceived. And here, just so you don't come out later, and you say something happened, that a set of circumstances didn't allow the Rebel to be in this Parliament, to say this. You knew this set of circumstances, and you knew that the law did not allow parallel functions to exist -- a province MP and a republican MP, but you deliberately led the Bunjevci astray and you put a man who in the District Parliament, and then you said - can't, because he's in the District Parliament. Why didn't you help the province's MP resign, like the Bunjevac, there, and come to the Republic Parliament? No, that's not what you wanted. They are needed only when the elections are or for your empty stories in the local parliament. Therefore, as a party that has deceived a national minority and a national minority, you have no right to such discussions. I regret that this budget is so small and that for the national council there is no more funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3002	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3003	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. - The MP has the right to request information and explanations. I have the right to ask for both information and explanations, given that we know that this is the draft budget and that there will probably be no final account for it, or checking the final accounts, as it happened in earlier years, practically since 2001, since no budget has had a check, or he has had any final accounts, but without any revision. It's clear to me that any budget in such a way can be, in fact, a set of pre-election promises. Andersen's fairy tales can be written about such a budget, because, will it be realized and how it will be realized, that's a big question. Since it is so untransparently written that it is untransparently shown, I ask, on behalf of the people of the Borsko district, on behalf of 20,000 unemployed people from the Borsko district, who is otherwise one of the 13 threatened regions in terms of economy and state of economy, will these people be better off after this budget? Will they live better? Will new jobs be opened for them? Will the economy come to life? How much will they invest in the economy? What about subsidies, etc? I just want to let you know that since 2001, from the famous, revolutionary year 2000, which I wouldn't call revolutionary, but counter-revolutionary, because revolutionaryly it means that something is better, that something is new, but nothing better has happened, 6,000 people in Bor have lost their jobs. Also, 3,500 people were out of work, in the Prahovo Chemical Products Industry, by introducing these crisis headquarters into these companies. Please, workers of the Mining-Toping Base Bor have a hundred-year experience of melting ore, a hundred-year experience of life from the sale of copper. Will they have to learn how to grow peanuts or, in some ways, will something come back to life, or will the economy of this region come back to life? People of the Prahovo chemical products industry have also lived for generations from production in the chemical industry. I ask you, will the state sell out both the Bor mine and the Majdanpek mine and all the surface nettles, and there are three, and two fleets, and the Belgrade pedestrian, and the Krech factory, and the copper wire factory, and they only give subsidies for wages...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3004	Time, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3005	... or will finally meet the desire of union workers and former leadership to boost action capital, to subsidize, given that the Mining-Topier Basel Bor has the biggest debt to the state and a slightly smaller debt to foreign creditors, whether one action will be made to translate these debts...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3006	Mr. Dimitrievich, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3007	... to allow strategic partners to enter and become, in practice, shareholders. Just to remind you that approximately, the stock of estimated ore is about two billion tonnes, that the world market price of copper is stable and that it will be a positive economic shift if the price of copper is only 3,000 US dollars on the world market, and now it's nine. It is a great interest of the state, it is a great interest of 20,000 unemployed people in the Borski region to be revived, in a way, this exploitation of the Mining-Topier Baseline Bor and to end up adequately privatising the Prahovo chemical product industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3008	Thank you, colleague Dimitrievich. The word is Fired Mihajlovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3009	The draft budget that we have before us is written in extremely small letters and even smaller numbers, I guess we are older, and most of us are in this assembly, we don't see what this is about. I've been looking at it, I've been watching it in the morning, I've been watching it all day, and I can't figure out if this is a printing error or if this is an exact number. The defence ministry envisions a billion 535 million 239 thousand 152 dinars for travel. If you're making me read this one more time, it's impossible. So it's billions and a half in the text. I'm glad if our country started some project that I didn't know about, the type of space shuttle, and that our soldiers, as part of some science program or some of our "war stars," will travel to Mars, and perhaps still. I'm just afraid of two things, that this isn't the cost of our soldiers who, as well as well-packed meat, have dedicated it to Afghanistan or Iraq, or, secondly, and it seems to me that it's more certain, that what's called the Army, and in fact it's only left of the real army, and everything that carries its paws to travel to the Pentagon, both by opinion and by alignment. So this is just amazing, if in the same column of the Department of Defense we have an 825 thousand dinars for social contributions to employees. Pathetic, indeed, for social contributions, especially with regard to these travel costs. It's amazing, especially when we see that we have data on one ministry on the same side, which is the Foreign Ministry, which has some justification for a lot of travel. There were 174 million 415 thousand and 852 dinars allocated for the ministry's travel expenses. So, where's the logic? This should really be explained to us where our army travels. I highly doubt it's about town traffic stamps. Is this really what I said and it's true? Are they going to line up at the Pentagon every day? Is that where we came from? It is your project to destroy the Army, which you call reduction or how, and it is reportedly in line with European or regional trends, and the word "region" is a particularly disgusting word, which you have introduced. I know that I live in the capital of a Serbian people named Belgrade, and this country of ours was the country around which everything revolved in the Balkans and we were never a region. So, look at these armies in the region, as you say. Rarely reduced to this kind of misery that ours has been reduced to. Well, here's to us friendly Greece, it's the only one who has over 200,000 soldiers under arms, and the second and third calls are not even known, but surely that figure is far greater than the 200 grand mentioned; by some estimates, it's up to 600,000. And we, and a more human people, and a country in greater danger, a country to which they want to take an integral part of its territory, are destroying our own army. As you say, you bring her to a zero level, you knock down the system. It's like a computer game for kids. Right now, you're selling everything alive from the material and technical means that this army has. There's a lot of out-of-date trucks, unusable tanks, but it's a lot of use, and you're destroying it, because you've given our archenemys a vow to destroy Serbia. That's where all the travel expenses are from. I have no doubt you'll spend it on those trips, just that you're not ashamed to announce it. In small letters, though, you tried to hide your shame, but here we are, making known to our people what money goes for the Army - that your chosen officers, deserters and defetists would travel to worship your bosses. That's what this is about, dear gentlemen. You further in the text about the Ministry of Defence led, as some sort of a listed thing, something irrelevant, so you put those travel expenses behind the fee in nature, whatever that means, behind the social benefits, which are elsewhere, etc. So it's a complete anti-Serb part. This is where you try to end it with a budget like this, with all the money you spend on the Army. What's hidden from the eyes of the public, which could serve us as the best picture of the situation in the current military, in what you call the Army, is the situation on our border, which you don't control at all, for the same reason you're destroying the Army. You made a deal, you promised to introduce some special political forces at the border. Of course, you put the army away first, and then we move on. At the border there were 3600 excellently trained our border guards. These border guards had no stains in their careers, none of them were even misdemeanor, let alone being prosecuted. If that had happened to him, he would have been kicked out of that service right away. Now, instead of bringing 5,000 officers to that border, among them are those who have not only pleaded guilty, but are criminally and punished. The difference is huge, not to say that our border is as pornic as some sieve, even where it could be said, by geographical characteristics, that it's easy to look after, so it's in flat areas. There are abandoned roads, electronic communications buried in the ground, so our border guards can't even find their way around our border. Of course, when I say border guards, I mean those who are merely figuratively called today, which are some of the forces that you brought there. So what you have, this little thing that you left behind to improve the material resources of the military, you have to invest in what you need, because nowhere in that plan do you have an improvement in electronics at the border. You know our border is compromised, which is from smugglers, which is from terrorists. If you cared about this Serbia, fix this budget, don't let these officers of yours travel and remember that Kosovo and Metohija is a Serbian country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3010	The word has a National MP Goran Stefanovic, and then a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, there is indeed one of the essential laws in front of us today, right after the Constitution. As we said, the situation in which the state of Serbia came after a period of temporary financing, regulations, i.e. This is a moment where we really need to seriously consider this document, and the introduction of this control by the legislature, in any case, needs to be welcomed. What I wanted, above all, to welcome here, in terms of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's intention, is to further work on improving the standards of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thinking, in doing so, on maintaining the signed protocols between the unions of education, the health unions and the unions of certain institutions of culture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, in a certain part, of certain state bodies, or civil servants. In any case, these protocols will be continued and their realization is confirmed and contained in this draft budget, which is good. I wanted to check, and it's important for the standard of other citizens, especially citizens in southern Serbia, where I come from, for the Pcinian district, the Vranje municipality and all other municipalities of the Pcinj County, as one of the poorest districts in the Republic of Serbia, where there are a large number of unemployed people, a fact, and here in the debate, what is the amount of money in the name of transfers being transferred to municipalities, i.e. local communities and cities. The fact that it encouraged me, which suggests that the government intends to work to develop the rest of Serbia evenly in relation to Belgrade and Vojvodina, is that in 2006, as a transfer, it was intended to amount to 108,034,000 dinars, which was transferred and implemented in 2006, and in 2007, the amount was 2.5 times higher, so that in 2007, the budget that is today ahead of us, was designed and the transfer for the Vranje municipality amounted to 285,31,000 dinars. In any case, everything now in the Vranje municipality, as in other municipalities, whose resources, according to the data I've seen in the memorandum and protocol, have been increased at least twice, up to three times. So they should best implement these funds and provide, above all, a better infrastructure when we talk about southern Serbia and then work on some other plans, above all, in the field of employment. What is also good and what should be shown as a fact that is covered by this draft budget is that, within the agriculture ministry's budget, a really impressive amount of 14.5 billion dinars is foreseen. This is the amount of money, in addition to improving the living standards of people who are on the budget, who work in health, education and culture, will raise the standard of living for people living in the country, who are engaged in agriculture. There are also efforts by the Ministry of Agriculture to, through specific projects, point to our agricultural producers to those crops that are profitable, to cultures that can easily be sold, so that they can contribute themselves to making their standard of living higher, to pay for agriculture. The fact is that in Vranj we have "British-American Tobacco", as a serious firm, which under contract with the Republic of Serbia, with the Privatisation Agency, has an obligation to buy all tobacco from agricultural producers in the Pcinj County territory, according to classification and according to criteria and European standards, produced in the territory of the Pcinj County. It is under the contract to buy it in the amount of 50% of its production. At this point, he can't even fill 5% of his production capacity. I think, in that case, the Ministry of Agriculture will also work on this and that the tobacco plant subsidy will be significantly higher compared to other non-profitable cultures, which our people living in the country, farmers, are not professional enough to process, and are not professional enough to assess the situation on the market. My regret, as well as most of my fellow Members of Parliament, is that it has not been shown, in relation to the projected amount from the National Investment Plan and from capital investments, which are priorities, in which they will be determined. In any case, I expect the Ministry, i.e. The National Investment Plan Office and other ministries will consult local communities on the priorities needed and will jointly resolve what capital projects are and what is necessary for all local environments. What's most important for Vranje, as I pointed out from this pay phone, is that Vranj has a large number of workers who are really professionally qualified, first of all, I mean the workers of the textile industry, the leather industry. These are people who have lost their jobs in this period, and they have qualifications and knowledge and they want to work. Vranje municipality has submitted a project to the ministry related to the Bunusevic industrial zone, and I stress it as a priority of the ministry. I will advocate that the sooner this project takes place, because it is crucial for the Municipality of Vranje and for the Pcinj County. As the People's MP of the Democratic Party, I will vote for this budget, as I recommend to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3012	The word has a People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic and then a National MP Jelena Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3013	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, as well as other members of the SPS Parliament Club, I also find it really inappropriate to discuss five decisions in a session so quickly called this way on such extensive material, on six laws and, within the framework of the draft budget law, five decisions. It all looks to me like a mythic robber and a procurst rapist, who packed passengers in his bed for the purpose, but by finding each one a saw if they were longer than the bed, or by dragging them to his devices to be in the length of the bed. So I have the impression that this budget is party, or party, or according to the size of the ruling parties, and that it will meet political needs, above all, in favour of those environments where they rule and in local self-government. The budget of the state should represent the equality of all citizens, as it is the distribution of people's money. Also, donations are entitled to all people, all citizens, and do not belong particularly to some structure in power. It should therefore be possible to make budget allocations based on clearly defined instruments and criteria. Of course, these instruments and these distribution procedures exist and are formalized through individual laws, it's just a question of how these laws apply and who decides on such distribution. Those who are too powerful decide, and that's why it happens, when some ministers arrive in some environments, to say it lightly -- I'll give you ten million dinars, or -- I'll build you that and that object, as if it were his personal act and good will, and it's not about using people's money. If the government tends to be democratic, if it tends to be tolerated, if it tends to be equal to all citizens and towards all environments, if it insists on Serbia's regional development, because we have a great danger in Serbia, namely, the population of huge space and Serbia cannot be just Belgrade, but also some other centres, other regions, we have, even, the ministry dealing with the issue of regional development, then it must stop discrimination in what has been shared and in what has been distributed. I'm afraid the budget has not clearly defined this distribution and leaves the possibility of a subjective approach when spending these money. When it comes to the National Investment Fund, we have a high percentage of unrealised contracts that are concluded in certain environments, we also have cases that are implemented projects, but are not paid. Through the National Investment Fund, it is possible to subjectively access further projects. Through the Ministry Act and through the National Investment Fund, we have received individual ministers who seem to be gods, who can do anything to the people's money. Section 2 shows the financing of the President of the Republic. The explanation shows, behind the words -- the National Office, which stands as an instrument in the functioning of the President of the Republic, probably with his cabinet, that we have a donation from foreign countries and a donation from international organisations as part of additional revenues. However, these are indeed minor funds, of a total of 750,000 dinars, but it is important that there is that position. I am afraid that through this position we have a flow of more money than foreign countries and international organisations, and I would rather be that this important institution in Serbia's government is exclusively funded by people's couples than by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not by donations and other centres of power, which can, in a certain, crucial moment, make it a non-functional institution of the President of the Republic or such that it does not serve Serbia and citizens. It remains as one question, which I could ask through the Rules of Procedure, a question concerning the Mining Act. The law defines revenue fees, one to 5% for mineral raw materials, and Article 16a of this law says 50% of the funds collected, 50% of the funds entered the municipality's income, and 50% of the Republic of Serbia's income. I haven't seen, I'm allowing myself to be wrong, whether the revenue side of this budget is included in those compensations that are received on behalf of the use of mineral raw materials. I'm asking this for two reasons. First, if an answer is given -- find out where a certain item would increase, here's where it comes from; it's estimated by some people, about 70 or 80m euros. Secondly, I ask because I come from Petrovec to Mlava where the raw materials of construction material, a stone for asphalting across Serbia, are exploited, so that thousands of tons, even daily, are transported through roads, regional roads, which are collapsing, which are damaged due to the great burden. On the other hand, they're very badly maintained, so we've got damage. The second issue concerns funds, a health fund, where it is said that the new level, i.e. the planned growth of income in the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund, is based on the assumption that fiscal discipline will increase more significantly. Then, assuming higher levels than last year, the collection of health insurance contributions will be made to farmers' activities. The fact is that in Serbia, we do not have an enviable level of collection of these contributions, due to the poor economic situation and the power of workers and farmers in Serbia, due to neglected agriculture, due to unfair competition in the area of independent activities, where we have a large number of Chinese citizens who unfairly compete with our people and citizens who deal with these affairs. There are huge debts present. A large debt in a large number of independent workers and farmers prevents them from treating and using health insurance. They are required to pay the debt both for pension and disability insurance and for health insurance, to pay contributions to health insurance and contributions to PIO. Why would someone pay back for health insurance if they didn't use that insurance? So citizens who haven't paid for health insurance should be freed of that debt. By the way, they didn't even use it, and for retirement insurance they should pay if they want to use their rights tomorrow. Mr. Minister, this is a question that very often and every day asks a large number of citizens in all the environments, who are faced with this problem. If I have to formalize that question any other way, I will, but I think I've been very clear on this occasion. I'm done. I'd say the words used here are pretty transparent. I don't think so. In some parts he's very foggy. It leaves a wide range of space for a subjective approach and for showing great political power, which also affects political commitment and thus discrimination against the population on a political basis. I wish I was wrong. I would like the government to be fair to all its citizens, in all its environments, regardless of who is in power in local self-government. Live, so we'll have a chance to see what the practice will be. In the end, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia, or its MPs, will not vote for this budget and for these laws or for the financial plans that you have given here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3014	The People's Messenger Jelena Markovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3015	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for today's debate, which was quite different from the previous days. We stuck to almost all the topics, we heard very valid and quality budget exposures, and especially about its individual segments, whether we agree with them or not. I think today this assembly seems more dignified to the citizens who look at us than the previous days and thank you all for that. I want to talk about one segment of the budget as someone who's dealt with it, which is the social segment of the budget. The criticisms that emerged at the expense of this budget repeatedly reiterated that expenditures under this budget are 27.4% higher, but we all need to be aware of where these expenditures are coming from and where these funds are going. Most of these funds, right now, are going to social benefits. If we factor that out, 16% higher in this budget, compared to 2006, it goes to social contributions and most of it, exactly, for pension insurance. Now, as co-worker Komic, I want citizens who have asked us very simple questions and had very simple doubts during the temporary budgeting, whether they will have pensions, whether they will be provided for their growth -- to say that this budget predicted a safe payment of pensions, as well as their growth, three times quarterly by 5.83%, by 3.75% and 4.4%. It was also said here that this budget cannot be considered a social budget. But I'm going to deny that by the numbers, which are very clear and concrete. For childcare, 21 billion were allocated, for the Boring-Invalid -- 13 billion, for social protection -- 9 billion, for the student standard -- one billion, for the student standard -- about two, for sports scholarships -- 387 million, for refugees and displaced persons -- 810 million. I'm going to stop here because looking at the budget of the Refugee Commissioner, which is about 900 and a few million, I noticed that only 30 million refer to the construction of housing facilities for displaced persons and refugees. Knowing that the Strategy provides for the closure of collective centres and the provision of shelters for refugees and displaced persons, I ask the Minister to provide, in the future budget or if possible, for this to be resolved, for 30 million certainly are not satisfactory funds. The second thing I'm trying to say is, it's that second big giving, big budget spending, is about wages. There has been a lot of demagogy here, and we are obliged to clarify to the citizens what they are paying for, so that it is not understood again that senior MPs and state officials are using the budget to increase their incomes. So this is about retaining the financial stability of the state and having a responsible relationship with both unions and partners, and towards the citizens themselves. So, the new power is with a tendency, which is democratic, to honor all commitments, that it does not interrupt them by the very fact that it is new, collective agreements that have been signed continue to implement, and it is good that it continues to implement them, because they relate to the increase in wages in health, education and culture. It is difficult for anyone, regardless of the increase in expenditure in the budget, to say that this is unwarranted and unobstructed and that these categories of society should be forgotten. We should continue to increase their salary and build a state where pillars will be education and culture, not security services and police. In that sense, I want to say something else very important. The budget envisions 26 million for the Youth Fund. We have been having a big debate, since this fund means helping those who have already achieved their potential talents, have reached certain schools, have achieved good results. However, there are many poor children in Serbia, who can't even make it to college and enroll them, can't pay tuition, and we insisted that there is a different scholarship fund that could cover that social component. In this regard, another 150 million dinars were allocated, and I thank the finance minister for having the understanding of it, because these are the funds that are within the finance ministry. I hope that this very socially endangered layer will help them raise their student standard and get the opportunity to show off their talents. In the end, I don't want to owe you much talk here, as someone who has worked at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights has been told whether or not these funds are enough, I just want to tell you that the Service of Human and Minority Rights has never been in history since the establishment of the Ministry, it used to be a ministry, it was 2001, it didn't have a larger budget, which means that the national communities themselves will be located more funds for their activities. That's another commendation for those who created the budget. At the very end, if you look at numbers, one important thing. The largest budget, compared to all ministries, has the Ministry of Education, not, as once, the Ministry of Military or the Ministry of Police. The world's greatest forces have become what they are, precisely, thanks to investing in knowledge and education, thanks to railways, mail, printing and so forth, not to the military. I'm not diminishing the importance of the military and the police, the BIA, the CIA and everything else, but thank you for remembering that education and young people are, however, the priority of this society. Finally, although I should agree with everything written, I do not agree with the fact that the Lustration Commission has only 220 thousand at its disposal. I ask you, Minister, to think about it next year and that this commission can only work if it has funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3016	Thank you, too. I hope you're lost, the CIA isn't in Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3017	Mrs. Markovic didn't miss, BIA and the CIA in Serbia, it's almost the same. It's not complete yet, but it's almost true. (Jelena Markovic, from town: There was a metaphor. If it was a metaphor, I apologize. I volunteered to give a precise explanation of what was now the subject of argument here. Ms. or Mrs. Markovic, at the time you came to power, in Serbia every other student was on the budget, and every other co-financed. Now every sixth student in Serbia is on Serbia's budget, and five of their educations are self-financed. When you came to power, in Serbia, health insurance was free of charge for peasants, and now it's 18,000 dinars. When you came to power, in Serbia, the peasant pension was 371 liters of milk, and now it is 3,481 liters of milk. I support your insistence on what you sometimes call the concept of the social state, but that's all you have to say in the budget. You have to say that in the student education budget, it doesn't take 150 million dinars for scholarships, i.e., it should, but it needs a state system that will fund everyone, that everyone gets an equal chance, that every farmer can become an academic if he's smart and if he can get schooled, and not that there's an analytical principle and an elitist concept of education -- that only those who can pay for it can be educated, so we have a self-production of intelligence, and others don't have a chance of ever reaching academic education. I'm fantasizing. I'm dreaming about a country where one peasant will be able to become an academic again if it's clear enough and motivated enough. This system disables it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3018	The People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, and then Milos Simonovic, the MP of the people, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals, as you know, cannot vote and accept a budget like this. A detailed explanation has, on behalf of all of us, provided, clearly enough, by Jorgenka Tabaković, who has in a professional way discovered all the shortcomings of this draft budget and I will not deal with it. There's been interesting exposure here. At the very beginning, distinguished colleague Komic demonstrated linguistic knowledge. She told us one interesting thing, when a woman's name is a noun, then it doesn't sound significant enough and it doesn't have high value. Mrs. Comic, let me tell you a lady's name and you tell me if there's something more valuable than her and if more respect can cause it. It's a very short noun and it's called - mother. Tell me one of the names of the male race that is more magnificent, which not everyone will bow down to, so I can take off your hat. (Gordana Comić, from Place: Father. I'm not sure. It's about girls. Now I'm going to tell you one more thing. Come on now, exchange that phone book "mother" by gender and fall. You'll be able to fall into the fall of the lineage. I don't believe it. Linguistic knowledge is knowledge and we don't have to compete here. You have to compete in the budget. There are some nice things you said in your presentation, they're much better. We're passing the law, we've got a newly-compromised DOS government here in the image of the minister. On the first day there was also a culture minister, a top actor, acting out the government's interest and respect for Parliament. Tonight we lost an actor, left the minister alone on his scene, but the principle of the Assembly does not change, there is no answer for MPs to questions asked. It's probably that dog barking, the caravans coming through. We'll vote most of what we want. You talk, it's not that important to us. In most countries of the world, the start of the fiscal year coincides with the beginning of the calendar year. The minister knows very well. We can hardly follow the whole world. However, the English have an exception, with them the fiscal year begins on April 1st, if I'm not mistaken. It could be this newly-compromised DOS, European, power to introduce a new principle, that we start the fiscal year in June. Maybe it's even better when we want it. That would be far better and more appropriate. To go back to the budget itself. This cabbage that we've got, which is hard to read, where you have to take the pound to see the items, is a shame and shame for the promoter. I'm free to say it, this is an unsettled text. Here you have double pagination, written by hand in computer time. They can't even make pagination in a human way, and that's what we're given. How are we given? In a hidus way. We got this Friday night, when most of us weren't in Belgrade and we couldn't get the material. We got these materials, most of us, Monday morning, and we need to discuss the most important system law, the budget. It is the relationship of this authority to Parliament. Of course, nothing's unusual. We're used to it. It doesn't surprise us. We've got a closed debate, we've reunited a bunch of laws, along with the budget law. You have one more interesting thing. There was always a little space before, so you could hear the professional public. Now follow the media, no expert public. It's also interesting that for the first time this has been presented in an inappropriate way. Go to the Council of the Republic of Serbia website, look for this document, I have in my hand the document we received; this document cannot be found on the site, there is a whole section missing where the funds are, it's completely thrown out. So, no public, no transparency, no nothing. This unprincipled coalition, which always swears in Europe, behaves in one Bangladeshi way, that's a fact, and these stories and oaths, leave the stories, show your part that you really... Do you know what Germany's budget looks like, have you seen what the book of the US budget looks like? You should look at that, and then, at least a little bit, look up and it doesn't have to be all this. But I'm only going to talk about some of the problems I've managed to look into for the Department of Health and those health benefits. Please, on two pages, everything here is very small letters and in small fonts is written, something that is completely transparent, and you can't see from this budget where these funds will be directed. That's basically my grudge. Some have bid here, and said -- threem euros will be given to build a public health institute. It doesn't say anything here, how do you know that? This is non-transparent, and I'm interested in what is classified 511, which is called - buildings and construction buildings, and 512 - machine and equipment. There are large sums of a billion and some 900 and some thousands of dinars. Where it's going to go and what it's going to be spent on, you can't see it at all, and it's untransparent. When this classification is 511, you have for it, in Article 21 of this law, on page 75, I'll be free to read this to you to see how we serve things. Article 21 says, "The deployment and use of funds will take place in 2007 under a special act adopted by the government, on a proposal from the competent ministry, within the next sections." And then he picks up the divisions, so that on page 79 he can find the 27th - Ministry of Health, function 760, i.e. Economic classification 551, which is indicated here with a billion and something. It is said: "The non-financial assets financed from the funding for the realisation of the National Investment Plan amounting to 4.421,000,000. How is there four billion here, and it refers to a classification that has one billion? What are you giving us? Are you making us crazy? Mr. Minister, please explain. If you can't, let the one who got you into this explain it; please explain it immediately or the debate is pointless. If we're having a conversation with the deaf and if you want to and you can, then make it clear. We don't mind. But can it be all this messy, that on one side it says for that classification -- one billion and 100 thousand, and 20 pages behind it -- it's four billion? There's an even more interesting part. Some have welcomed the fact that the resources that go to the health care and the ministry have been increased. Look, they accidentally let it go, they lost their number of employees at the Ministry of Health. It is said that the number of health ministry employees in 2006 was 363 and is said to be 433 in 2007. That money's headed for the growth of an administrative giant and there's no such thing as a cheap government. If he doesn't hate you and if you have time, look further to the other ministries, there is an increase in the number of persons that will work everywhere. Citizens of Serbia, you are funding a mega-glomerated and inefficient government. Just look at those numbers, and you'll get it. I also have a few sentences to say about a piece called the Health Insurance Fund's financial plan. Oh, great. The funds that citizens deprive from their incomes go to this fund. In 2006, it was said that the fund was 118,545,474,000 dinars and is now due to amount to 143,656,742,000 dinars in 2007. That's 21 percent increase. I'm asking you, why are you raising this fund by 21 percent? Did gross national income rise by 21 percent? As far as I know, you said in that thirty-eight-minute exposure to yours, followed by a lot of sawdust, that seven percent, roughly, is that gross national income. Has the number of citizens who need a health care system been increased to serve or the economic reasons, perhaps, dictate? You said - increased wages. If we look at how much wages they grow, they grow to employees 7.5 percent. But there is another problem, for me far greater. I'll be free to quote this part of the plan, which says: staff expenditures at the Bureau are planned at the level of, so it doesn't matter how many millions of dinars, which represents an increase of 39.12%. Be careful, they increase the salaries of healthcare professionals by 7.5 percent, and those who work in this office, these people who are administration, who are still going to grow, they increase their salary by 39%. There goes that increase that someone was happy about, so he said they were raising a health money. No, they're not raising it for the benefit of the people, but for the sake of the administration's wages, clearly, partly and doctors. I don't mind, it's justified for healthcare professionals, not just because I'm a doctor, but we're not getting into that thing right now. You'll get even more scared when you see one other thing and what they say. Current repairs and maintenance include investments in business space, which are necessary due to long-term failure to invest in maintaining a business facility and improving the standard of work in a branch. Look, there's a planned amount of 689 million dinars. In order to make it clear to us, it was finally said to build a business space for the Directorate of the Institute. There's a brand-new office building going up. Do you know how much it costs, see how much it stands out? Now, there goes this increase of the health dinar -- in construction, in tenders, in corruption systemically. It became clear to everyone what was going on in health care. The Ministry of Health has grown into the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade; there they are dealing with so-called projects and tenders, and these tenders, even for health care, are being explored by the Ministry of Finance itself in the past period. We'll talk about it a lot later. Now, my citizens, that's exactly what I'm saying, look what's going on with the sick leave. Six billion will be allocated, and that's 13 percent reduction. We reduce funds by 13 percent for sick people's sick. Someone told you about the sickness of our pregnant women. It's a shame not to give our mothers a hundred percent sick leave. Now I'm going to do a dipression. That's where you took the computers and started removing the VAT. Take off VAT for baby equipment and baby food. Why don't you show that you care about this people instead of the interesting lobbys and the companies that paid you to do it so they can do better business and place their resources? If you're looking at how the Ministry of Health treats the distribution of primary health care funds, that's where 34 billion go, and in secondary and tertiary -- 51 billion. This is where you finance what's top-of-the-line, expensive medicine. What Mrs. Comic said and what she tried to say to a young colleague from another parliamentary group, how to preserve the lives of our women by preventing it, is primary protection. It just needs to be applied what was applied, what gynecologists know, and what the whole world knows -- for three years, that a woman has one test -- "Papanicolau", as well as a doctor's examination, instead of the funds being transferred to high medicine. It's the Ministry's relationship to this problem. One more, and I'll end up with that, because there are a lot of my colleagues who have to talk. There'll be a chance, we'll talk later. In the end, imagine, there are extra-standard services in this report. Someone was complaining that we had a little bit of out-of-the-way health care. That's not true anymore. In Serbia, no one knows exactly how much is allocated to health care, it is believed to be seven percent of gross national income, but that is not true. The report said 21 billion were taken directly from the citizens' pockets for all health institutions in Serbia, and so on. non-standard services. It's untaxed and it goes into pockets, probably, in part, in very cloudy transactions and shops. So that's 21 billion. Just remember what the World Health Bank and its director in Belgrade, Caroline Junger, said about corruption, that petty, direct -- you have to pay birth, you have to pay to give you epidural anesthesia, that goes from 2 to 4 gross national incomes. Today, 14% of gross national income is thought to have to be paid, one way or another, and that's true. That it is true to bear witness to a new project, a secret, which was given to the Finnish Advisory House, which speaks of the need to monitor the financing of health care, because in this country neither knows who drinks nor who pays. Therefore, this budget is one embarrassment and shame. This budget is not in the citizens' interest. This budget is in the interest of political elites, and it's corrupt political elites.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3020	The word has a folk MP Milos Simonovic, and then a National MP, Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3021	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have started today, and I think we will end up in a much more tolerated atmosphere than in previous days. I think it's a good direction, in which this assembly needs to continue to work, because, indeed, we have a lot of work to do, a lot of laws to pass. I think we must go into some normal and rational frameworks, because the people of Serbia are asking us to return the way MPs behave in this House. Today, the most important document that the Serbian Parliament adopts every year is in front of us, which defines how the defence and original revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget will be spent in one fiscal year. What I can, at first, express is the satisfaction of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and mine personally because this budget is real. That the budget is real and balanced, shows objections from opposition MPs, which in principle did not apply in any way to these sources of revenue proposed by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic. There are a lot of basic things that can be highlighted in this draft budget law. I wouldn't talk about those things. I think Miss Markovic has been very reasonable to answer some demagogue claims from this pay phone on the issue of education and the social part of this budget. I think it's very important, and that should be pointed out, that the development part of the budget will be spent by the end of the year. I think it is the biggest challenge facing the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, as well as the 2008 draft budget. What does that mean? As we spend these funds from the budget, from the way and criteria by which certain ministries, in their divisions, will spend money, it will depend on how much citizens in all parts of Serbia will feel better after this fiscal year. I must say that MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, therefore, from the part of Serbia south of Belgrade, believe it is the primary and supreme national interest to reduce the regional differences that exist in Serbia. I will point out to you only some information, that the relationship between the most developed district, or the city of Belgrade, and the most underdeveloped district, which is also the last-place development power index - 1 to 7, and that district is the Jablani County. [[Applause]] The relationship between the most developed municipality in Serbia and the most underdeveloped municipality in Serbia is 1 to 15. I think it is the fundamental national interest of this government, not only in this year, but throughout the mandate, to reduce these regional differences. It's not just the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, it's the whole government. Because, according to how certain ministries will spend money, depends on what the standard of living will be in certain regions. I will tell you that the southern and east of Serbia, in terms of infrastructure issues, are the most underdeveloped areas in Serbia. Eastern Serbia is the number of telecoms and telephone connections in the last place in Serbia; only 19 per cent of the population has a telephone in eastern Serbia. To develop certain parts of Serbia, to attract foreign investment, you need to provide infrastructure. It is the primary task of all, both these governments and all ministries, to provide equal opportunities for all Serbian citizens to live in this country in the coming period. The second thing that should also be pointed out is that the government of the Republic of Serbia quickly renewed negotiations with the European Union within a full month. It is a very important and positive thing for Serbian citizens. However, the government's task is for all Serbian citizens and all regions of Serbia to enter the European Union over a number of years. In order for this to happen, we need to reduce these regional differences that exist, we need to allow in this country Serbia to all have equal opportunities, to have the opportunity to reach certain institutions. Access to institutions should be equal, whether someone lives in Ruma, or lives in Zajecar, or lives in Lebanon, or in another small municipality in the south or in the east of Serbia, of course, and in autonomy. What else do the negotiations bring with the European Union and the recent signing of an association agreement and the approximation of the European Union? This is the possibility that the state of Serbia, municipalities in Serbia, cities, provinces, have access to the European Union funds. In order for all municipalities and cities in Serbia to be included in funds and to be able to compete for certain European Union funds, it is necessary to pass a law on equal regional development very quickly, to pass laws on local self-government and to pass those acts that will allow certain economic autonomy both outside Vojvodina and Belgrade. It is a national interest. Because, without economic equality, ladies and gentlemen MPs, there is no national equality. It's a fact that we all have to agree on, regardless of which party we come from and whether we voted in opposition today. For this reason, today I call on all MPs to work actively in the coming period, to allow all Serbian citizens equal access to institutions, regardless of whether they come from Nis, from where I come from, or from another environment, from Vojvodina, which is fighting for its autonomy and for its rights. I ask you to do everything that the other citizens of Serbia have equal rights and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3022	The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3023	Dear People's Representatives, I'm advertising the violation of these two members, 101th and 104th, and that might be a violation of the right to replication. Namely, my predecessor was free to say that we are back to a quality debate and said we are not engaged in demagogy. That's what you said and you can check it out. I've been paying good attention, and I've listened to every sentence of yours. I assume you know what demagogy means. I'm not a political leader. So I can hardly be the one causing the demagogue scenes and scenes here. Let me just remind you that demagogy is a challenge, right, one ecstasy in voters, inappropriate means. For everything I've said, I've given the data and the number. As I told you nicely about these funds, here, I'll now tell you one more piece of information. Say, dental service, which you all pay more or less out of your pocket. That's my argument, and now you're determining that it's demagogy, that it's causing a hysterical reaction to the crowd. No one here has acted hysterically, and our citizens are not prone to these manipulations either. You have the dental service, to return to facts, dear colleagues, in 2006 51 billion, is now foreseen 67 billion in this proposal. You know what happened to the dental service? Half of them were fired. Citizens pay for everything, only children are free to not pay. Now, in this year, you're raising it, you know, by 47%. A colleague, it's a crime and a robbery. You call it what you want, and I call it a Serbian name, if you want English "rabs," right? Maybe that expression is more pleasant to you, maybe you wouldn't react, so you're going to say, that's okay. Please, we don't deal with demagogy here, we have facts here. For everything I've said, I can give you material proof, but there's no time. What kind of serious business do you do, newly-compromised government? Do you know that there is a Law here on the State Audit Institute, since 2005-2006, and that it is a duty to respect it? Where's the respect? You're just talking about Europe. You're only talking about the rule of law. You're destroying the rule of law and Europe. That's the point, and then you honor us for being destroyers. No, my dear fellow, we are trying to, in the interest of this people, put this evil away, so that we are really working on the principles of the real state and of what you are trying to do, which you see is good in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3024	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3025	I followed, my colleague Momchilov, your brilliant exposure and later listened to a colleague from the Democratic Party. I just wanted to say something in favour of your presentation and the arguments you made. You are also known as a man who, mostly, takes care of, along with Dr. Poscuric and the other doctors in our parliamentary group, about the state of health in our country. It is not a problem in regionalisation, which will never institutionally happen, a respected colleague, in Serbia, because the way of establishing local self-government cities and municipalities and territorial circles is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So that's some political story about autonomy. How can people make up things now and make up all kinds of cards and structures in their heads? It's all nonsense and in the right sense of words can never happen. However, the problem is not only what Dr. Paja Momchilov said, in the lack of funds and in the fact that our clinical centres are in an ever worse position, i.e. that the Ministry of Health does not take equal care of hospitals and clinical centres in our country. The biggest problem this year, and it will only escalate as time moves along, and it needs the responsible authorities to take care of it, is that once a reckless decision, though, along with the period of one year since 1 January 2007, you have served certain health institutions to units of local self-government. Now I have to tell you, I suppose Nis is similar to what it looks like in Kragujevac. The city is over-indebted. The total interest debt is between 14.5m and 15m euros. So the overindebted city should now take care, according to the founding acts and statutes that have already been adopted, of the appointment of very poor staff in these health institutions, and of primary health care, and of dentistry, and of the pharmacy, and of the home of health. It is now during the phase of the constitution, i.e. rounding up the medical work, because we are a working city. Medical work, which was part of the Zastava group and the company "Philip Kljajic", has a long tradition and will now be under the city's authority. The question arises why has the state left so recklessly, literally, in a state of care so many health institutions in our country? Is it sufficient that these and such transfer funds, which come to municipalities and cities, can cover that primary health care when you have such power? Even if the state is ideal, and you're a terriblely bad government, even the radical government helps local self-government, where, for example, you're combined in such a block and the consolidation of power in power, it's impossible because the law as a law is bad. So it was supposed to be a long-term process and the question is whether such a bite on itself should have taken over local self-government. The only way is for you to leave one city, one municipality, to develop it, as is not the case in many cities and municipalities in Serbia, so that they can take on so much burden and responsibility. It's not just that frame, it's not the equipment, it's not the buildings where these facilities are going to be formed, it's simply that it's not the Minister who cares about these problems. Will he, to speak of Prime Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, come to the phone, or will he not contact the president of the municipality about these problems, that's all debateable, you know. He will say that it is no longer in his jurisdiction, that he will not solve these problems, and most of all, except in municipalities where radicals are in power, although not even there are completed those acts of establishment, the incompetent presidents of local self-government, who have assigned the city, em very badly, the worst personnel are putting in these newly formed local health institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3026	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3027	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, several times in the course of this two-day debate has been said, in a direct or indirect manner, that the debate on the budget, in fact, and the debate, in a certain way, on the confidence of the government, its policy, the debate that provides more information than the pledoise of the prime minister, which has been presented there, so what will be in the course of one year, what will be the fate of the citizens of Serbia within this calendar year that is ahead of us, and already half a year has passed, i.e. solved by different overrides. I suppose it is clear to you that the budget, created in every normal and civilized state, should be so drawn up as to provide significant security, first of all, economic security and, indirectly, other types of security to the citizens. I am not quite sure of a budget that does not have a strategically clearly defined macroeconomic policy, so one stable, uninterrupted growth, reaching, respected gross national income, which has no relatively stable price, a clearly open market, which does not have a clearly defined monetary policy, but rather a policy of monetary rescue by intervention measures, some interventions on the free market, which, just last year alone, cost the state about 360m euros, or named - the level of mandatory reserves. All of these are ways of temporary problem solving, of fighting to bring things into order and to give citizens the impression of a monetary stability. Foreign fiscal policy, which must also be indirectly due to sound budgetary solutions. We see that there are palitative solutions, which should be given to a certain segment of citizenship, say, here, the state makes, it gives you a cheaper computer, or this, or that, or the components of a computer. When the computer breaks down, in fact, everything goes away, there's nothing left, they're monocomponents. There's no special repairs here. So, pure cosmetics. Where social intervention could be more intervened, not to say again, but to those remarks, it did not come out. So the price of gas is rising, which will hit those people who found a way to drive easier and cheaper. So that wasn't the solution. If raising the price of gas, excises, were a way of supplementing the budget, then it's not much of a compliment to the government. If only the Ministry of Finance could replace something he lacked, then it's proof that everything else was exhausted and that these cosmetic measures were supposed to be one palatable that would convince the citizens that it was good. Today in Serbia, radicals are not in power, they have not created a statistical yearbook that says they believe that in Serbia, in 2006, they work, they work -- they are considered because no one yet has the right data on employees. How much money did it go to, by the way, say, projects to upgrade the employment service? How much did those who came from here and those who gave money for such a thing, and for a computer, for organising a shift of directors? We still don't know how many employees it is in Serbia. Make it about two million employees, let's be broad-minded. These two million employees support more than a million who are children, who need preschool education, so basic education, then education, high school, primary and higher. It's more than a million people according to the 2006 statistics. It should add pensions for a million, sure, and some pensioners, 300,000 people with special needs, two million people who work, whose fiscal obligations are over their heads. So it's obvious that the exhausted state that has no solution for its financial transactions and combinations is how to increase employment and productivity in a concrete and direct way, but by loans and loans, not to remind myself that external debts are 90 billion, etc., to improve internal miles. It's one survival mechanism, a bridge, so this budget looks like already seen budgets, from before, in line with the expected inflation rate, the increase in gross national income and other measures used to lead things to a somewhat decent appearance. I join the criticisms of not a small number of those who came to the budget on Monday, so yesterday. It is impossible to come from the inside and take the paper to read, and only a dozen pages could be found on the Internet on Sunday, a complete display could not be opened. It's really not fair, when it comes to something that you yourself have given twice the time of debate. But we split up, so everyone took some segments to analyze, so we compensated for that lack of time, but really, there's no need for that. It's too serious, it's too rare, just once a year and once, later, intervention, if you'll allow it, on the agenda. I don't know why it took that way to deliver the text at four or five in the afternoon, on Fridays. You didn't think anyone would come from the inside to open the assembly. But anyway, when that's the case, I'm going to limit myself to a small number of questions I have to ask here about how defined the positions are, whose values I'm not going to enter, the ministries of education, science, health. Is what is given, to an extent that is different from last year, enough or not, will be shown if the budget report ever comes, so we see how the money is spent and spent on what it is. But there's always one fantazmagorical item, or, perhaps, three of them, for which you can't figure out what they are. Some end up in dubiosis and allow for the level of organisation of these ministries and their subordinate institutions, by vertical means, of mafia and criminal activities. Our country is currently marked by various criminal affairs. The legal processes are also "naphtha", and "cigarette", and "drumska", and whatever mafia you want. So wherever it is, the mafia structures are found and this government is processing it, and it should process it, but it should go all the way. So, never to stand on it, at any political door. At the level of what can be expected to happen to individual ministries, we are particularly concerned about those ministries run by ministers who have been at the same post for years or years. We're really pretty surprised you didn't have a better candidate than you did from G17, but this isn't the government's choice, for the Minister of Health. Let's get out of this. The ministry provides for what these three items are, which are a potential source of corruption, money-mothering, or some money-turning, where you can't trace it. That's 5.4 million times in contracts of 113 million and specialized contracts of four billion. You will find this on page 37, or 161. When you want to read what they've given as an explanation, something will seem acceptable to you, that it's possible, that it can pass, but you'll get to some... I'm sorry, I said science, I'm sorry. All right, anyway, speaking of science, I'm just saying that the specialized services that are provided here work, in some sense, logically, if that's enough to decontaminate the terrain, remove the consequences of the bombing, and afford anything else for the Ministry of Science, which has the most modest means. The Ministry of Science got as much money here as when you put these three tariffs together, for this whole budget, twice as much. So, I wouldn't have any particular objections here. I don't understand what's going to happen to what we're going to get when we get into those re-credit funds, which we're going to get now at the Association Office and your accession procedure. The Minister will probably come and tell us what they agreed there and under what conditions we will be able to apply for scientific research projects. For the Ministry of Health, here, specialized services, a billion 161 million. Watch what's been described. Probably that whoever was reading this shouldn't have written it consciously. These are the health care costs of persons who are given the safety measure of mandatory psychiatric care and treatment, mandatory treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts, as well as the health care of foreigners. A billion dollars and a few dinars for that. It's like they're being treated in special institutions, like they don't belong to a health care system, and all of them don't belong to competent ministries, it's huge money. How many of them need psychiatric skills in Serbia? It's known what kind of crimes, etc. It's contracts, it's arranged, someone gets a gig, takes money, and who knows what kind of fictitious contracts they can be. I mean, 50 of 'em can hang on to one case and take the money. It's huge money, a billion and 161 million. Divide by 80 and see how much it's in euros; these are incredible sums. When you look at, let's say, for the Ministry of Education, which so far is rich in good income, but also items that went on trips, contracts, specialized contracts, that's one and a half billion. When you look at, say, funds for student standard or standard of students, these are hundreds of millions that are set aside for the measures that will be implemented by the Department of Health Services, to take a wipe, to take this, to take that. You know, unfortunately, in our primary health care, even pregnant women are directed to pay for the wipe. That's 600 to 800, 1,000 dinars. That's what it costs. So when someone doesn't want to wait for a prescription, they go and do it, extremely commercially, because they won't bother anymore. Why would it cost hundreds of millions in an organized, broadband action, even if it didn't need anything at all? I'll read it. Student standard - 337 million. Let's say, the Money Coin, for printing student food stamps and hygienic-sanitary surveillance. Look, the inspector has surveillance when you call him and he's legally required to come within a certain period of time. Do you know how it comes? He takes a few swabs, walks around the container, passes the kitchen, dining room, wet knots. Watch out, 337 million dinars. What's the probability of you making 50 fictitious contracts with the director? The director and the minister, they make a deal, they split up. See what the directors of larger hospitals are driving in which hips are made, prosthetics. Colored car picks, 60, 80 million euros. Purple car, orange. God forbid, they're normal to wonder. It's a crime, the mob took over. It's taking money out of your hands, it's coming across the line. But, look, now you have one budget that allows that, too. So someone else has to settle down, go for verticals. Bored people to participate in tenders with the minister, to negotiate a tender. After a good tender, the director of a major clinical center can buy an apartment right away. Ask around how the directors of the center live, where their apartments are. Ask around. I'm not going to do anything, I'm just suggesting, so if you're not informed, take a little interest in what the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are telling you. That extension, that thread that connects, can often be found through this. I'm not experienced enough to deal with the facts of this kind, but this is common and can be found in any local self-government - a mechanism of reconciliation and documentation of those who cooperate with the authorities. Why would that be, this model of behavior, which is somehow prescribed, transform the code, not to give us the suspicion that it is and when it comes to the ministries? Here, to read just another one of those items, that I no longer take time for colleagues to speak -- specialized services, student standard -- 103m euros. Belgrade Students' Protection Institute, for conducting hygiene-sanitary supervision at student standard institutions -- 104m euros. Look, it's dizzy prices, it's amazing stuff. That would explain the detailed analysis of what you suggested. So, to conclude, last year there was a bribery in the number of employees of 1.3%, so employees are less than expected. If this year's program is to be 1% increase in employment, based on us already several times-based mechanisms, we are not so sure that this figure will finally be realized, that the number of employees will be higher. Where the pay will rise, where you predicted, to detail, the way the pay increases, we welcome it. Whenever you can, raise your salaries to the employees in education, in health care, because that's where you're supposed to increase, the wolf's great burden. However, I am afraid that it is still consensual to those who could create a kind of social unrest and a sort of rebellion, block the work, draw attention to the people. If you count like that, the average quality of life in Serbia will not improve, the poor will be as many, if not more. It says what the measures and effects of this budget are that, well, it starts out the way it is this semester. Surely, they will suffer changes in the budget, which, essentially, is no different from the previous one for praise or correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3028	The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica, then the People's Messenger Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3029	Dear People's MPs, first of all, as a lawyer, I can say in the beginning that, indeed, this draft budget law is anti-constitutional, so it is contrary to the Constitution and to many laws, to the Law on the Budgetary System and, in general, to the rule of law of the country. The budget on the macroeconomic plan, as proposed, will not lead to stability or economic growth, and will not reduce public spending, and thus will not ensure economic growth and the stability of public finances. This is the claim of all known economists. The proposed budget will not affect the reduction of the balance of payments deficits, thus not allowing the country's macroeconomic stability. It is not developmental and cannot affect rapid economic growth, it is based on export growth, it is consumer, and it is seen by functions and divisions where the salaries and other staff expenditures go hugely, over 51%. It is not even social, which is also seen from almost all sections and functions, and this is seen by the fact that the allocations for social incomes are minimal. Budget is not a developmental one, and I would now say a nice Serbian word, which you have long forgotten and that would be appropriate for this budget, i.e. It's not life-saving, and it's seen from almost every function of this kind of projected, nakarada budget. Huge funds, respected Serbian citizens, are being allocated needlessly to travel. I will only, for the sake of illustrations, draw attention to some trips for the citizens of Serbia. For example, in the General Secretariat of the Government, 69 million dinars stand out, leaving for material amounting to 3,980,000 dinars. The cost of travel to the Office for Media Cooperation is 2,630,000 dinars, and 3 million dinars go to the material. Respected citizens of Serbia, 7 million dinars have been allocated for the travel expenses of the European Union's Office of Association Office, and over half a million for office materials. The Staff Management Service is leaving, too, large funds; more than half a million travellers, 600,000 dinars, and contracted services -- 33,500,000 dinars. I believe they don't know either, and I don't think anyone else alive knows what those contracts are and who that money's gonna go to. Dear citizens, for the travel expenses of the Minority Rights Service, you will have to allocate 3,500,000 dinars, and from this service - for donations to NGOs, these are among other things "women in black", you will have to allocate 11 million dinars. For the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, respected citizens, although he is currently not working, you will have to single out 74,587,000 dinars. Only for wages goes 60,489,000 dinars, and for travel costs, you will have to allocate more than half a million, 600 thousand dinars. You will have to pay millions of dinars for the expenses of the Supreme Court's travels, and for their office materials you will have to allocate two million dinars. Dear citizens of Serbia, for travel expenses for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, this is the Bruno and the rest of the world, you will have to allocate 1,200,000 dinars more than for the Supreme Court of Serbia, and for services under contract, you will have to pay them 1,750,000 dinars for the material - 1,975,000 dinars. Enormous travel costs are foreseen in all ministries, and even in the Student Standard Service. For the travel costs of the President of the Republic, Serbian citizens will have to allocate 42,500,000 dinars, and for his services under contract they will have to allocate 16,200,000 dinars. Huge travel funds are also allocated to administrative districts in Serbia and range from half a million to 10 million, depending on the size of the district. For travel costs to the Ministry of Defence, Serbian citizens will have to allocate a billion and 520,000 dinars, while military pensioners are social cases. All of this confirms that the budget, Mr. Minister, is not thriftful, that you have deeply dragged your fingers into the almost empty pockets of our citizens. That is why the budget, as a bad one, will not and cannot be supported by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3030	The word is made by MP Zoran Despotovic, and then by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is known that budgeting is one of the most important issues for this assembly. The budget in no country, nor in Serbia, is easy to bring. It takes a lot, and it doesn't always have enough resources. However, I think that for some purposes, funds not foreseen by the 2007 draft budget must be provided. I will not say and repeat what the SRS MPs have said so far, in terms of the lack of this proposal and making the right proposals to bring about a better budget for the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to look at and make proposals on the provision of funds for the construction of certain border crossings, customs services at border crossings, and to provide certain controls at those points relating to health and other supervision in the introduction, or imports of goods into Serbia. Three customs crossings were set at the time of the separation of Montenegro, and before that. It is Mehov Kršh near Rozaj, then Gostun between the White Field and the Prepolje, at Brodarev, and of course the Apple, between Pljevlja and Prepolje. It is just amazing that the apple border police station and customs are located 5km from the border crossing with Montenegro, while, on the other hand, Montenegrin services are located along the border. Due to this situation, major harassment and damage are suffered by citizens of the municipality of Prepolje, southwestern Serbia and in general by Serbia travelling to Montenegro or through this crossing, traffic is being done by goods. I will list the facts of daily harassment of citizens, both apples and other villages gravitating along the border crossing with Montenegro. When going to their estates, they have to wait in line for control like they're smugglers, like they're going to smuggle both tractor and reaper and motor saw. On the other hand, the police and customs checkpoint in the centre of the tourist town of Apple is causing serious discomfort among all guests and is an antipropaganda of tourism development. Imagine what it would be like to have such a or similar customs crossing done on Zlatibor. Or maybe someone thinks Serbia is only up to Zlatibor? I mean the ruling coalition. Unfortunately, it's not, it's still 80km from the customs crossing with Montenegro. Citizens have repeatedly asked for this issue to be resolved and for this point to really move near the border. They even threatened to block this border crossing. Representatives of the Prepolje municipality have tried with representatives of the government, but quite softly and softly, to resolve this issue. They explained at the congregation that the government had answered that there was no means to provide electricity, water, and the like. It's simple, a man wonders if this is possible and if this is a serious response from the government. There is another, very serious, problem related to this border crossing, where certain resources need to be provided in order to carry out the traffic of goods uninterrupted. In fact, no phytosanitary control has been provided at the border crossing of the apple. For example, when importing goods from the northern part of Montenegro, it cannot go directly from Pljevlja, via Apple, towards Prepolje, where it is 34km away, but it has to go round the way, through Pavino Polje and Belje, where the distance is about 150km, although the jet road is in poor condition, is not done, so that it is difficult to carry out goods traffic, i.e. in the winter period, through Mojkovec and the White Field, where the distance is 190 to 208km, depending on where it travels, via Gostun, and to carry out a phytosanitary inspection at that customs crossing. It is not negligible to point out that in this tourist season traffic on the master's road to Gostun is being stifled anyway, where the customs crossing with Montenegro is, by the way. How to explain that a large amount of construction imported from Bosnia and Herzegovina and northern Montenegro must cross such a detour and so much economic damage suffers Serbia. For all of this, there are compelling reasons, and I suggest that this budget be provided with funds for the emergency detachment of the checkpoint from the center of the apple and access to the construction of a border and customs checkpoint along the direct border with Montenegro, not within five kilometers of the distance, as so far. It is also necessary to provide means to perform both phytosanitary and other examinations, as regulated at other border crossings. I have not submitted a concrete amendment, because the Ministry of Finance's resources are needed here -- for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as for the Ministry of Police. I expect, while this debate continues, that the government will increase its funds for these purposes by its amendments and resolve this urgent issue regarding the wider area, which is important for all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3032	The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vlad Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3033	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have already heard from my colleagues, the SRS will not vote for this draft budget, but not only because we are an opposition party and we want to check in this way how much the government has to support its monetary policy in this assembly home, but, above all, that the draft budget is extremely bad, which puts the Serbian economy's perspective at risk in the coming period. The Serbian Radical Party expected the government to come out with a restrictive fiscal budget, to run a restrictive monetary policy in the coming period and, in any case, to make sure that the tax capacity of citizens and businesses is around 38% to 40% of gross domestic product, and you yourself said in your statements that it was consolidated by this draft budget somewhere around 50% of gross domestic product. The 10% or 12% difference, in any case, burdens the citizens and the economy of Serbia, which will mean further indifference, further borrowing of citizens and the economy of Serbia, all leading to further poverty in Serbia, Serbia's economy and Serbian society. Restrictive fiscal policy must be conducted in the coming period, above all, because the level of investment for the real sector, in the economy, is very low in Serbia today. Compared to other transition countries, which invest about 30% to 35% of gross national income, the percentage is estimated to be around 20%, which best suggests Serbia's lagging behind in its environment, other transition countries. Simply put, within a year, Serbia invests in its industry as much as the surrounding countries invest in six months, leading inevitably to Serbia's lagging behind, when it comes to economic development. I think this draft budget meant the government to speed up demand restrictions, and we had too much aggregate demand in the previous period, of course, because we had privatisation revenues, because we had one serious expansion, part of it, and due to the growth of wages. The government had to point out by its example to help monetary policy in a future period, as monetary policy, or NBS, has suffered a huge burden to curb inflation in the previous period. All the professional public also resented the previous government because the policy did not support monetary policy and did not help to avoid going to this size of a dinar appraisal, which is obviously too large and is the main cause of the pores and imports and the large deficit of the balance of payments. That is the basic reason why the government was expected to propose a restrictive fiscal policy. With this balance of payments deficit, which has been recorded years ago, we will soon be in a situation where we have a serious economic crisis. The amount we have is too small, both qualitatively and quantitatively not suited to the Serbian economy -- exports of about six billion euros, with an external trade deficit of six or seven billion euros, and this year could be close to eight billion euros. I don't think we should have gone into this kind of monetary policy, that's the opinion of the SRS. It is an irresponsible policy of the Serbian government, which unfortunately has again succumbed to the blackmails of individual ministers, which has continued politics since 2000, therefore, the ministries of individual political parties, which is inevitably reflected in over-public spending on Serbia at the moment. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the National Investment Plan. It does not correspond to one market economy, it represents internationalism, it means that the government becomes an enterprise, it means giving up the basic principles of market economy, under which the state regulates market conditions, but does not appear as an arbitration or partner. It is obvious that the National Investment Plan has been established and designed in the context of some election campaign, which is undoubtedly ahead of us, in the context of the presidential campaign. The national investment plan in this area is five times larger than the one the previous government had pre-elections, which amounted to about nine billion dinars, and the proposal is 44, so it's almost five times larger. It's obvious that you've either been scared of previous elections or that it's important for you to drop the ratings during the previous months, so you're counting on a national investment plan like this to win the presidential election that awaits us at the end of the year. In any case, I would end up with this and leave as much time as possible for my colleagues, I would ask you to reconsider once again the need for this expansion budget of the Republic government and not support it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3034	Thank you. The word is by MP Vlado Sekulic, and then by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3035	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, considering the weather, I'll begin a little faster. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is starting with a deficit, seeking to show that the government has not damaged citizens and the economy, that it has not made a surplus through overtake from citizens or from businesses. The first draft of Mr Kostunica's budget began with a surplus, so I guess the new experts in the government figured out how to show that guardians and protectors of Serbia's citizens' interests. As far as the government is concerned, it has established a budget through three points, which is macroeconomic stability, the dynamics of growth and employment and the standards of citizens. It seems more like a propaganda sphere ahead of the election. They only lack one more point, given the exposure of many colleagues and colleagues from the DSS, only if they had put a fourth point -- one computer per capita of the Republic of Serbia, and they would have peace in the Republic of Serbia and some perspective for citizens. It is said that macroeconomic developments over the past period can be seen as favourable, except for high growth in the external trade deficit. The growth of the foreign trade deficit during the first four months of 2007 was generated by fiscal expansion in the fourth quarter of 2006, and then by the accelerated growth of earnings led by growth in the public sector. It's total cohesion. It is said, first of all, that everything is fine, the macroeconomic policy has gone very well, and suddenly there is an external trade deficit. Then it can't be all ideal, it's known that it can't be said that it was an extremely good macroeconomic movement in the past. If there is a deficit on the foreign trade side, then it is not such a great situation, since it is known how much more Serbia imports and so little exports. Otherwise, you know how to reduce the foreign trade deficit, to export more than can be imported. Given our economy, which you've been leading since 2001, to the state of business, that even this little business that's been doing in the past, before you come to power, is no longer working, given how you privatized all other companies and not taking care of privatisation, I don't see what gives you the optimism that you're going to raise your exports to some normal sphere, so you can say that there's going to be a surplus in the foreign trade. To reduce the external trade deficit, it is not enough to project in the budget that export growth will be planned by 26.8%. The increase in import growth is 23.7%. These are your beautiful wishes and good assumptions that this time exports will be bigger than imports. Realising Serbia's economy, it cannot be strengthened, nor can our products be competitive in Europe and the world, given that companies that can do something in the economy are being systematically and systematically destroyed, so as to sell and privatise for cheap money. This little left over from the Serbian economy, that's what you expect, through this privatisation, as you have announced, one partial and another whole privatisation, to replace something that could reduce our public debt. Our public debt is nine million euros and that is some information that is being operated on. What DS colleagues said, that it's not a big debt, it's a bit of a non-serious finding. For Serbia, with those capacities and economic development and the gross social product of 5.9% annually, this is an extremely large debt. Anyone who understands a little about these things that I'm talking about knows that if our contribution to Serbia is a social product, above 7%, we're solvable and we can pay back, because we're reprogramming debts. Anything below 7% is brought into debt crisis, which can expect us very quickly, perhaps, even during this year; if not this year, then next year we will certainly fall into debt crisis. Let me just put it short so my colleagues can talk. Just more about this privatisation part. Continuing restructuring and privatisation of social enterprises, banks, insurance companies, partial privatisation of EPS, NIS and local public enterprises, it is likely only to be respected from the budget. The only sector you love, these are the privatisations, and now you will sell both EPS and NIS and public enterprises, and who will ultimately be the victim of privatisation. When EPS is sold, NIS, and you replace some funds in the budget and to repay public debt, the only victims of these privatisations and transitions will be workers employed by EPS and NIS. I expect that there will be a very fast budget rebalance, because this is an inflation budget, because the projected inflation is 6.6% and the gross social product is 5.9%. It's already a hint that we won't have a peaceful year in terms of economics. That part I remember from the presentation -- about the national program and computers -- I get it like this -- Serbia, be still, and every citizen will get one computer, each will have one computer in the house, which you have long paid for. That's what this budget comes down to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3036	The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and then a National MP, Radoslav Jevremovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are used to it, when Mr Dinkic served as finance minister, that after four or five questions, the minister would come out for a pay phone and answer those questions, which were asked in the meantime. Today's minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, sits and shuts up all the time, seems to have decided to defend himself with silence. I will start with a member of the 1st of this budget, although we have very little time, and there are many speakers from the SRS Parliamentary Group. Looks like we're the only ones wasting our time. While Mr Dinkic was making a budget, there were 15, 30 billion surpluses, and then Kostunica's budget proposal came out, so there were no surpluses or deficits, just as much as needed. Here comes Minister Cvetkovic, deficit 13 billion 676 million. It's said that the statistics of our Dick, which he imagines, paints it. Now I'm wondering, where are you going to make up for these 13 billion, given that the total revenue from the budget is 581 billion and the expenditures are 595 billion? This means that we will spend 13 billion this year more than we will collect from taxes, excises and everything else, how much Serbia's citizens will pay through taxes, excise taxes and all other taxes. Just to remind Serbian citizens, tax revenues are 517 billion, citizen income tax - 61 billion, corporate tax - 27 billion, value added tax - 270 billion, country value added tax - 84, the rest, value added tax. This shows something else, that we import much more than we produce what is spent in Serbia, it is 180 billion. Accize, thank God, and that's a way to peel off the skin of Serbian citizens, 98 billion, excise on oil derivatives -- 50 billion, excise on tobacco and reprocessing -- 37 billion, other excises, I'm just curious about what other excises are, but I can see that's 10 billion. It is clear that you are ready to peel your skin or until the citizens fall or catch up with what you have planned. I wouldn't go any further on these non-tax revenues, licenses, taxes, fines, but seven billion were planning to punish Serbian citizens this year to fill the budget. Interest-based expenditure -- three billion, interest-based expenditure on foreign loans -- 12 billion. There is one interesting thing, subsidies to agriculture, so I remembered Sasa Vitosevic, his cow farm; no cow farm, but 14 million Sasa Vitosevic put in the pocket of the loan. However, you forgot another investment, donations and subsidies in the area of agriculture. Former Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, or her father-in-law, has only helped her mother-in-law get a loan to obtain herds of sheep. I'm sorry, I can't remember. However, when the credit was realised, it turned out that a public house was built in Baja's Garden, with all the red lanterns. How will expenditure be charged based on the payment of debt and the purchase of financial assets, that's 50 billion? That means you'll be printing bonds and borrowing abroad, etc. We have very little time left, so please, Mr. Chairman, stop the time, because I want to ask two parliamentary questions, and that doesn't get in at this time. Please turn off the time. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the code (exclusive, well, then deny the time, refuse what you're spending now), is the dress code in the ministries established? I've been informed that the Minister of Science is coming to the ministry of the naked stomach, half the ministry is running to see if there's a piercing on the navel. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the devastation of the Ministry's institution to the limit. Diaspora Minister Milica Cubrilo threw out the icon of St. Friday, threw out Paja Jovanovic and introduced some landscapes. Of course, those landscapes were purchased by the Ministry. All these ministries have to be put in order. Mr. Minister, you owe the final account for 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 to this National Assembly. I hope you'll prepare them. You're a visprised man, 88 privatizations, when you were the director of the Privatisation Agency, in a short time you ended up. I hope you finish it, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3038	The People's MP Radoslav Jevremovic has the word, and then the People's MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia that was to be found in this high house more than eight months ago, but because of you, called the Democrats, whom nothing matters except your chairs, he is ahead of us with eight months of delay. The Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia shows us that the new government intends to run the state of Serbia in the coming period, and only delivering the budget law for the year 2007 three days before the meeting of the Assembly speaks enough about the government trying, in various ways, to hide and conceal the real spending of the funds collected through taxes and excise duties from Serbian citizens. When we look at the first page of the 2007 draft budget, it can be seen that the budget represents a deficit of over 13 billion dinars, although in the first draft of the 2007 budget, which has been submitted to lawmakers, a surplus of 23 billion dinars, which tells us that the new government needs much more money, and that each DOS-manlian government is worse than the previous one and that it can be worse from the worse. On page 2. - expenditure of the 2007 budget, expenditure of budgets covered by a common attribute -- others, accounts for over 23 billion dinars. It's very unserious not to explain such an amount. In Article 2, on page 3, you wrote - the funds needed to finance the budget deficit and expenditure based on the repayment of debt and the purchase of financial assets amounted to over 64 billion dinar and will be provided from privatisation income, credit, donations and transferred funds from the previous year. This data tells us that the state is redeploying not 595 billion, what budget expenditures are, but 646 billion dinars and that the amount of over 64 billion dinars will, in fact, become public debt and burden to all citizens of Serbia. You say they'll be provided from the privatisation incomes. I suppose it will be through the sale of what remains still valuable in the state of Serbia -- NIS and EPS, from credit, which means that our country, already overindebted, will be owed even more. Also, from donations, probably from your friends in the West, when you sell some more of our territory or deliver some to The Hague tribunal. On the side of the 81st Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, you state the macroeconomic framework for the implementation of fiscal policy. The main objectives of economic policy in 2007, as well as in the next medium term, are macroeconomic stability, dynamic economic growth and employment growth and citizens' standards. The macroeconomic developments over the past period have been marked by low inflation, high growth in business activities, exports, imports and average earnings. The macroeconomic developments achieved over the past period can be assessed as favourable, except for the high growth of the external trade deficit. The macroeconomic movements, you say, are marked by low inflation. In Table 2, on page 83, you show a 6.5% projection. The question arises, how much inflation will it really be, or how much would it be if statistics didn't do what it does, or that it didn't meet the wishes of the contracting authorities? Besides, the citizens of Serbia know it best, through daily expenses. Inflation is growing year after year and is the result of a short-term economic policy conducted by the new government and carried out by the old Serbian government. You say high growth in economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, who you fool and tell stories about high growth in economic activity, when you yourself know the state of our economy and businesses. I can't look back on the state of business in Sremska Mitrovica, where I come from, where all the companies are sold out, workers are fired, and those who aren't fired on privatisation are fired now. Companies that have not been sold are gradually shut down, and there is no intervention by state authorities. One such example is the Matroz Paper Production Company, which was launched three years ago in the privatisation process. So far, nothing has been done and is currently in front of bankruptcy. This vast Mitrovica economy has been a happy time of more than 3,500 workers, and currently there are about 1,100 who do not have the basic right to work, to provide their work with the means to live for their families. But you don't care about that. You are not interested in the fact that 1,100 families will not have a piece of bread, you are not interested in the fact that Serbian citizens will not have living conditions. You're fine. You're not interested in anything else. Also, in the macroeconomic framework for the implementation of fiscal policy, you are aiming at increasing employment and citizens' standards. I can only give you one example. There are over 20,000 unemployed in Sremska Mitrovica, with 80,000 inhabitants. So where's your employment growth then? Nothing is a better situation in all of Serbia. In Table 6, on page 87 - Budget expenditure structure in 2006 and 2007, there are very interesting items under economic classification 423 - contracted services of over five billion dinars, and 424 - specialized services, amounting to over 10 billion dinars, which, knowing that matter, can always be something inexplicable and unreal and represent an opportunity for various manipulations. More resources should also be allocated to agriculture, because the situation in agriculture is very bad and there should be much to be done through the granting of larger subsidies to agricultural producers, but not in principle - who is a member of G17 plus, DSS or DS will get credit, and others cannot. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you promised 100 euros in subsidies per hectare, so I'm interested in what position in the budget is that regulated? If it's to trust that people's -- which is fast, it's also short, your budget, gentlemen of the government, is very fast out of some DOS workshop and will almost certainly not be realised as you imagined, so we're expected to rebalance the budget in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3040	Lidija Vukicevic, the MP of the people, then Zdravko Topalovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3041	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, before I discuss the draft budget that has been adopted and concerning culture, I would like to say something about the essential things concerning culture and on the basis of which proposed cultural funding should be properly directed. So we in culture have a very serious problem, and not in the last few years, but I'm free to say, in the last ten years. The elemental thing, meaning, what is alpha and omega in culture, and what does not exist, so from this comes the ravine, the clans, resulting in everything that is not allowed to do and absolutely all illegal actions, is, firstly, the mandatory adoption of the "blood" law. The "blood" law has been spoken of for years, it has been made, discussed, it has entered the assembly procedure even during Minister Koadinovic, but why it is not adopted, we do not know. Therefore, the roof law is a law that would imply the adoption of a national plan and programme and would propose the establishment of a national council. The roof law sets out all other laws that would regulate absolutely all institutions, whether film, music, music and theatre, are working in the way that every country in Europe has to and should work. Therefore, the roof law would mean the adoption of a set of laws, so we would have the law on theatre, the law on musical and stage works and other laws. Then there would be no problem, since, for example, under the Law on Theatre, the National Theatre would mean three items that it would have to respect, which are -- the preservation of the facility, the preservation of the historical archive, in general, the archive, given that the National Theatre was created in 1861 and that it was a very rich archive, which should be kept, and the preservation of the national repertoire. The assembly would be given a report on what is done and how it is done and would necessarily be given global programming. Otherwise, in the draft budget law, in the culture section, I saw, which is incorrect and probably stemmed from last year's culture budget, to write - the Institute of Film. The film institute no longer exists under that name. Now it's being rerouted in some other sense, but I don't know why we're not being explained here in the way that now it's doing everything called film and everything that's related to film. What I could quickly see in the draft budget, about culture, is this. I ask you, is the national interest and concern about financing children's theatres and theatres of national minorities, since I have not seen here that the funding of children's theatres is envisaged, as well as theatres, of course, national minorities. It's a huge problem, I know from my experience, since I was the director of the Children's Cultural Center. I know that Belgrade is the most valuable children's cultural centre in Takaviska No. 8, which is in its time, I'm building up and I can't say for today, it's possible that some things have changed, but in the Children's Cultural Centre it was done without a system of work, without a collective contract, without an individual contract. The parents, to enroll the child in a permanent group, and the permanent groups were either a ballet group, or music, or learning English, or any other foreign language, were paying the living money to the porter, the porter was giving it to the director, and the director was buying money for a collective from that non-regulatory income. Therefore, it was not paid by a fifth copy in the post office and was not paid in accounting either. So, I know that, in particular, the Children's Cultural Centre is doing very badly, I guess, because there is no financial assistance and there should probably be something to do, given that there is a huge theater at the Children's Cultural Centre, which could be adapted and that it represents not only a children's scene, but also a scene where evening performances could be played. It's just like this, in short, as far as institutions are concerned. What is important is the allocation of money within the budget in a way that, above all, creates opportunities for permanent cultural development, regardless of party commitment. Culture does not suffer a party's definition. We need to understand that and learn that we are all acting on it. You can't say - he can't play because he's DS, or, that painter can't paint because he's radical, or I don't know what. It is in our interest to raise Serbian culture to the highest level, and not, as we have already started lately, to demean our cultural heritage, which is terrible and inadmissible. So, let's say, we have examples of being insulted and belittled, the scrawny Prekosovski and Kosovo cycle, calling the Queen Mark a secikes, and his mother a jevrosima thief. These are things that are inadmissible. For example, the modern setting of Nusic in the theatre looks like this. In one decent Serbian house, and you will all agree that the Serbian house - is a real house of home and honor, in which the family has always been dominant and was known to be in order, the Polish toilet is being introduced in the middle of the house. The moment the Jerotis enters that Polish toilet, Andja adds a letter to him, which he uses in a way that we know how to use paper in the toilet, he returns it and she continues to read that letter. So that's inadmissible. We cannot desecrate Nusic and cannot defile everything that remains in our heritage, what is our cultural heritage, for the simple reason, that these shows then travel around the world and thus educate our children abroad. There's really no room for that. Contact and travel. Also, you need to set aside money for contacts and travel. So it should be taken care of. We've been under sanctions for a long time. I'm going to tell you that lately at the Cannes Festival, I've seen mostly politicians at festivals, and I don't see actors and actors, there's no separate means for this Cannes Festival to be visited by actors. It's mostly politicians, and from politicians, we find out what was going on at the Cannes Festival, or by watching some transmission. Protecting cultural national identity, but, please, with established criteria. We can't talk about national identity just like that, arbitraryly, to do our own thing and talk about it -- this is national, this isn't. So I absolutely think we should establish criteria for national identity. Education in the field of culture, too. Our actors don't travel anywhere. At the time of my studies there was a famous school of Lekok in France, so many, not only actors, but knights, painters, and musicians, went to countries that were suitable for their upgrade in the area of work. Encouraging young talent should not be institutionalised, it should already be an incentive through existing forms of value. This should be introduced as one rule and by that rule to behave. What is very important and what treats the draft budget on culture that you have submitted is the provision of public work, i.e. Commissions that approve projects. It happened, I'm not going to name movies, nor is it my goal to name people who participated in these projects, but you've learned for yourself that in the last few years the film's resources have been separated, and these aren't small funds, each of you knows how much it takes to separate funds to make a quality film, and we've never had any recorded material as evidence. That's not just the case with movies, that's also the case with theatre performances. Therefore, I would ask, if we really want to do something for our culture, to act accordingly, and that there are commissions that will approve these projects. Coordination of the criteria for admission to private academies and the state college of art. I'm not talking about private academy and state college programs. They seem to be in sync, as far as I'm aware. However, there is another problem. At the time that I was in the school of drama arts, I'm only saying this to bring you closer to the situation, 490 candidates were reported. Of those 490, seven of us, one class, were accepted by Professor Milenko Maricic. I think it was the right choice, because that's why we don't create an actor's hyperproduction and make social cases tomorrow. Today we have private colleges, where talent is not appreciated, even less talent, and more depth of pocket, unfortunately. I don't think talent can be bought, and that we should think about it a little bit, see what the criteria are for receiving, not just actors, but also vair and painters. I apologize for talking, first of all, about actors, because it's kind of close to me, but I'm talking about all the artists, at all the private colleges, compared to the state colleges. Also, collective agreements with media that use the work of artists should be defined. It happens that one series, which is shown on RTS, is downloaded on Pink TV and that benefits only television and protagonists do not. It's the same with writers. After the book is finished, the aquisitors have profits, it has publishing houses, and writers are left without any profit. National retirement artists, that's what I'd like to ask you about. Last year, in the 2006 budget, which I took and looked at, it seems to me that 32 or 34 million were allocated to so-called. National pensions. I have to admit, I don't know what "national" means. Anyway, they're not classic pensions, so after the actor's death, they don't transfer to family. There's 32 million out there, and none of those guys saw a dime, so I'm just wondering where that money is. What's most important is I left for last. I deliberately left it to end so you might remember, to think about it, and to understand what a social disgrace it is. It's inadmissible in one country. It's a shame for all of us, which is that they absolutely need to change the points of the laws relating to the payment of the contributions of independent artists, that their paid foundations are recognised as earnings. I'm just going to tell you that priests are basically recognized as earners and not independent artists. Independent artists live on the edge of misery. So musicians, knights, designers and actors retire with, if you don't know, gentlemen MPs, 14,000 dinars. We've got our big, prominent actor Steve Gygon, who's gone with 14,000 dinars retired. Many independent artists can't do even the most basic thing, what every living thing means -- to be buried with honor, but to collect money by association. That's why I think it's a real shame. With regard to the resolution of this basis of the contribution of independent artists, something should be done. Because our minimum base is like that of 12,000 dinars. You know, it's a big shame and no stimulant for artists. But because artists are more and more defined to respect the soul, the feelings, to have enthusiasm, than they care about money, they agree to all of it. But we as a society, if we want to go to Europe, we must go to Europe with culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3042	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zdravko Topalovic, followed by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3043	Ladies and gentlemen, before we look back at some interesting budget divisions, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question. How does it feel to grow in gross social product, reduce inflation and launch a stronger investment average by increasing public spending, the planned external trade deficit, by relying solely on imports, and not on domestic economy and its development? I'd like the minister to answer that question for me. Here are some interesting items in the budget. In section 3rd point 4, where it stands - the Office for Media Cooperation, writes - 73 million 811 thousand dinars, out of which they pay, contributions and other contributions to employees exceed half of this amount. Probably, a very unjustly high amount for that office. In section 5, point 8, where the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is, it will receive unwarranted large funds from 72 million dinars, out of which more than 60 go to employee earnings and their contributions. What did you say in your explanation for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office? You said that funding the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has a special place, given our strategic orientation towards European integration and joining the European Union. What's the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes doing? Is there any indictment against crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens killed by the Cypriot separatists and those responsible for Serbia's bombing pact from NATO? Will Serbia's taxpayers continue to finance only the initiation of charges against Serb patriots? Unlike the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, you predicted a small amount of 65 million dinars for the military intelligence service. Is this continuing to destroy the military and its intelligence by Tadic, Ponos, Sutanovci, and now from you ministers, through the projection of such a budget? The foreign investment agency and export promotion should receive 232 million 673 thousand dinars. The agency represents only one type of budget sucking by the ruling coalition, through the marketing agencies of Mr. Gilas, Divljan, Meken, Erikson and other agencies that have a monopoly in these jobs in Serbia. I see the local self-government minister was present yesterday. Before the debate in the Republic Parliament on the republic's budget, local self-governments discussed their budgets. This means that they are predicated on rebalancing, that the budgets are bad and that they are not in line with the republican budget. Since the debate is united, there is something to be said about other laws, first of all, about the Tax Act on additional value. The VAT revenues would certainly be higher, Mr. Minister, and the tax discipline at the highest level would be lower. That would lead to a disbursement of the economy, and hence the citizens. The DOS, after all, promised that the rate would be 10%, so, of course, he lied. In Article 8. The Excise Act provides for the elimination of fruit juice excises, which would, as you say, equalise import and domestic producers, or importers and domestic producers. It is further destroying domestic production, and in no way creating a healthy competition atmosphere. This opens the door to foreign producers, which will enter our market by dumping and, I may say freely, clean up their domestic producers. Everything is covered by the harmonisation of the law with the World Trade Organisation and the European Union. The moment that Serbia, if it enters the European Union, then bring the law into line. The citizens of Serbia will certainly be uneasyly surprised by the change of members of 6. The Excise Act, which provides for an increase in excise duty on liquid gas, since 1 January 2008; will be 10 dinars. One more thing I'd say. Article 23 The Excise Act provides for a reduction in the general VAT rate for the purchase of computer equipment. You didn't predict something that's a much bigger problem in Serbia, which is, gentlemen, drinking water. Protecting your public enterprises, communal, you did not predict that the general rate for bottled water is less than 8%. Because Serbia lacks drinking water. The people will not be able to buy that water at a high price and will be forced to drink water that is not bacteriologically correct. There's one more thing I'd like to say to Mr. Secretary, very briefly. It's an opportunity to prevent a major outflow of money from Serbia. In fact, on June 15th, a lottery agreement was signed in Celje in the vicinity of the country's co-editing game of chance, Loto. Where did the sudden interest of Slovenia, Croatia, the Muslim-Bosna Federation, Macedonia, and Montenegro come from for associations of that kind, when and at the cost of war, other than Montenegro, come from Yugoslavia? Very simply, Mr. Bojan Kristoff, the alpha and omega, the gray eminence of the Serbian State lottery, is working on further poverty, the withdrawal of money from Serbian citizens. To whom will this association, Mr. Minister, file a tax return? Where will the winners and the association pay VAT? Stop the robbery of Serbia, because Serbia is a market of 10 million people and Slovenia is of a million people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3044	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Milosav Milickovic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. You have 30 minutes left for the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3045	I will try briefly to explain what the budget means, but I can't explain what the final bill of 2000 means, because we haven't had the opportunity to have that satisfaction since the "father" of democracy and the "children" of democracy taught us that democracy works best when no report is submitted. In a time of great democracy, we don't have any final accounts. For your accuracy, I'm telling you, I'm talking to people from the government, today we're making a budget for 2007 not for 2008. You know, what you're doing, it's for 2007. It should have been over a long time ago, but it wasn't over, for one simple reason -- which is the one who usurped power, in a coalition with another who also usurped power, tried to play some democracy, so he negotiated whether it was legal for temporary funding, or not legal; you obviously agreed it was all legal. Since democracy came, we've been taught that anything is possible. A possible state without a government, it's a technical government, it's a possible state without budget, it's a temporary funding forever, everything's been possible since democracy came. We don't have final accounts for six years, because you haven't adopted that one in 2000. Let me remind you, you didn't adopt it, you didn't want to adopt it because you felt that by not adopting the final bill for 2000 you could pursue a political persecution of non-eminents. That's where you made a cardinal mistake. Why? Because the lack of final accounts is the flow of democracy. Democracy and whistle. You can whistle till you're ready. I get the impression you whistle much better than you do politics. In the meantime, we lost two states, of course, democratically. First the Federal Republic, then the State Community. It's all the flow of democracy. Let me get this straight. If you treat the budget as a reservoir of some village for water, so there are five or six sources, you collect water into some tank, and then you have to get water out of that tank. Since democracy came, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is only one pipe. There's a shower at the end of that tube. The shower releases water, one jet is the Democratic Party, one is a faction, the other is the Democratic Party - the second is a faction, the third is the Democratic Party of Serbia, the fourth is New Serbia, the fifth is NGOs, the sixth is a jet, let's say, let's say, some of which need to get back credits, the seventh jet is someone else, come up to 20 and some jets, or 56 positions, divisions, these are some users of which all depends. What's said, apparently, that there's been some kind of 13 billion deficit...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3046	Mr. Krasic, I'm sorry, due to the pre-arranged basketball transfer, the transfer of the Assembly is interrupted at 19.55, so make sure you have four or five minutes left. We'll continue tomorrow at ten o'clock session. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3047	It's quite enough these five minutes. You see how clear I am, it's clear to everyone. This deficit is fictitious, 13 billion. Why? The state can do anything. As much as they need money, they can take it. Here's, let's say, what would I recommend to the finance minister -- that he is not walking in the footsteps of Mladjan Dinkic. He acted to make the government a solution to the state records emissions of the Republic of Serbia. Please pay attention to the dates and amounts of how one part of the budget is formed, how short-term funding is done to bridge the problem in the budget, and we had a surplus that year, both past and before. Here, like this. "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 116/2005 - emission amount - 500 million dinars, broadcast date - 10 January 2006. Next, the broadcast date - January 24, 2006, a billion dinars of emissions. Let's be clear about what it is. It doesn't differ, in principle, from printing money. It's making money. For who? For the budget. For example, on 31 January 2006 -- 600 million dinars, 7 February 2006 -- 900 million dinars, 21 February 2006 -- a billion, and so on, we go to short-term borrowing, about two to three times a month. That's how the surplus formed, however, it has this and its other side. Who was buying it? The chosen one. Through who? Over the Stock Exchange. What's our stock market like? Fictitious, thieving. Why? Because there's something going on on our stock market that's nowhere on the globe. Everyone doing business on the Stock Exchange is making money. Then there's the question, and who pays to make money? The budget of the Republic of Serbia. End of story. So money is created, so funds are transferred from general public spending into private pockets. Then I'm not surprised that one of them has 11 million euros, the other one has 10, the third one can't even say, he's angry that we mentioned him here, and I don't want to order any more. Let me get back to this budget thing. What is the extent of our consumption? He's not as good as the minister said. It's not 590 and, as far as you can tell, 6 billion dinars. What else did you have to add here? How many items have you dropped? You dropped quite a few items. We will discuss this much more specifically, God's health tomorrow, in principle debate, and the day after tomorrow, in particular, because almost every member and every division have some amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. Then the second part of the debate will go, which is called dissection. Why the parts? That the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand what a tragedy such a view of democracy and such a democratic way of ruling is. This is where you get kidnapped in a very legal way. Why? Because every stupidity gets legitimacy with 126 votes. Any nonsense, open crime. You will see, from item to item, how many contracts, or services per contract. Please, we've been a budgetary miracle for two years. The only president financed by donations from abroad is the president of the Republic of Serbia. It's an insult to any state that holds to its sovereignty. With us, they're proud, they have an item, an exact economic classification so many and so many, 250,000, so many millions. He's going to travel this year for 140 million dinars. Where does he travel? Wherever he went, he made a diplomatic scandal. He needs to be banned from traveling. Given that we have problems with the quorum, I suggest, Mr. Obradovic, that you suggest that in these first benches there be both foxes and that Minister Jocic, at the beginning of the working day of the National Assembly, bring in ministers, button them up with handcuffs, be present here all the time, to hear, because today we have had a rare situation to hear the MPs of the authorities who criticise this government and this concept. I don't want to mention them, so we don't have any adverse consequences within our own parties. They talked to the heart, so they figured out what the problems with this government and this kind of projection were. Since this is already over, tomorrow morning we'll move on, explain which position who steals and why he steals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-19-0.u3048	There are 20 minutes left for the Serbian Radical Party. We interrupt work today and resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 110 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP Lasslo Varga. We move to a common principled search 1 - 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007. THE YEAR (with financial plans of compulsory social insurance organisations) AND THE AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF VAT LAWS, ACCISMS, PORSICAL PROCEDURES AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION AND THE CARIN TARIFI (continuing) has been advertised in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
