ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1328	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have proposed a grouping of debates on these three agenda points in line with the agreement of the heads of Parliament. Therefore, agreement has been reached that the debate is being conducted united, given parliamentary practice that these points have been normally not discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1329	Thank you very much. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1330	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know how the information is that it's a deal with the heads of Parliament clubs. The whole time I was at that meeting, we didn't reach agreement, nor did we talk about it at all, and I would never give such agreement if anyone had asked me, because it's impossible and unacceptable to humiliate the post of vice president of the National Assembly at the level of the board members. If we choose the President of the Assembly in one way, and there is no unification of the debate with any item of the agenda, how will you choose the one who should replace it. You can see that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is an alpha and omega in Serbia's political life today. Can't discuss the election of vice presidents being united with some of the agenda points there. It's impossible, it's unacceptable. There is no need to avoid discussing the selection of people to the most important functions in the Serbian Parliament, maybe someone has something to say about it, maybe someone will leave the room, maybe someone won't want to participate in it. I really cannot, nor would I accept responsibility, to accept on behalf of the MPs of the SRS the idea of humiliating the vice president of the National Assembly. If I were to make a point with you Democrats, then today Natasa Jovanovic would resign as vice president, then we would run her again, so that we could make you participate in the election of Natasha Jovanovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Because we don't want to have vice presidents elected here one night, when it was truth night, when anyone knew what they were thinking, and other vice presidents on the day when the truth was hiding and when they could vote for whoever you wanted. So for me, all the vice presidents of the National Assembly are exactly the same as the president of the National Assembly at the time when he is unable to perform his function. The debate on these points of the agenda cannot be brought together. And if this is an announcement that you will connect incompatibly, as is your government, then know that we will not participate. We are absolutely against the merger of debates for the election of vice presidents and board members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1331	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1332	So I withdraw the motion to merge the debate, we respect the arguments. We can suggest, possibly, the merger of two points, committees and delegations, and as far as the vice president is concerned, there remains a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1333	Thank you, Mrs. Nado. Determination of the agenda. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and without the merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. He did not vote 91 for 137, of the 228 MPs present. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Selection of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 2 Selection of three vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposals for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia committee, which they submitted: - Democratic Party MP group, - Democratic Party of Serbia Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica's Group of MPs G17 plus, - Parliamentary Group "Liberal Democratic Party", - A parliamentary group of minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley, - the Vojvodjan Group of MPs - LSV, SVM; 4. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions: - the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, - the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, - the Assembly of the Western European Union, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, - the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxies, - the Interparliamentary Union, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative, 5. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 6. The appointment of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 10 of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we accept a proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you can see, Oliver Dulic, a member of the Democratic Party, was proposed to the National Assembly. I remind you that, according to Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? Here you go, Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1334	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with Articles 9 and 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the agreement of the parties that formed the assembly's majority to elect and support the government, the Democratic Party proposes Mr Oliver Dulic as president of the assembly. Oliver Dulic is a longtime member of the DS, a doctor by profession and ends up specialising. What was important to us was the fact that by choosing the president of the National Assembly we are sending a very strong political message. So the president of the assembly is among the two or three most important positions in this country. The message we wanted to send is that most citizens, who think Serbia is interested in connecting with the world and European integration, want to see at the post of president of the Parliament of men who symbolizes such a policy. Mr Oliver Dulic is a man who realizes that the interest of Serbian citizens is in achieving European integration, connecting Serbia and opening up to the world and co-operation with the world in the best interests of all Serbian citizens. What Mr. Oliver Dulic characterises is perseverance. His profession shows that he, though young, has done many things in the best way possible. He's graduated from a college that takes a lot of patience, a lot of perseverance, and a sense of help for people. What has also been important to us is the fact that Oliver Dulic is a man who is tolerant, ready to compromise, ready to make deals. We really believe that in the work of the Assembly, he will succeed in working together with all the MPs and all the parliamentary groups, above all, creating an atmosphere where citizens will see that we are doing a serious job here and that we are all at it together, regardless of political differences. Mr Oliver Dulic came from a multinational environment and as such learned what wealth of differences mean, he learned, too, what tolerance means, he learned what it means to agree, make a compromise and look for the best solution. What some may see as a lack of Mr. Dulic is his youth, but our belief that Mr. Dulic, with his few years of age, has done a lot of things and has indeed been a man who can boast of all that he does. That he was a man who wouldn't allow over 30 or barely a year ago, that he was constantly perfecting himself, that he was constantly educated and developed into a serious politician at the same time. He's not in politics since yesterday, he's not in politics like a man who's only made a political career, he's one of those rare young people who's trained for a job that they've worked for politics. We think that medicine may lose an excellent doctor, but we believe that by electing Oliver Dulicz, the president of the Assembly, we will get a great politician. I call on all MPs to vote for the DS proposal to elect Mr Oliver Dulic as president of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1335	Thank you, Mrs. Nado. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 10(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are opening a search. Do the presidents or representatives of the ambassador groups want a word? Mr. Canak, then Mr. Dulic. All right, Dulic, here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, I have been given the great honor today to stand here before you and to be my party's proposal for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that I am a young man, but I took this offer as an attempt by my party to build new relations in Serbia and to install some new people on the political scene, who are not burdened with problems from the past and who can build bridges among themselves. A lot of things Mrs. Hope Kolundji said about me and you have my professional and political biography. I wanted to expose here before you something that would possibly be my work plan, and invite you to try together not only to transform this high house, but to try to transform and relations within it. It is important to completely change the relationship between political parties and MPs in the Assembly, public and citizens towards parliamentaryism and the relationship between the government itself and other state institutions towards the highest democratic body in the state of Serbia. Our goal is to raise the level of efficiency of this House, but also the dignity of this House. If we want others to respect us, we must begin to respect ourselves and the social role that the citizens have given us in the elections. Let me try to diagnose the state of parliamentaryism in Serbia today. Unfortunately, regardless of the great efforts of previous leaderships, the Serbian Parliament is the state body with the lowest rating among our citizens. Many would say it's because of direct television transmissions, but there are other problems. In the Assembly today, as in the past, in addition to serious political debates and competitive relations between the authorities and the opposition, we have very often debates full of port insults, ugly words and slanders that we refer to each other. These cultural discussions do not match the level our voters reach when they debate among themselves. Instead of setting up a model of behaviour in debates, correctness and tolerance towards other people's opinions and differences, MPs in the National Assembly sometimes bring down the cultural scale and contribute to increasing intolerance, intolerance and division in our society. The congregation is a very common place where everything is allowed and possible. The high ratings of congregation transfers do not lie in the voter's desire to monitor legislative activity and the development of society, but to entertain itself. Because of all this, the reputation of the MP in the midst from which he comes is very low. Instead of honor and respect, the MPs, regardless of what parties they came from, have been uneasy in their midst because of the work they do. The legislative work itself was, primarily by the executive authority, transformed into a mere series of voting laws, without debates on expert committees, serious discussions on amendments and a real intention to change acts that come to the agenda qualitatively. There were, of course, attempts to change this state, but it was more encouraging than individual actions by individual MPs or parliamentary groups, not by the systematic efforts of all political actors to do everything possible for parliament to get that dimension and that importance in the society it deserves. The level of expertise of the staff in the Assembly has been raised over the past period, but they are not even close to the needs we have today. Today's Parliament is unable to meet effectively the challenge of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, which is one of the country's priority objectives. No parliament in the surrounding countries has as much problems and bad relations as ours, and there is no reason for that to root in our culture, our democratic tradition or economic opportunities. We are all responsible for this situation in the congregation. Each political party and each parliamentary group shall bear their share of responsibility. All parties sitting in parliament today or individuals from them have at one point in the past created an atmosphere in the Assembly and have done things that make this home's position in society unacceptable. There are solutions to the problems we face. If we want to improve the work of this house, we must all, both the majority and minorities, gather around several basic goals that will create a basis for raising the level of parliamentaryism in Serbia. The first and most important goal is to start a debate between parliamentary parties tomorrow, but also with the professional public, on the adoption of the law on the Republika Srpska Assembly. That, of course, is also the obligation of a recently elected Constitution. The law should provide a legal framework to correct the large number of weaknesses that parliament has. He should define the financial independence of the Parliament from the government and define the structure of the Assembly itself. This law would specify the rights and obligations of MPs, both according to legislative activities and towards their constituents. It would be ideal if all MP groups in this assembly could agree on this law to the greatest extent possible. The consensus on this law would strike the foundations of new relations in parliament. If we are effective and wise in the coming days, this law could be found among the first on the agenda and adopted before other important acts defined by the Constitutional Law. The second priority is to change the Rules of Procedure. The key thing is to find a balance between the opposition's need to have enough freedom and space to point to the government's mistakes and the need for parliament to be effective, to adopt government proposals and to pass quality laws. We have intensive legislative work ahead of us. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU and the further major steps towards full membership in the EU must be made, as well as other segments of society, to make our full contribution. There is an agreement in the environment between the government and the opposition not to carry out any kind of parliamentary obstruction when it comes to harmonising domestic legislation with the EU. Personally, I wish that was the case with us. Since political reality is different, and time is an important resource for our citizens and the state, we will have to work longer and longer than colleagues in the environment. Parliament must not be a narrow throat of the process of European integration and it is our joint responsibility to work effectively on our part of the obligations. The Rules of Procedure are an act that most and minorities should agree on. I know this is very difficult, but it would be necessary to reach maximum consensus on the key points that we are changing in the Rules of Procedure. Third, we need to regulate the Parliament's relationship with the government. Ministers must be present in parliament and defend their laws. It must be possible for MPs to ask questions of importance to all members of the government for their voters. The government needs to know who's older in the division of power. It won't be easy, but it depends solely on all of us, both the majority and the minority. I want to fight for it. Fourthly, the Assembly needs professional and informative strength. Communication and rule of law need to be modernised. We need to give great importance to the congregation committees, such as bodies where expert discussions are conducted and laws are corrected. That is why we intend to continue to strengthen human resources humanly and professionally in the Assembly. All employees of the Assembly for their work must be adequately paid. In addition, the capacity of the Members themselves should be strengthened professionally and informationically. I'm sure each of you has an interest in modernizing and improving your existing skills, and we'll make it possible. Fifthly, parliamentary and party diplomacy has proved to be increasingly important and more powerful weapons that all countries of the world have their interest in. The Republika Srpska Assembly must carry its part of the burden to meet our country's foreign policy priorities, and to preserve Kosovo and Metohija within our borders, and to promote and improve Serbia's position in the world, and for the aforementioned European integration process. We will do everything to strengthen the professional and political capacity of both parliament and political parties, to make foreign policy work much better and more efficient. Every political party in this parliament should find its place in European parties or global party institutions. Parliament can be very helpful in this process. The last question is the social role of parliament. The assembly must change its relationship with the public, as well as the relationship of MPs with voters. The plan is to adapt the work of the Assembly to the needs of citizens, to have the opportunity to speak to their MPs in their midst. The electoral system is such that the voter does not have his directly elected MP, but in this assembly most of Serbia's municipalities are represented with a member of parliament. We will make sure that in every municipality or district, so in the state institution, we allow the MP to receive citizens and receive information important to his work. Due to the poor media presentation of the work of MPs, better media co-operation should be established and more up-to-date to report to the public all developments in the Assembly. Plenary sessions are only one segment of Parliament's work. Other aspects of the work of MPs must also be presented. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly must not be merely an organ of the legislative authority. It is precisely because of its democratic character and legitimacy given by citizens that parliament should be a creator or active participant in social events and phenomena. Every political activity and initiative, both parliamentary clubs and MPs individually, associations of citizens or NGOs is more than welcome. Minorities must ensure that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, their parliamentary activities are carried out in their native languages. The Republika Srpska Assembly is a place where democracy and freedom must live in their full glory, but also a place where procedures and Rules of Procedure are strictly respected. I urge you to jointly edit the rules of the game that will be valid long in the future, no matter who is in the majority or minority after the election. I invite you to cooperate. Please help me with your suggestions and suggestions on how to improve the work of this House. I want to promise you that I will always be at your disposal, no matter what political option they belong to. Finally, I would like to share with you a vision of the Assembly in the near future. Our ancestors left us with a beautiful monumental building for the purposes of parliamentary work, that is the House of the National Assembly. In August, it was celebrated for 100 years that a cornerstone was placed in the Serbian congregation building. We will do everything to get already from the autumn complete plenary work moved to the Square of Nikola Pasic. The home would not only be a parliament, but also a significant attraction for Belgrade, which would be attended by citizens from various parts of our country to watch their representatives, as in all European parliaments, defend their political stances with elected words and strong arguments. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the end I would do something that I believe is said in spirit. Namely, in a congregation debate last week, and I became convinced after reading the stenogram, I unwarrantedly spoke words that could be misread and offended by the vice presidents you had chosen earlier. Regardless of the political circumstances and the atmosphere that ruled those days, I was wrong. I want to sincerely apologize to all those who could have been hurt by my words. I hope that all vice-presidents, after our co-operation is over, will be honored and pleased that we worked together at times when Serbia was changing. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1337	Thank you, Mr. Dulic. I'm asking Mr. Nenad Chank to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1338	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Vojvodjan Group of MPs will give supervised support to Mr Dulic. Why supervised? For the simple reason it's a word that's been mentioned more and more often in our language, and I guess that means it -- we'll see what it does. That's the first thing. Secondly, we will support him because he is a young man, we hope that he will invest his energy and youth in the work of this high house and will, in this way, do as much in the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't forget, Parliament isn't God knows what, but it's the best we've got. Without this parliament, Serbia is anarchy. Without this parliament, Serbia is falling into the totalitarian regime it has already been in, and we don't need that. That's why it's good to find a young man with fresh ideas on his forehead. I'd say another one. It's nice that Mr. Dulic is a doctor, but in one period of our history, doctors played an extremely important role in the political life of Serbia and Serbs in general, so they claimed that Serbs lead psychiatrists, followed by their patients. Since Mr. Dulic is orthopedic, I consider him my president.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1339	Thank you very much, Mr. Chank. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today need to elect the president of the National Assembly, per the understanding of the SRS, the most important function in the country. Besides, I think more votes today will be for the National Assembly president than for the government's election, so before I warn you that MPs who resigned one minute before that participated in the government vote, and one minute after that became ministers. I now introduce you to the fact that the mandate of MP Bozidar Djelic, Milan Markovic, Dusan Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac, stopped a minute before they voted for themselves to be elected ministers. You're getting off on the wrong foot. Mladjan Dinkic was even worse. First he voted for himself, so after six minutes he resigned as MPs. Let me just point out how you understand the National Assembly and this function as National Assembly President. Of course, one question can be approached from a number of angles, with more aspects to appreciate, and so can the youth of candidates for the president of the assembly. Youth is always an advantage, and every time you come out here and say, a young man, few of us elders will dare to contradict you, because it will be attributed to Kathon's words about old people - that we are full of malice, that we resent young people. However, there is something that Serbia's choice of Mr. Dulic certainly lacks, which is that maturity, experience, career. What should we discuss about Mr. Dulic? If it wasn't for that night, we wouldn't have anything or negative to say about him, but nothing positive. There are simply years in which you have not earned the most important state function. There's time for everything. If I were Mr. Dulic's father, I'd imagine why he's leaving his medical career. The president of the National Assembly can't be a doctor, especially the one holding a knife in his hand, and you know it well. Ask our MPs who were MPs in one term, in the other they returned to the O.R., they needed time, and some of them did not return. I see your life path, he was completely committed to politics, you should've opened the books of politics right away and not be distracted by medicine, a team before all your specializations were then political specializations, management etc. What can I blame you for now? You're a typical DS cad. The first engagement in another political party, then in the DS, but at the same time the creation of one firm, the other, which is not in your biography. One of them accidentally dealt with fissalization, at a time when the DS introduced fiscal cash registers. Your statement that you cannot put interest in Kosovo and Metohija above the interest of entering Europe, in my opinion, fully discredits and rejects you as someone we could possibly vote for. You had two other statements, for one you gave an apology, which I think is not enough for the Vice Presidents, and for me, as the one who chaired at the time, there was no need at all. Did you really say you would simply spit people sitting next to Mrkonjic and others at the president's table. You will be sitting dry in a few minutes next to Mrkonjic and Mrkonjic will be happy to leave you with this function. But you said, Mr. Dulic, something that really hurts me, which actually completely rejects the story of the one who suggested you here that tolerance comes, that you're a young man unburdened by the past. You said - my choice allowed some Serbian citizens to head up. That was on B92. That's the most dangerous statement for a National Assembly president. In Serbia, everyone should go with their heads up. I understand that you were brought by honesty that night, but I'd like you to be honest all the time doing your job as president of the National Assembly. This will not be supervised by the chairmanship of the National Assembly. As I am against being watched over in Kosovo and Metohija, I am also opposed to being watched by those who made you a political figure and overseeing how we do it here in the Assembly. You'll face big problems, Mr. Dulic. First of all, you would have to interrupt the post-election session and put our team's report on Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda immediately, as it was an imperative position for all of you who did not want to participate in the session's work that night. I remind you that since then, it seems to me, almost two weeks ago, that imperative attitude is gone. Next, you said - the law on the National Assembly. There you will face the Democratic Party, which on two occasions stopped the adoption of laws on the National Assembly. She was then an opposition to the congregation’s majority, and she felt that she needed to embarrass the MPs seeking the Law on the National Assembly in public. So, you will have a difficult task to explain why by choosing you, the Democratic Party is giving up on embarrassing the MPs who are looking for a law on their work. I didn't realize whether or not you're on TV or against them, but whoever dares to participate in the termination of TV broadcasts risks repeating events from our near past, so I recommend that you, warmly and heartily, never occur to you to give in to the pressures that the sessions of the National Assembly may not be passed on. You will move the congregation to the House of the National Assembly. Ask Mr. Micunovic how much trouble and money has gone to fit the home after a magnificent event on October 5, 2000. If your political nomenclature were to wonder, there would never be anything left in that building, or that building would only work when you're in power. Now you're facing the past as a young man, I had that experience in 2000 as a mature man, almost old. You may find it easier to get over something that will happen to you, but you will see that a machine called the Government wants to break the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And you saw that this morning when the motion came, the senseless and senseless proposal of the government, that today we are dealing with human rights issues in the government. They don't care about the Constitutional Court, about the Casation, about the many laws we didn't comply with, they're interested in what's going to happen to the officers who need to choose here or wait for the agreements to be elected, and that the government and the state administration could somehow function. Many of the presidents of the National Assembly chaired the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They were all in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all considered by the government as their officials, all humiliated the National Assembly, calling it in within hours. Here, since the DOS has firmly taken over the country's levers, all laws have been passed by emergency procedure, almost all without reports from the competent committees, so you will likely have these pressures from the new government of the Republic of Serbia. In a different form, everyone was already in power. When we ask you here for a agenda point, where we are going to discuss the most important issues in the country, whether, say, the vice president of the government is a criminal, whether his friends who, after the office of the finance minister, founded companies that rob the country day and day, will not be able to disobey that request. There are so many of us that we can either convince you that some points have to be on the agenda or that we can assure you that the sessions can't be done if we don't solve the most important issues in the country. Now I'm telling you that I didn't accidentally ask Minister Milosavljevic from this pay phone what his participation in two companies, the founder of Bozidar Djelic, who has been overrun by hundreds of millions. For me, what is happening in Kosovo, the Metohija is partly in our hands, and much more in the hands of our friends. What we can do, what we do -- do, if none of us betray us, no one will be able to blame us. But are we going to clear up with crime and corruption through the National Assembly? We can do that, and not only can we, we have to, and you all know it. Remember that you belong to a political party who brought you into the National Assembly once, and the Constitutional Court annulled that choice of yours. You were, in fact, a substrate for someone from the Democratic Party of Serbia, I don't know exactly what that MP was called, who was being chased so you could be an MP. This took a short while, and I would not state it in my biography, because you were not even a folk MP, although the Assembly at that time passed many laws and our request that the Constitutional Court be declared constitutional to these laws never discussed, as it is the Democratic Party. So you're going to have to do, Mr. Dulic, much more than draw on the wall to convince us that you have a sense of democracy. You know, when a teacher asks a kid to draw a horse, what he draws, he moves away and sees it doesn't exactly look like it, he writes it down there -- this is a horse. That's what you call yourself the Democratic Party to convince someone that you have democracy in you. So convince us that the Assembly can be democratic, that it can be folk. Convince us that we do not need a committee to protect the rights of the opposition, for example, to convince us that all MPs in this assembly are equal to the president of the National Assembly and that they are in certain ways controlling the government. Don't let the government control you at least the MPs of the ruling majority, since the Radical Government would not have succeeded us either, we are, to control you, and perhaps relations will be at the level we would have provided, that a radical has been chosen by chance for the president of the National Assembly. Until you convince us, we will be against your choice and you understand that. We'll vote for all the vice presidents, for all the board members. This is the right that voters gave in the elections, and this is the right that you have acquired, as part of the ruling coalition's agreement, is not interested in the SRS and we will participate in this the way we've always participated. I really wish the National Assembly a lot of happiness. We've got some rough and burning sessions waiting for us to sit down where we're going to have to show that we deserve a place in these benches. You'll see, at those tumultuous sessions, we won't act like you, at those burning sessions we'll be part of Serbia, not part of those who are against your functions. The fact that we are against your function, that we will bring down both the President of the Republic and the Government this year, does not prevent us from working in this assembly in Serbia's interest with each of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1341	Mr Dragan Todorovic reported on his words under the Rules of Procedure. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to report for word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I strongly recommend to DS that he finally begin to work in accordance with one of the paroles that they highlighted many years ago in the election campaign, if you remember, "honestly". You should finally introduce yourselves to the citizens of Serbia in a different way, not that whenever something dirty appears, anywhere, it should be related to the DS. You had the most normal way to, before there was a vote, the people you proposed for the ministers resigned, to elect other MPs and to do it correctly. As far as the Administrative Board is concerned, whatever you did not participate in it, the Administrative Board, without any problems, has made it clear that it will schedule the session, consider those resignations. We came to the Assembly half an hour before the meeting began, to discuss the resignations of candidates who were to be proposed for ministers. The Secretary of the Committee has informed us that the resignations have not arrived. There was nothing we could do about it, because it's very simple. Under the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, if they were elected ministers, they would cease the term of office by law. But what's the problem? The problem with you is that you want to show up honest, moral, which is a complete lie. That best says the time when your MPs, and future ministers, resigned. They voted for themselves as MPs who had already resigned. Because, watch out, the resignation is filed at the moment of signature, and at the moment of surrender in the office she was officially seduced. You could have done all that without any trouble. However, it is obvious to you that this parole, which you pointed out many years ago, will never become a motto of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1343	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered the words, and Mr. Dacic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1344	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has practically been prevented from supporting the candidate for the LDP, Mr Dulic, primarily because the ruling majority is said to be behind this candidacy. We are opposition to the government of Vojislav Kostunica, we voted against the ruling majority, and we do not think that there is room for a change in our position in Parliament, especially because the president of parliament, in our opinion, has to answer some very concrete political questions in order to get our support. This is not our personal attitude towards Mr Dulic, this is the attitude towards one policy, which in our opinion is wrong, bad and that does not meet the needs and parliament, and that is much more important to Serbia's needs. Three key questions we want to get an answer on, and that answer depends on the readiness of Parliament's president to engage in their resolution. This is a matter of the country's constitutional reform, a very important issue of applying the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, which this Parliament adopted in 2003, and this is a very important issue, especially following the RIK's report on financing the last election campaign, defining policy relations and the business world. Not only did we get answers, we did not even see the willingness to discuss these issues at all. I repeat that we are the opposition to the ruling coalition and are not ready to support the citizens, which we have won in the elections to promote a different policy here than the one the ruling coalition insists on, we provide exactly that to the ruling coalition, especially given what it has done in the last few months. Of course, at any moment we will be ready to support Mr Dulic, but under very clear political conditions, which relate to our priorities and our commitment to the people who voted for us. As for the vote for vice-presidents, the Assembly Committees and the Secretary of Parliament, we will respect the current parliamentary practice and provide support, to which candidates are certainly entitled, since it is a vote for the citizens who chose them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1345	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS will of course not vote in favour of a proposal for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As I have said many times, we have never personally questioned who the candidate from the majority in which the SPS does not participate. Therefore, it is the right of every parliamentary majority to propose its candidate. I would just like to warn you of a practice that seems to me to have gotten off on the wrong foot at the last session of parliament, which is that we are discussing personal solutions to certain parties, although we have never done so. And if the representatives of the parliamentary majority wanted us to give them back the same measure, then it would turn into one general confusion debate on all possible issues and issues, we would not vote for vice president candidates, we would make the most possible accusations against each other and so on. Of course, in Serbia's political life everything is possible, so it is possible that those who attacked each other most in the world by yesterday are now working extremely well in the government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I can see, the co-operation of flowers, as far as I can tell, are very pleased with this co-operation and President Kostunica, and DS, are all overjoyed. Well, then it's no big deal that someone said that Karic's cashier, who can't lead Serbia, can be Vice President Vojislav Kostunica. It's an extremely good collaboration. You know how, I've really been through everything in my life, but as much as you've boasted to each other, it didn't take any of us to say anything against your government and against you. If we wanted to talk against you, we could just take the stenograms from these past sessions and read them. You were probably right about each other, probably, but that's your choice. You've fallen in love with each other, although it's obvious that it's not a principle agreement because there's no agreement here on any principle point. About European integration I have already said several times, the DSS thinks it should not enter the European Union if the European Union says Kosovo should be independent. G17 Plus would enter the European Union at any cost, even if Belgrade only entered the European Union or just G17 Plus headquarters. You have a Hague case, where the Prime Minister has so far had the policy of not handing it over to The Hague tribunal, and the President of the Republic says that the co-operation must end. So, how's it gonna end? The G17 is just waiting for you and ticking the days when it will leave the government for not delivering Mladic. Just to find him, but I'm sure he's not in Serbia, because if he were in Serbia, you'd have found him by now. In any case, this cooperation is not principled. There's no politics here. In your discussions, you entered a spirit in the last session that has not been present in parliament so far when the debate concerned the choice of individual people. I accept and respect what Mr. Dulic said at the end of his presentation, as far as his apologies are concerned, for what he said, but I remind him once again and remind him of every MP and every politician that we are the owners of just what we do not say. The thing of political culture is also political correctness is that whatever we think about each other, we give credit to each other because we get the support of those we think are most important in this country, which are citizens of Serbia. The only thing I don't know is how Mr. Canak, I almost forgot him after I promised to mention him, will vote along with Kostunica for Dulic. Just to explain it to me. How is he gonna monitor how DS and DSS are gonna cooperate? But, well, maybe Mr Batic, too, because he's out walking, he can't replicate, in any case, he'll be in the role of Ahtisaari, too, to propose a certain solution. But in general, the SPS will support any proposal that is here for the democratic work of this Parliament, in order for every MP to have the right to vote, which is to represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to prevent any abuse in parliament, to prevent all possible abuses, and from voting, and through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to everything else. Please, fellow MPs from the ruling majority, to know that you are more important than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not you who have been elected by the Serbian government, but you have chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not only here, but everyone else. There is a parliamentary system in Serbia, there is no office or presidential system. There is a legislative authority in this room. The President of the Assembly is not a errandman from the Government or the President of the Republic. The speaker of the assembly must build the institution's autonomy and dignity. I am glad that some parties have realized that the Law on the National Assembly should be passed. Just don't give it up later. The Law on the National Assembly does not involve wages, privileges, pensions, but implies that this institution, which alone does not have a law on itself in this country, should have some act in which it works. It's a common matter of all MPs. It doesn't matter which party you're from, because when people think bad about MPs, they think bad of everyone. We will not participate in the debate on each of the committee candidates, vice presidents and so on. You made a lot of mistakes last time. You did not understand that the fact that you do not love Tomislav Nikolic or Milutin Mrkonjic means that you can break the principle. That principle must be the same for everyone. I have already said several times, I repeat once again, that there was no correctness, primarily the SRS and the SPS, you would never have replaced these mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you were not on committees that should have verified it. We don't want to act the way you did. Do you think we support your candidates, we don't support them, but we respect that you have the majority and that you have proposed them. Whatever they are, they're yours. You're responsible for them. Do not enter a different atmosphere, otherwise the Assembly will never together choose any delegation, no committee, nothing. I would just remind Mr Dulic that if he is elected, the president of all MPs in this assembly, regardless of who chooses him, and that he has to take care of the democratic procedure in this assembly, that he has to make sure that if we want Serbia to move on rather than be buried in trenches from the past, that we co-operate with each other and argue about the projects, about the laws, not about who's from which party. It's not who it is, it's who it is. On the other hand, never forget, when you climb up there you have to realize that everyone who is now in office is just a future ex, and when you climb up, you meet the same ones you meet when you fall. So take care of how you treat everyone. We'll, I know that, because the SPS and I have been up and down more than once, but in boxing and fighting, and you know that because you've been dealing with martial arts and your family, it's not you, but your family, so it's not hard when you fall, it's important if you can get up. As far as we're concerned, we're not voting for your candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will vote for all the candidates for vice presidents and for all the amendments to the board, even though you didn't vote for our candidates. Let it be a lesson and a lesson that we all have to turn the sheet together, but also change the book, because it's not worth turning a leaf if the book is the same. Thank you. I can't wait to hear what Mr. Canak is going to say, so I can replicate eventually. I would very much like to comment on how he interprets that his party and he will raise his hand himself, since he has already said once that he must sit on his hand when he voted for some people who are now in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that he will now vote again along with the ones that made his hand numb. You'll have to raise your other hand now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1347	I thank Mr. Dacic. The word has Mr. Canak, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1348	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a few things have been said here and I have to answer to Mr. Dacic. First and foremost, it is true that the Government is always trying to instrumentize the Assembly. That's what anyone who's ever been to the Assembly knows. However, it is also a fact that the government, this current one, despises this assembly, because if it were not despised here, the ministers would sit. I prefer ministers to be here, especially Vojislav Kostunica, because when he's here then we know where he is, he's in our eyes. Because when he's not, he's either sleeping or doing real damage. In that sense, I suggest they still show up here when we're here. However, I do not understand Mr Dacic why he favored this assembly so much when he was just one of those who wrote this current Serbian Constitution, which turned the Assembly into a voting machine. While he and his contemporaries were building the Constitution of Serbia, which did not belong to the MP of his mandate, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, with LDP, my smallness, with representatives of our parties sitting here, were ahead of the assembly to protest against that and such a constitution, which delegates the existence of the National Assembly of Serbia and turns it into a simple voting machine. So I really don't understand who you are holding here, Mr. Dacic, a letter about the importance of the assembly when your signature, your consent, your creative contribution to the constitution in Serbia, this assembly, is reduced to mere voting machinery. One more thing I'd like to mention, it's true, sir, that there were irregularities in the government's choice. You don't have to teach anyone that what's been done here is a vermin of superior proportions... Yeah, it's top-notch and it's not right, etc. But there's one more thing I'd like to say, that's how it always starts. Because, don't forget, in 2004, in Novi Sad, when the DSS committees supported the SRS' committees to take over power in the town of Novi Sad, people who had not been certified mandates for directors of public enterprises, who are still in power today. And that's exactly where it started, and why now you're surprised when it happens on this level, when it's not cut into the root, and that's at the local level, when it's supposed to be done in front of justice, which will come at some point, and that simple steps are taken against the abuse of parliamentary and parliamentary mandates at all levels. I'd just like to finish, Mr. Dacic, please make sure that what you did in the past people don't forget, from the constitution that you crouched during the night of last year to the things that happened before that. And your downs and ups, I totally understand them, we've all had our downs and ups, only the point is what the ratio of the downs and ups is. You haven't fallen enough yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1349	Thank you, Mr. Chank. Replica, Mr. Todorovic, and Mr. Dacic. I apologize to Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1350	I apologize, Mr. Todorovic, to take advantage of the fact that Mrkonjic is the chairman. I'm kidding, of course. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure to make it clear, there must be a member of the Rules of Procedure that I picked up. I'm just quoting the chairman, Milutin Mrkonjic, when he handed over his powers to Radojko Obradovic. I'm kidding, it's a member of the Rules of Procedure who's talking about wrong interpretation. Mr. Canak misread me because I certainly didn't think I was convincing him that he should vote for Oliver Dulic. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: It is, then, a replica.]] I agree with him and ask DS representatives, I would also ask DSS representatives, but I do not know where they are, why this act is not attended by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic. This is the humiliation of the Assembly, the election of the president of the National Assembly. Of course, I'm not talking about the act of elections, but when the president of the assembly is elected, he is the president of the highest body in the Republic of Serbia. But it doesn't matter now. But, Mr. Canak, I thank you so much for exaggerating my role in recent and further history. I agree with you that our role is great and that it is still great, but I am still a modest man and I would like to admit that my role was almost nothing in writing this constitution, unlike Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, and other parties who participated in all this. All parties supported this constitution, except for your party and coalition. And I don't know why you've demonstrated, you've probably demonstrated against Kostunica and Boris Tadic, since you're watching them now, but in any case feel free to demonstrate against them, I don't mind. This constitution, it is true, is written faster than any constitution at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, but contact them for which you vote today. I'm surprised that's not what you were involved in, because you'd be a little more stylishly beautiful. But in any case, whether the mandates will belong to MPs or parties, if it is a proportionate electoral system, the mandates must belong to the lists on which those MPs were. Of course, there is a different interpretation, but Serbia must never return to the time when the parliamentary mandate will be the subject of the stock market and trade. Will you be here again to Bogoljub Karic, Banet Ivkovic and all others, or I don't know who else to mention in history, so that the government survives either the parliamentary majority, or the government falls or survives because of the purchase of the mandate. That is the only reason the SPS supports the idea that the MP can entrust his mandate to the party, according to the Constitution. After all, I am not the creator of this idea, I think he is the creator of this idea, Tomislav Nikolic, and I hope that he will explain the idea well. I thank you for your compliments, when I write the next constitution, of course you'll be on the team to write at least a preamble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1351	Thank you, Dacic. Mr. Dragan Todorovic answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's simply touching when Mr Nenad Canak comes out and shows how concerned he is about the development of democracy, respect for laws and institutions. He had a chance to show it. Immediately after the October 5th coup, Mr. Canak became president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Don't think at all that Mr. Nenad Canak was a vampire or something, that he's become president now, so they don't know their former friends, associates, etc. No, on the contrary, he did his utmost from that place to help his friends, who were unhappy with the circumstances, to cope with the problem in any way. Remember, it was an affair about an organization, I think it was called the Company, whose head was Nenad Opacic. This gentleman is otherwise known as part of a Surcin or Zemun clan... Nenad Canak, from the town of Veteran. I'm sorry, so I see that you're getting to know each other, it's nothing at all. They were involved in trade, but in drug trafficking, i.e. funds banned under the law. Now, this Mr. Opacic, as Mr. Nenada Chanka's great friend, I appreciate that, who didn't want to give him up, fell into prison. What Mr. Nenad Canak would rather do than help his friend, so he did everything possible to get him out of New Sad prison to Zrenjaninski, where under the circumstances the warden of that prison was a member of Mr. Nenad Chanka's party, to enable him to get through the difficult days as easily as possible and to somehow feel the grace of friendship with Nenad Chanka. So, Mr. Canak, when you're transferring something to someone, just look behind you. As far as this case is concerned, I don't know about this event. In principle, as a member of the SRS, we have never, never advocated, nor will we advocate any violation of any regulation or law, and all and anyone who has broken them, I think not only should, but also must respond when, you know it best on this side, there will come a time when you will have to lay down accounts for everything you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1353	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Nenad Canak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1354	As far as this is concerned about the City of Novi Sad Assembly, I'm really surprised that you don't know about the situation in the second largest city in Serbia, for the simple reason that the victory of the SRS in Novi Sad in 2004, I just can't believe that after that you forgot to do it completely. As for Nenad the Opaci, I must say that you have a feather, and your legs smell. This has the same thing to do with the discussion as Nenad Opačić did with what I was talking about the situation in the vote in this assembly and about the election of the directors of public enterprises in Novi Sad by committee members who have not verified the mandate. It's this quality of yours that when someone catches you in manipulation, in lies, in everything you've been doing to this people for years, then you start throwing... Please make sure I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1355	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1356	You start throwing away, you start using your radical tricks, which are just about to pull out things that I've done hundreds of times... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Is that true? ) It is not true, a dry and fresh radical lie, which you have spoken, as you have many times since, trying to plow your political opponents. It's the key to your success. First of all, I'm going to say one more important thing: what I just did, I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I know that. I've injured the Rules of Procedure in the article in which it is said - it's not allowed to mention things from personal life and that relate to the MP himself. I apologize to Mr. Todorovic, and I apologize to his hair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1357	Thank you, Mr. Chank. Mr Tomislav Nikolic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that there are people, unfortunately here are MPs, who are not only not satisfied with constitutional solutions, but are acting against the constitution in public appearances. Serbia is a democratic country, so it is allowed. But if the only reason is Article 102(2). The constitution that you are against the Constitution, then you have no reason to be against the Serbian Constitution. For the first time in Serbia's history, the MP received some kind of freedom. So, now the MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose list he was elected as a MP. Now the MP is free to put his term in office. You talk to him, Mr. Canak, and you say, "Give me your resignation," and he says, "No, I'm free to do it, I can do it, and I don't have to, I'm free." It's one of the best provisions of the Constitution, so good that the Venice Commission was turning around, twisting like a snake around a tree how it would resent it without being attached to a formula that was nicely arranged. Yeah, she was a little sick about some things, but that's what we said. I'm only asking the SRS MPs to rely on my experience when I tell you that you don't have to argue with Mr. Chanka. That's what I'm telling you as a peasant, working child. In order for something to get fat, you have to feed it. So if you don't feed Mr. Chank, he'll be forced to deal with politics. He's ideally involved in politics by arguing with radicals. Then he's threatened, then he defends someone's rights there, then he fires, and he says, "You're the ideology of blood and soil." He knows we're not, but he could use the votes of those who can believe it. Unlike Mr. Chank, I allow him to use any political method to collect votes. It's perfectly justified to me, only that sheep don't use goats. That's the most important thing. So, here you go, Mr. Canak, the pay phone is yours, the public appearances are yours, and there's an SRS MP's group, but only if you want us to really talk about serious things. And about whether you left any unpleasant scents here when you left the pay phone... (Nenad Chanak, from the post: It's from the previous speaker. I didn't see you complaining about the smell, that's what's left after you. I'm too serious to talk about this with you, but I'm willing to talk about Serbia, what you object to the Constitution, what you object to solutions for the province of Vojvodina in which you live, what you need to do to raise tolerance, democracy, to allow the laws and economy to work. You know very well that this government can't expect it at all. But don't expect the SRS to help you have a certain number of votes. That's what I say to some minority members, who, in public appearances, rarely call on the SRS and say -- we have to fight them, they're these, they're them -- and you're afraid of a number of citizens you count on to vote for you. So you're dealing with an extremely serious parliamentary group, with a democratically profiled political party, which is absolutely proven, if not earlier, and that in the last 10 days of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Stay away from that. You push again on the Democratic Party and Kostunica, I strongly advise you, there are still some votes you might be looking for. And what has been defined for the SRS, it will no longer be kidnapped by God, I tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1359	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Todorovic, the replica, so Mr. Canak, the replica again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1360	Mr. Canak, I assume you've been passing through some scents, so you've made a mistake. Here, I'll let you smell everything good and see if that court of yours was right. As far as the events in Novi Sad are concerned, I'm surprised that you as a Novosadian, as a man of interest, did not say, among other things, because I found out right away in the meantime, that a presentation was sent to the Minister for Local Self-Government, Mr. Loncar, and that the Minister for Local Self-Government was his solution, after examining the whole case, said that everything was in accordance with the law. So, Mr. Canak, consider what kind of supervised support you are now giving to the man most suggesting, in which Mr. Loncar is the new minister, not for local self-government, but for education, but he is de facto in the majority proposed by the candidate for the president of the Assembly, to whom you provide supervised support. Mr. Canak, you should consider that oversight in your own case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1361	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. He has the word Mr. Canak. I'd like these dribble masters to transfer the game from the center to the goal and finish the agenda. Because we have 24 debaters yet, please. Come on, be straight. (Zeljka Radeta, from the place: What does it matter? It's important. And I can say something right now in the end, something nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your kind proposal to make us smell. But believe me, I smell radicals far away. It's okay. I was going to say something else. The Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia have caused huge dissatisfaction with their behaviour in Novi Sad. A presentation was sent to Minister Lonchar. He, of course, turned from the Democratic Party of Serbia, by a party order one notor truth into a notorious lie, which is that everything is fine. While there is no independent judiciary in this country, while there is no possibility that such things can be clearly proven in this country, there will be no opportunity to correct such injustice, and then we will all suffer together in this very high house. As for Mr Dulic, and I would like to conclude, I will no longer replicate to anyone, a group of duke MPs will vote for Mr Dulic because we in Vojvodina know each other well enough, we know who people are and how they can behave. A man is measured not by what he's capable of, but by what we're sure he's not capable of. Mr. Dulic is unable to run this assembly badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1363	Mr. Pastor, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djuric. He's giving up? Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1364	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Union of Roma Serbia, I support the proposal to elect Mr. Dulic as president. (Tomislav Nikolic: He cannot be chosen. We understand each other, Mr. Nikolic, I studied philosophy and doctored, please don't, kindly, Mr. Nikolic, you said nicely that Mr. God created the world in six days, and you rocked him in just two days. I congratulate you on that, Mr. Nikolic. So, to continue, I believe that the previous sessions of the National Assembly have already carved enough signs into the minds and minds of both people and citizens of Serbia, so that they can see better and more clearly which political parties persistently mutate water, from which we unfortunately must drink all of them, and our children, and our parents, and the peasant, and the worker, and the student, and the pensioner and recipient of social assistance, from the child who has not yet walked, to the one who lies on the deathbed in this dear country of Serbia. We are definitely, ladies and gentlemen, convinced of the willingness of people to spend, unfortunately, their strength and time so on or, better or more specifically, to encourage and challenge each other's divisions and divisions, even those divisions once written by Dobrica Ćosic, to make Serbia, to forgive the expression, which, as Mesa Selimovic once told me personally, seems to be constantly boiling in it, but in no way is it allowed to reach the point of boiling. Had it been luck, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to devote so much time to the historical problems of our country, the life issues of our country and its citizens, it seems to me that many things would be clearer and cleaner today in our country. Not to dispute, ladies and gentlemen, we all belong to certain political parties, we differ in opinion, we represent different opinions. Nevertheless, we live in a country called Serbia and are all responsible to the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian people and national minorities. A man who isn't responsible, as many learned people have said, he shouldn't be involved in politics, he shouldn't be wasting other people's time, because our time is our life and who's trampling on our time is walking at the same time our lives. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, in this hour of Serbia, as perhaps never before, it is a necessary big and responsible policy. Big policy, because Serbia's problems are so to the sky. Responsible policy; I returned from Warsaw the day before yesterday, from the OSCE conference, where talks were held, among other things, on Kosovo. And to be friendly, honestly, do you know who firmly opposed independent Kosovo: only Macedonians and Roma at the OSCE conference that ended four days ago. That's why I'm saying today... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Guric. )......................................................................................................... We need a big and responsible policy, a policy that will help us to gain confidence in Europe, in a large part of the world, because I fear, if we do not get the right experience out of it, that this can inevitably end with undesirable consequences, which would then inevitably be felt by all of us, and above all by our children. In the end, Mr. Chairman, I must say, my people, Rommie, you had a chance to see for yourself this morning, to get hurt in the dumps. One of them disappeared at a dump in Vinci. In Nis, read the "Today's" list, the Roma woman and her family lived in the morgue for 24 years. My people, the vast majority, more than 300 thousand people, don't know what daily bread is anymore, but unfortunately we're not able to ask these serious, dramatic, almost tragic questions, because we're constantly overrunning a rope that can crack, but on the back of peoples and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1365	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Which member of the Rules of Procedure, please, just tell the MPs. Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1366	I wanted, Mr. Chairman, to warn you of one fact: whenever I enter the hall Rajko Djuric speaks according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't know, if he doesn't know that, I'd ask my government colleagues, who he voted for, to get to know him about someone answering for a word. He has the right to speak, but he has no right to lecture anyone here in the Rules of Procedure. What member of the Rules of Procedure did he advertise? Did he answer the word, Mr. Grouchy? Did he answer the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Djuric, you explain to your voters what you voted for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether you are the government or the opposition here, and who you are more complaining about. You're part of the ruling structure. I understand that someone can vote for the President of Parliament, the Vice President, but the vote for the Government, and you are not in power: whom you are more distracting, please. This isn't your literary evening, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or I don't think you go to the benefit of the voters who chose you. I'm sure the voters didn't choose you to support this government. If you've already supported this government, why didn't you join the government? Which resort you run here, except you're in charge of attacking political opponents. When someone doesn't want to attack you from the ruling party, they plant Rajko Djuric. Answer the word free, don't use the Rules of Procedure again. I know you've written a lot of things in your life, but you haven't been able to write your Rules of Procedure yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1367	Mr. Dacic, anyone who came for this pay phone answered the question. So, he answered, he answered. Well, when you're president, then you decide, now I decide what to do. Think about who you're proposing for president in the future. Mr. Pastor, probably according to the Rules of Procedure. Ah, as chief, here you go, Mr. Pastor. Please don't throw it away. Mr. Pastor, as head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1368	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, due to the months-long presence of the devastating and irresponsible political trenching of the parties who, in the last minutes of the constitutional deadline, have formed a government, we have come to the situation that the President of the National Assembly is elected after the oath of members of the government. This esteemed home last passed some law in September last year, but some problems persist in solving it twice. The best example is the election of the National Assembly president in two circles. For the first time, it's a trial variant, and it's only the second time that it's like the final version, and we'll see if it is. For this solution to the problem in this assembly, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and other parties that make up the parliamentary group of minorities cannot be held accountable, but is concerned that we are in a huge delay in legislative activity. Some legal proposals, such as Important for improving the position of minorities in the Republic of Serbia, they cannot be found on the agenda of the National Assembly, as it has been in the blockade for months. I hope that today we will conclude the constitution of the National Assembly and that we will no longer deal with ourselves, but we will begin to carry out those obligations under the Constitution in our jurisdiction. I have already said in the election of the first president of the National Assembly that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and other parties, which have formed a parliamentary group of minorities, are ready to support a candidate for parliament's president behind whom a consensus of parties to form a government stands. The agreement on the President of Parliament was considered part of the agreement on a new government. Finally thanks, I must say, to the constructive holding of the opposition last week, at the last minute a new one is formed, hopefully stable, and hopefully efficient, hopefully democratic, and hopefully the pro-European government. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians did not vote in favour of the government, because we will never support a government that even at the declarative level does not deal with the issues of improving the position of national minorities, whose prime minister does not say a single word of what he will do in the interest of the AP Vojvodina obtaining financial autonomy, which belongs to it under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or which government does not care whether local self-government will finally have its property again. Because of all of this, we cannot support the government's policy so far, but the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will certainly be part of the new parliamentary majority. We are unreservedly prepared to vote on any legislative proposal that contributes to the approximation of the EU and democratisation, the economic strengthening of Serbia and, of course, a greater degree of protection of minority rights. We'll also have our legal proposals. Because we are consistent with earlier views on the election of the National Assembly president, we will support Mr Oliver Dulic's election as National Assembly President, but we consider it natural that we also have expectations for the candidate for this significant function, which I would like to say a few words about. We are pleased that the Subotican will be the head of the Assembly, which should understand the problems of the national minorities, primarily those living in the area from which he himself encourages. I hope that Mr Dulic supports the aspirations of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians that Radio Subotici, which has been broadcasting its programme for more than 38 years in four languages, Serbian, Hungarian, Croatian and German, and in the future carry out its very important mission. We hope that, in the interest of all citizens of Northern Bacakh, regardless of their national membership, Oliver Dulic, as president of the National Assembly, will put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Radio-Difusion Act, according to which amendments would exempt the media broadcasting their programmes and minority languages from mandatory privatisation and continue their work as a public service. This legislative proposal, which is in the interest not only of Hungary, but of the entire Subotics and the whole region, the MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will hand over to parliament within ten days and we are at the disposal of additional consultations. We also hope that Oliver Dulic feels the importance and necessity of subotica finally becoming a city, both in a formal and essential sense, and that he is ready in the interest of doing everything from this significant function, which according to the Constitution is practically the second most important position in the state, and that they are realising for our municipality very important projects. If so, then Mr. Dulic will always find a partner in the MPs of the Alliance of Dukes Hungarians. We also hope that the future president of the National Assembly and the former head of the Northern District will act with their reputation at the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz, Senta, Choka and the New Duke of Transport to the administrative district based in Subotica. This is not only to change one extremely harmful and anachronous political decision from the 1990s, but to a significant extent to simplify and make people's lives cheaper in these municipalities. Of course we are aware that the president of the National Assembly must not favour his city at the expense of other parts of the Republic of Serbia, we do not expect Mr Dulic to do so. We only expect from you, Mr. Dulic, that, of course, by respecting the provisions of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, you will fulfill the promises you made to the citizens of Subotica after the election of the People's MP. With the choice of bearer of the second most significant functions in the country, you will indeed have all the means and opportunities. In case that's the case, our advance support will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1369	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1370	Earlier, a speaker in a similar tone spoke about something that in Serbia is the obligation of every citizen, especially every MP. So don't expect Mr. Dulic to help the rights of national minorities just because he's from Subotica, so he knows the situation as well. This means that you do not expect anything from us who do not live in Subotica, and yet you will need at least 126 votes for any decision, Mr. Dulic cannot do it alone. Don't throw us away when you're talking about helping you get the people you belong to to to live as best as possible, because we understand that, and we have members of your people in our MP group. The fact that Mr. Dulic is from Subotica is not recommended that he solves your problems best. The whole of Serbia needs to solve everyone's problems, the problem of minorities in particular, with all the analyses and all the reports saying that we have already dealt with it in an extraordinary way, we can only improve. As far as the county's restructuring is concerned, you could have asked Mr. Dulic when he was head of the district, not now that he's president of the National Assembly. Restrict yourself that in this assembly you need the support of a large number of MPs, don't make it up to you from Subotica, or you from Vojvodina, or you from Kragujevac, or you from Piroth. We're all indivisible and we all bear the same fate. That's why I'd like you to avoid even conflicting over something that won't be the basis for a conflict between us at all. I already consider that some kind of discrimination. I would never say that the Subotic Hungarians don't understand Serbs, that they don't understand me who I am from Kragujevac. You're getting wet, and so is Mr. Chank, but I understand him, but you're getting lost that whoever's from Subotica will understand you best. That's not true. Just don't close. Spread your ties and your co-operation with all Serbian citizens, only so you can convince me that we are indeed in one country and in one National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1371	Mr. Srdjan Shane, let Mr. Laslo Varga be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two things why the Roma Party has decided to support the vote for Mr Dulic. One thing is because it is not a demonstration of possible scenarios in encouraging certain political positions, such as, unfortunately, it has been happening in this assembly's work so far, but it is the result of an agreement that the Assembly needs to take forward. The other thing is because we know Mr. Dulic personally, and we think that two things are very important to him, one thing is because he is young, and the other thing is because Mr. Dulic worked with us in Subotica, I speak with the Roma Party, in the process of Roma integration. The other thing is, I can't accept putting myself in a position or opposition to someone because someone votes for the government, someone doesn't vote for the government. I believe that MPs are committed according to the proposals, and whoever formed the government is the majority, the government is the state, and every MP has the right to vote the way he thinks and the way he feels. On the other hand, I think it's a good thing that the Assembly is heading one new direction, because after that, when the DSS gave me one seat on the board, after the SRS gave me one seat on the board, the DS has now proposed a minority representative to be president of the Assembly. What we expect further from Mr. Dulic is the following things. We hope that Mr. Dulic will create an opportunity for minorities to participate in an adequate manner. I hope that Mr Dulic will influence that minority representatives have an adequate place and MPs from the minority list in the work of this assembly, that it will not happen, as two months ago, that someone is not invited to consult just because he is a representative of minorities and is not a member of the parliamentary club. In this regard, I expect him to advocate the adoption of the new Serbian Parliament's rules of procedure and that the rules of procedure must separate two things. First, to enable MPs of national minorities, i.e. the lists of national minorities, to participate effectively in the work of the Assembly, not to force them to participate in the work of certain parliamentary clubs. We believe that the difference between this electoral law and the election law that was clear, that in these elections, representatives of the bearers of certain political ideas were given the opportunity to participate in the realization of these political ideas, and the realization of political ideas does not just involve voting. Realising this political idea implies defining the idea, defending the consultation process and ultimately participating in the debate. I have the possibility, as an independent MP, to take part in the debate now, but if one day there are four independent MPs, then in this Rules of Procedure we can't do it and then it's not democratic, then it's not based on the Constitution, because every MP needs to be made available, whether he is in the MP's club or not, to present his opinion, and especially if he represents an authentic political idea. What we also expect from you is that you participate, together with us, when we propose a declaration of implementation of the Decade of Roma, but not in a way that only gets support for the majority, because we think it should be one of Serbia's strategic documents and we expect support, for the second time I repeat here for the speaker, and the representatives of the SRS, and the G17 plus, and the SPS and other parties that participate in the formation of the majority, of course, of the LDP and the Vojvodjan coalition, because we believe that the issue of Roma integration, the issue of the social most vulnerable group in Serbia, should not be a question of creating a majority or minority in the Serbian Parliament. I agree with Mr Tomislav Nikolic when he says that the issue of minorities must be a question of all political parties in the Serbian Parliament and in this sense it must be a question of defining this declaration to the issue of all political parties in the Serbian Parliament, because we know very well that at different levels political parties carry a different majority. We have somewhere in municipalities and cities where radicals are in power, we have somewhere where DS is in power and other political parties, and we believe that if this issue is not a matter of agreement for all in the Assembly, as it is clear when you talk to Serbian citizens that all Serbian citizens want Roma integration, then this assembly is not the interest of Serbian citizens, this assembly is politics. I am convinced that indeed Mr Dulic will help us to bring our interests into line and define such a declaration that will have the absolute support of all 250 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1373	Thank you, Mr. Shane. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Gojko Radic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1374	When speaking from this pay phone, it would be good not to speak on behalf of all citizens, but we can only refer to those citizens who voted for our parties or for representatives in this house, not on behalf of the citizens of Subotica. Mr. Pastor, I accept that you are young and that you may not remember or have been involved in politics at the time, but three years ago, at least you might know, that today's candidate for Parliament President Oliver Dulic has called as a candidate for the president of the Municipality of Subotica to give him support as a presidential candidate, not to your candidate for the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, with every public appearance that he will demonstrate the system of the Vojvodina Hungarian Union. I may not be familiar with the election of the new President of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, but I'd like to know if you have a new programme and the party statutes, so you may have changed your principles and your programme, so let me see what you're up for, if something new has happened with the election of a new president, and now you're advocating something different. When the last parliamentary elections for the Serbian Parliament were, you had completely different views and the confrontation, the even calling, that I wasn't going back so much, and you complained that you lost the strongest coalition partner, that Mr. Dulic had taken from you the Alliance of Vojvodina Croats. I don't understand how you suddenly see it in that same candidate and man that he's going to work so well with you. I don't want to talk about the Roma, because I don't have the right, but just to remind the gentleman of the representatives of the Roma community here in parliament, in Subotica DS, as well as the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, they didn't want to accept, under any circumstances, a representative of the Roma to enter the Council of National Minorities. Then I don't understand where you're so convinced and what information you have and what representatives of Roma from Saturday you're talking to, when your Roma representatives came to my office, talked to the opposition, tried to enter the local parliament, the National Council, and failed. The DS and the Grand Duchy of Hungarians didn't accept that. I don't know how you get that information, and who from Subotica is supplying you with information, when in this context you can speak and call on the Saturdays and the Roma from Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1375	Thank you, Mr. Radic, Mr. Damjanovic, just a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Mr. Dulic can respect as a man from this House, and for his work and for his support to the free political parties or shooters, we can't give categorization -- he worked for my campaign, he worked for it, and that's why I support him. I can only say, as a man from the Roma community, what the SRS did, but really, for the Roma. So we have facts. What I'm supposed to say now is, what are the people of the Radical Party supposed to be, because they're the most fake, and the truth is, they did it for the Roma people. We know the roads, the sewers, the plumbing and the houses we built now in Zemun, there was a huge flood, and I can see we're not waving much. The fact that we're done for the Roma people. I was called by a man from Deronj, many here know him, Mr. Jovanovic, and said to Damjanović, I am grateful to the SRS in Kula, in Deronj, where Mr. Cuk President, no one has ever entered the Roma settlement, now the radicals have come, I have not worked, but they are building us here asphalt, infrastructure and I am very grateful. Please, if we measure who did what for the Roma community in reality and fact, then don't forget that the largest integration in the Roma community has made the SRS. I respect all the political parties, I have nothing against anyone, this is democratic, tell me in the democratic system, when you say the greatest echo of democracy was in those democratic parties, which I respect, tell me how many Roma you have here. You don't have any. What democracy is it if you don't have national minorities, and we know that democracy is if minority nations are respected. So there's no place in this democracy of the minority people. In the SRS, the precedent was made, which the whole world knows, chosen by the minister and this minister did much for his Roma people. In this term, MP Roma, I am Roma, so I was born and I will stay and die, but what the SRS has done is commend all Roma in this Serbia. If anyone has the right to speak of the Roma, I and the SRS as representatives of the SRS, the Roma, because the most Roma vote in favour of the SRS. Let me tell you, many don't know here, the World Congress of Roma, the highest professional organization in the world, representing 12 million Roma in the whole world, followed and knew everything the SRS did for the Roma community. The World Congress of Roma has awarded the greatest charter it can award, the Charter of Friendship and Integration of Roma, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1377	Mr. Suleiman Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure, please state a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 100 has been injured. Mr. Djuric and Mr. Shane just left. I understand why they'll vote for Mr. Dulic. Their political option is visible, which side they're on. I don't agree with them for saying that they are the most endangered layer of Roma citizens. I'll remind you, gentlemen, if you remember correctly, as Mr. Djuric said, that 300,000 Roma are the most endangered, I'll say it's not true. You remember the beautiful weddings, especially Roma, with helicopters, one of the richest people in Serbia are Roma. Thank God, there's a larger number of Roma citizens who haven't, they've come to a degree that they can't support themselves and what happened in Nis is one way of not caring about these people, but don't just say that the Roma are the most endangered. Other Serbian citizens, especially after October 5th, are also at risk. There are two million unemployed, just like Roma, and so don't just go out and say that Serbian citizens are at risk, but all citizens at this time, who have been the government since 5 October, are all at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1379	Replica, MP Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1380	Let's listen to each other. We don't listen and then we talk about what we don't hear well, we comment. The difference between the only people at risk and the most threatened is great. Check the stenogram, I said the Roma are the most endangered social category in Serbia. Whoever doesn't believe me, I'll give the information, and whoever didn't listen to what the Roma Party was saying in the campaign, and last time, I'll tell him again. Our programme is next - when Serbia builds 10,000 apartments, it takes 800 apartments to be for endangered categories such as Roma. We said Serbia must create 100,000 new jobs and out of those 100,000 new jobs that eight% of new jobs for the Roma must be created. So don't try to frame me, I didn't say that, and because you didn't listen, it's really not my fault. As for Subotica, I said very clearly, not to support what the current majority is doing in Subotica, I was talking about Mr. Dulic's name and name. We talked to him about certain things, how to run some things about education and Roma culture in Subotica. He had hearing. However, I am aware of the facts you are talking about, that neither Subotic nor Novi Sad have the majority to get into the councils for international relations, and that's not good, and that's a real picture of Serbia, and that's politics in both parliaments. I did not say that the congregation in Subotica or the congregation in Novi Sad leads in an adequate way politics on the Roma. Therefore, I pray we understand each other. We're talking about a candidate here, the agenda is a candidate, not the agenda of municipal policy in Subotica, Novi Sad or some other stuff. I would like to repeat once again, I have made it very clear and commended that the SRS and the DSS have created space to participate in the work of the board, which is not defined by the Rules of Procedure that way. I made it very clear that when the candidate was voted last time, that I would participate in the work of the committee and that I had not left the work of the Assembly, because if I had left the work of the Assembly I would not have participated in the work with you on board. So if someone's answer is to sort someone out, then let them do it with themselves. I made myself clear when I stayed in the assembly, and today when I voted for Mr. Dulic. Therefore, let each one address his constituents, let each one address the citizens of Serbia, but let us not put everything under the same hat. I hope you haven't forgotten some of the campaign words, they haven't forgotten mine either. I hope that you, as a representative of the Roma Party and a representative of the voters who voted for me, will separate me from your daily political debates. Talk to your voters about your ideas, your programs, as I speak to my voters, and let us see that on the ground, what needs to be done is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1381	The word is Mr. Todorovic, so Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shain, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that while making claims that some national minorities in Serbia are the most endangered you are making sure that there is a part of Serbia in which the most vulnerable Serbs, as well as Roma, and also other members of other national minorities, which is Kosovo and Metohija. If you take how Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija and how Roma live in other parts of Serbia, then you will realize that these things, unfortunately, cannot be compared. This is the problem Serbia is facing, which we must address and we hope to solve with the help of this parliament. What is fundamental when it comes to the SRS, we do not want to point out in any way that we have done something special to one or another national minority. We have done it for the citizens of Serbia, and which they belong to the nation, the religion, for the SRS, it does not matter at all. In situations where we were, in local self-governments where we were in power, we did everything we could to make life easier for all Serbian citizens, and we were especially trying where their situation was most difficult, and that was normally related to settlements in which members of the Roma national minority live.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1383	Here you go, Mr. Djuric, and let Mr. Laszlo Varga be prepared. Is it a Rules of Procedure or a replica? Replica
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1384	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a man who likes to lead the polemics in parliament, but unfortunately this time I'm forced to present Mr. Dacic first. As you can see yourself very rarely, almost never, I don't mention people. My subject of conversation, of exposure are questions and problems above all. I must say, although I've studied philosophy and taught logic in various high schools that such originality of logic as Mr. Dacic's I haven't had the opportunity to see, because Mr. Dacic, you've had the opportunity to see for yourself, he says, he wants fruit, but he refuses pears and apples, or when he wants pears and apples, he doesn't accept fruit. Mr. Dacic, it's an unworthy man who can think and who knows what the principles and laws of logic are. And now for the Roma. It's not nice to share any national minority or Roma minority. In the election campaign, our slogan was "Roma above all divisions", because we Roma experienced the most tragic division. Dimitrije Tucovic, the one who was once apologized to by King Petar I, ladies and gentlemen, spoke about the Roma and the tragic situation at the time of the elections in Serbia, because their voices were then bought for a liter of brandy and a kilo of flour. I won't look back on that. Of course I totally agree, that's what I have convinced myself, that there is, I admit, the president of the municipalities of the SRS who has a fantastic understanding for my people. I'll state specifically, it's the president of the Aleksinac municipality, why don't I speak plainly, I thank him warmly from this place. Of course there are people from the SPS who have an amazing understanding for the Roma. I've met myself, but there's also a president of municipalities from various other parties. But that's not the problem, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that in Serbia 800,000 Roma live in 1,222 settlements. The only municipality where there is no Roma is the municipality of Kosjerić and that is the people who live in the ninth circle of hell. There are, of course, those who rent helicopters for weddings, but a huge number no longer knows what bread is. Of course there are Serbs, there are women mothers who break their hands, because they don't know how they're gonna spend that day, which is what they're gonna send their children to school and how to meet them, but it's our fault. Politics, the result of which is zero, deserves to be anulated. Please, Mr. Vice President, I'm finishing up. I've been reading an unusual study these days, a journal of the future. It's about how the people will live tomorrow, from gasoline, coal, science and so on. Gentlemen, they've calculated by 2056 how many rainwaters they're going to collect, and we don't know how we're going to live for the next 56 minutes. Finally, Mr. Todorovic, I highly appreciate you. I understand, we should not respect the arguments of individual American or Western European politicians. I had a personal chance to listen to the father of the current American President Bush at the ASPEN Institute in Berlin, but you are referring to the Russians. I deeply respect Mr Putin, Russian politics, Russian state. But here's Mr. Jeljcin's book in German and English. In German it is the midnight diary and the entire capital, the whole chapter is dedicated to Kosovo, and Mr Jeljcin detailed who is responsible for Kosovo, meaning Resolution 1244 and what the Kuman agreement meant, which Mr Nikolic himself told me was the text of Mrs Mira Markovic. It's here anyway, so we can face it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1385	Mr. Zarko Obradovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Gojko Radic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've volunteered to replicate, or point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Mr Đurić has one custom, and this shows not for the first time, and to this he is distracted, it would be his turn not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, they have the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which give him the right to do so. It is not correct to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but it is possible, we see it, and it is not correct to mention a man who is not here in the O.R. Compared to the time Mr. Dacic spoke, it seems to me, one 40 minutes. The whole time Mr. Dacic was sitting there and Mr. Djuric had the opportunity to answer him in relation to what he said, and possibly what he disagreed with, but he did not. He's acting, in fact, now we've seen the same scenario as a few days ago, saved speech, written a day or two before, and then it's read here, and then, I don't say, it's a certain philosophical observation about the time before, what it was, if it were, etc. Mr. Djuric, now Mr. Dacic will come down, return to the Assembly Hall, so please tell him what you have when you look at him in front of you. Don't use time when he's not in the O.R. to answer you. Otherwise, about the time before, I really skipped the subject last time, but when you mentioned the time before, it would be interesting for you to tell us, Mr. Djuric, what you wrote about Serbs and Serbs in the '90s. One of the readers of "Politics" in the section "Among Us", offered your exposure the night Mr. Toma Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly, she said - it would be good to hear that he reminds us of what 95/96 is. For years, he wrote about Serbia and Serbs. So let's see this consistency or inconsistency in the consistency that you're showing, so let's tell us what you're saying then, so let's see what moral credibility is that you enjoy giving us here lessons. You didn't answer her, but for the first time I've consciously failed to remind you of that, but now I think it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1387	Thank you. The word is Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1388	When I was talking about the National Minority Council, I wasn't talking about who he was with, because then I'd have a lot to tell you, that there were some blackmails in the local parliament and so on. I don't want to talk about it right now. When we talk about citizens and about those who chose us, then we have to say that the SRS received something less in Subotica, not a thousand votes was the difference between SVM and SRS. It's only about comparisons, how many citizens have trust in the SRS and your party, Mr. Pastor. To talk, to call and ask for Radio Saturday and to privatize the media with some special privilege or I don't know what, why don't you talk to your president, former president, Joseph Kasi, he passed a law with DOS in 2002 on media privatisation. That's when the SRS wrote the amendments and said it was a bad law, that it wasn't a good law. You were in favor of him at the time. You were in favor of such a law. Now you're bothered by such a law. Once you've defined yourself, is something good or bad. If it's bad, then it's bad and then it's bad now. You can't ask for exceptions now to be exceptions, and then when you had the Deputy Prime Minister, then you were fine. Then no law bothered you. How is it that now these laws, which you have passed with your coalition partners in DOS, have been good, and now suddenly you are calling and asking for the revision of certain laws to be carried out or to create certain reliefs or privileges even certain municipalities in implementing privatisation. The law exists, the law is written. You took part in the adoption of such a law. Then why bother you with such a law, unless you want to make your own decisions when privatizing or buying Radio Subotica, so that you still have control over that medium, to implement your policy and place what suits you, not what the citizens of Subotica really need and what they should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1389	The word is Mr. Todorovic, a replica of Mr. Djuric's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1390	Mr. Djuric, it is indisputable that every moment, when he wants to describe some events and his own role in these events, he tries to present himself in the best light and in some ways exclude his own responsibility. I think we're going to have opportunities, not just for us, but for the world, to have all events related to the NATO pact's cease-fire, Resolution 1244 and the Kuman Treaty, one day without these passions to get all the facts, all the data. But what is extremely important to us, especially for the SRS, could Boris Jeljcin at some point believe that Serbia's leadership has somehow contributed to the situation in which it came, but what the indisputable fact in the 99th year, the Russians did not attack Serbia, did not bomb Serbia. Today, Russian leadership, led by Vladimir Putin, defends Serbian national interests, defends the United Nations Charter, defends international rights against those who swear democracy, whose eyes are facing the West. You took away our Kosovo and the Metohija, and you're trying to take away our Kosovo and the Metohija. Thanks to Russia's firm stance and insistence on respecting the Charter of the United Nations and respect for international rights, the new Security Council resolution clearly will not pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1391	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Ivica Dacic, I assume a replica of Mr. Djuric's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1392	I would ask all MPs who want to replicate something with me to do it right now, because I have some obligations, not when I get out. I sat here for an hour and Mr. Rajko Djuric remembered to come out on the line after my presentation for an hour. Here's to explaining, what's so controversial about what I said. I just invited you, Mr. Djuric, that whatever you are a member of the minority, highly respected and appreciated, you must respect the Rules of Procedure. And that means that you keep reporting for the word in the Rules of Procedure, not on the basis of what is provided for by the Rules of Procedure, which you have the right to do. And this time you called in a word on the Rules of Procedure, and you were talking about some issues that had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for logic, I'm not sure it has much to do with logic that it supports your electoral body and how you vote here in parliament. Your electoral body, Mr. Djuric, lives in very difficult conditions. A large number of children are illiterate, living hard, having bad living conditions, begging in the streets. I guess it's not about choosing you to support the government, it's about fighting for their interests. You know well that you cannot represent yourself as the only Roma in this House. I would ask you to stop more, this parliament has become a competition which among you Roma is a larger supporter of the government of the Republic of Serbia or who is a bigger Serb than Serbs, or a larger anti-Serbian than some who do not like Serbs. Take care of the problems of those who chose you, let you worry about other political parties. I'm really asking that if you want to replicate, don't wait for a chance when I get out of the O.R. If you have so much courage, come out and replicate here in front of everyone. I'll wait five minutes, and I'll go out if anyone has a replication to replicate. But you have no right to reply, so please give him your word in the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, you do whatever you want. You've been elected to the election. Just, Mr. Djuric, let me tell you, you've been elected to the election by a representative of the Roma national minority. The fact that you're voting for the government, and you're representing yourself as an opposition, it can't even go to kindergarten. When we supported the government, we weren't in opposition, we were in support of the minority government, we never hid it. We are not like some of them to vote secretly for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and here they are represented as opposition. But, gentlemen, look then with the people who are in power, look, let them stand up to you, don't ask the SRS and other parties to give you their seats, and you vote for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The one who votes for the government and the right parliamentary majority is power, he is not an opposition. I understand when it comes to matters of state and national interest, but the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you can't be the government and the opposition at the same time. I have not offended anyone here, nor have I offended you, although you have insulted me more than once from this pay phone. I don't know if there's a link with you, that when I attack another party, they try to get back at me through you. It would be good to clear all this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1393	Mr. Rajko Djuric, then Shin. Please stick to that line. I believed we'd have the president in two hours. I ask Mr. Albianic not to disturb us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1394	Mr. Dacic, unlike you, I'm a very disciplined man and I sit here all the time. I understand your obligations, but I hope you can assume or at least admit that each of us, so I, of course, have certain obligations. I've replicated to you, not because you may possibly assume that I have something against you, not by God. I can't hate anyone, Mr. Dacic, because I'm a poet, and if I hated it, I couldn't write songs, believe me. As for Mr. Obradovic, I am very grateful that he called me so. I never wrote about Serbia and Serbs, Mr. Obradovic, I wrote, and I am very proud, of Milosevic's most critical and strictest texts, and behind that I stand still today. The strictest texts about Milosevic wrote even Seselj, read his book. That's Mr. Tom Nikolic's words. And if you want to know, the most remarkable books on the Milosevic regime and Milosevic himself have been written by Mr. Slavoljub Đukić, three books, and now comes the fourth, political cemetery, where your hair will probably be lifted on your head from the facts that this most honorable, most respected journalist and longtime commentator of the list "Politika", Slavoljub Slava Đukić. To tell you the truth, dear friends, in the spirit of that saying, "Here you are, here we are, Roma." Please, finally, peace to this troubled country, this nation, which has been suffering and bleeding for 20 years from the age of 87. I came back, I said, the day before, from Warsaw, where I used to report for "Politics" at the time of Jaruzelski, I wrote the text "Pray for Freedom," it was terrible. Now I have come to our country, to our city, to see about this misery and that misery that I saw at the time of Jarusel in Warsaw. I've visited many other ugly people, it would be good if some of our MPs, I suggest that we even form a fund, finance their way, go public and tell us how much progress our close countries have made, which were once not even our knees. Should we continue to fall and fall behind, and ask you who's in the interest. Let's keep in mind our own children if we don't have anyone else in front of us anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1395	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1396	Of course, I propose that we dedicate a special session to the rights and position of the Roma national minority in Serbia, because it is not the subject of today's session. We can talk about that too. I would just like to give all MPs one piece of information, that Slobodan Milosevic died in March last year, that he has not been in power since 2000 in Serbia, that he was killed in The Hague tribunal, that he has not been in power for seven years, and I really don't know who you're talking to in Serbia anymore. Do you want Serbia to live with its head back or do you want to move on? Do I need each of you to look for what you wrote? So what might be your literary or political biography, Mr. Djuric, compared to the Serbian people, and what did you write about it? Not only are you not defending the Roma people now, but you also attacked the Serb people back then, more than 10 years ago. But it's not the subject of today's session. Today I only warned you, both you and the chairman, that regardless of being a member of the minority you should not have any greater rights or less rights than any other MP. Answer the word, you have the right to speak, otherwise this is how we turn into a debate about the election of the President of the Roma Parliament. Here is the topic of choosing the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, don't compete between you anymore, and in the end both parties vote for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and most of your people don't vote for your parties or national minorities at all, as we call them. I will talk about national minorities when the election of vice-presidents and the selection of committees is on the agenda, because national minorities, in order to ask others to respect them, must show what they are like where they exercise power, in which areas, towards Serbs. So, don't ask us to be with you, and we will be, and thank the gentleman, as it is called, I haven't remembered yet, Pastor, right, thank you for informing these people, that you've been working on, how many languages, and even in German, so much favorite in this region of Vojvodina, there are 38 years. Who might have formed it then? What, if the DOS hadn't formed then at that time? So it's a very problematic area. We can discuss this more times, I don't want any evil blood with you, Mr. Guric. I also respect that your voters made a mistake, so they voted for you, I respect that you cheated on them, because today in Serbia your voters are asking for better living, asking for school, work, television. Did you protest what was being turned off by television and worked in your mother tongue? No, it's important for you to attack the SPS. That's what the voters gave you. Why aren't you protesting here, did you ever say about this pay phone? Well, if I were a representative of the Roma, I'd talk about it every day. No, you haven't had that time since the attack on Milosevic and on me. Milosevic died, but I haven't yet. So, in any case, turn to the future. Unfortunately for you, you'll have a long, long time to deal with us, but not because we want something bad for you. I hope to you personally that you will no longer enter parliament, that you will enter together with your political mentors, or on their list. Be on their list, commend you and the Serbian government... (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. ) Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, and I'm sure that's what your warning says in time that time is just coming. Is that right, Mr. Grouchy?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1397	Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1398	I agree that we should no longer talk about the Roma here, but let them stop talking about the big political parties, because they obviously feel that there are some problems. Let's all stop talking about it, but don't call first, Mr. Dacic, so I can stop talking about the Roma as a minority, so you can talk about it. The other thing, I don't know any opposition that created the possibility of the government voting. You honor me here for voting for the government, and you don't honor yourself because you created the possibility of a government vote at all. Therefore, we agreed that it was a national interest for this Serbia to win the government and in this context we should assess everyone's procedure. When you voted for the government, you had some people on board. The Roma Party has no one on board. The Roma Party is not in any of the councils of this government. I also said when the prime minister said that we were ready to help, but we are not and we are not acting as someone who defends the interests of the majority, we are acting constructively, as someone who wants to help all Serbian citizens. We are not here to defend only Roma interests and not only the Roma interests of 100,000 jobs in Serbia. These are the interests of Serbian citizens. I think we should all talk about minorities, but we should all talk about all Serbian citizens. Because if we settle, as we may have once, I don't know at what time, whether a hundred years or two years ago, twenty years ago when politicians shared, but it was never shared by the people of Serbia. Serbian citizens never shared it. Let's not share it, too. I'm ready to stop talking about the Roma, but don't let the others talk. Let's all get this over with. Or we should keep quiet when someone puts a dot and says, well, you see, you let it go, because it happened twice to say things, and I didn't go out. Let's not turn this assembly payphone into a battle for Roma voices. Let's get this over with, let's vote on the President of the Assembly and finish this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1399	Thank you, Mr. Shane. Mr. Zarko Obradović, and let Mr. Laslo Varga be prepared for the fifth time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1400	You know how, respected colleagues from the current and former authorities, if Mr Milutin Mrkonjic had remained in charge of the Serbia Reconstruction Directorate, there would have been 10,000 apartments and 100,000 employees. But you've replaced him and now you're moaning about apartments and employees. Apparently, Mr. Djuric misread me. I did not ask him to come out here and quote Slavoljub Djukic, but rather to make his views known to this assembly about Serbia and Serbs who wrote in the 1990s, that would be much fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1401	Here you go, Mr. Varga. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, 24 MPs, of whom the first Mr. Varga, submitted a request for discussion. Let Mr. Zarko Obradovic prepare himself, and then Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1402	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has spent the last hour discussing various topics that are not on the agenda of today's session. If anyone thinks that a debate should be opened, for example, about a new programme of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, let them make a proposal to the National Assembly, we are prepared to discuss it. Today it's not on the agenda. The same applies to the analysis of the election campaign to elect the mayor of Subotica. If anyone thinks it's important, I think we can discuss it. And the relations between the Democratic Party and the SVM are one issue that can be discussed, if anyone considers it important. As for the amendment and addition of the Radio Diffusion Act, we hope that this legislative proposal will be on the Parliament's agenda, then we will have the opportunity to face our views, our arguments, and see who's right about that. Now I'd like to talk about what's on the agenda. For SVM, for the only party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has its headquarters in Subotica, which managed to enter parliament through its own participation in these elections, the good news is that Mr Oliver Dulic, Subotican, has been proposed to the president of the National Assembly. I also have to realize that it turned out to be true, and we were right when we talked about it, that the previous Democratic Party candidate was actually not a serious candidate, and in this way he was sacrificed in one political game, in one big political farce, in my opinion. As SVM MPs and as an MP from Subotica, we have high expectations from Mr Dulic. First of all, we believe that his primary task should be to succeed in the future in changing the used dictionary and this atmosphere in the National Assembly. On the other hand, Subotica has indeed been unjustly neglected in the past. For example, from the National Investment Plan and during the term of office of the previous government, Subotici was allocated three and a half times less funds than would belong to it based on the number of inhabitants. For us, SVM MPs from Subotica, it is simply unacceptable. We therefore expect Mr Dulic to influence the ruling majority with his authority in the coming period to work together to achieve the goal of all Subotics, which is that Subotica becomes a city and as such an economic, educational, cultural center of the northern Vojvodina. Changes in the borders of the Subotica-based administrative district, which Mr. Pastor spoke of, the establishment of an independent school district in Subotica, the project of building a new National Theatre, the establishment of a university in Subotica, the construction of bypasses around Subotica, the construction of a closed pool, as well as the development of the Palic settlement in the true tourist center are just some of the expectations, for which we expect his support. We consider it no less important to break practice, according to which municipalities primarily develop centres, in countless cases, suburban settlements or villages in which national minorities live in significant numbers develop at the expense of national communities. Finally, we are asking for support from the future president of the National Assembly for the resolution of a problem that has lately become increasingly hampered by national minorities and which, in our opinion, is a flagrant violation of minority rights. It's about the next one. At the request of the public service RTS cable and distribution system in Subotica, as well as in many other places, it has recently ruled out programmes of Hungarian and Croatian television, in terms where their programmes contain the most popular shows, such as the award award "Oskar" or "Eurosong". It's with an explanation that this is how the business interests of RTS are protected. And from this place I invite you to use your future authority to immediately end this violation of minority rights. Finally, SVM MPs will support Mr Dulic in the election for National Assembly president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1403	Thank you, Mr. Varga. Mr Gojko Radic answered the line. Let Dr. Zarko Obradovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1404	I'll wait for Mr. Varga to sit down, show that the SRS respects Parliament, so you can listen to me very well. When you honor us here as it's been spent an hour and it hasn't been discussed, you've talked about everything, and you haven't talked about the subject, the point that's on the agenda. You're talking about investment. What does the president of the Serbian Parliament have to do with investments? Let me tell you why no investments have come to Subotica - for your party, for your party and the Democratic Party, the party from which you choose the president. We have a purifier in Subotica and investments to build roads. Well, you guys had a fight over the tender. You couldn't make a deal about the loot. The Republic government intervened, stopped investments, because you formed poll committees in the local parliament. The DS has formed the Survey Committee on Water, as the director comes from your party, and you have formed a survey committee on road construction, where he is the director of the Democratic Party. Not to mention how this encrypted building on Palic's hotels and information centres, and in what way, even those investments came. So what, you don't see anything in Subotica, you just see that you call the Republic of Serbia that it doesn't give anything. So you do not allow it, and you prevent it. You yourself have prevented a complaint by the Republic Government that a tender for the construction of roads in Subotica has not been well done. You respect it now, this parliament has nothing to do with it, so don't teach us to talk about it, while you're out here talking about everything, except the agenda. You have to accept the truth, that you were the main brakes in Subotica regarding investment. All the investors who came to Saturday had to turn to your private faces to buy space, land, etc. to get to the crying. Because you've been picking up these posters in advance and turning into city building land, and when someone comes into the institutions of the system, local parliament or urbanism to turn around, looking for somewhere where they can build something, you point it to a private person. It's a picture of Subotica. That's your picture. There was no SPS there, although 10 years with you and the SPS were in power, you ruled together in Subotica. The only municipality in which the system has not been changed is Subotica. Your former president was brought from the Central Committee for the President of the Municipality of Subotica, Bozovic brought him. To whom do you honor what we should talk and how do you bypass Saturday's investment? You must be concerned as hosts in Subotica and me, and to find those who prevented the investment from coming to Saturday. There's an investment in Subotica, but what's going on with them. You mention the National Theatre; so you know that you gave 6m euros for a project that could no longer cost 120,000 euros per square. Let's add to those sound insulations, and what later costs through the project at the National Theatre for sounding and all of the things another 30,000 euros... (Chairman: time. )......................................................................................................... But where you spent another four and a half million euros. Whom you're talking to, please don't go out and tell us how the President of Parliament is elected today, and we're talking about other issues, and you come out and you talk about it, and you mention everything in Subotica that you've stalled and you didn't allow it to be built in Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1405	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta according to the Rules of Procedure. Have Dr. Zarko Obradovic prepare for the discussion. I'm trying to get you to move a little faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1406	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in paragraph 1 say that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. First of all, I want to tell you that when the SRS is the majority in this House, the absolute majority, and when we bring the Rules of Procedure to our assembly majority, surely we will have neither this nor any other restriction that exists in this very restrictive Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But we have this Rules of Procedure, you voted, you are now the majority of the assembly, and when you voted in favour of this Rules of Procedure, you voted in favour of this provision that the MP must speak of the issue on the agenda. So as long as there is this kind of rules of procedure, then the chairman or president of the National Assembly must adhere to the Rules of Procedure. This is not the basic reason why I advertised the Rules of Procedure. I'm far more concerned about Article 27. Article 27 speaks of the President of the National Assembly and says that the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, caring for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, doing other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. I intervened in this Rules of Procedure so that Mr. President, since I believe you will choose Mr. Dulic, I would draw attention not to listen to Mr. Vargo in what he told him to do as president of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, your colleague who said he would vote for you earlier, has publicly called for this speaker to violate both the Rules of Procedure and the laws and constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why, before you're elected, I wanted to draw your attention that if you think you're doing this, you don't accept that function, and if you agree to break the Constitution to the Rules of Procedure, then say it nicely. If you don't think you're doing this, then I shouldn't have come out to say this, but you should have called yourself and told your colleague, Varga, that you have no intention of violating the Rules of Procedure, the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're nice to us at the exposé this morning, which is neither common nor according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is where you gave some of your speech, which, of course, I'll talk about when I'm a debater. Then, as a debater, you swore something completely different than what we just heard. However, neither I nor we of the SRS are surprised that you speak one thing publicly, and do another, as all ministers these days swear to honesty. I will remind you of the moment when Vojislav Kostunica entered the hall with the then future, and now ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. One of the MPs threw - what are you going to do here, half the ministers turned around.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1407	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I ask that Zarko Obradovic take his word, let Miss Jerkov be prepared, and then Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will finally know that today we are choosing the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the president of the Subotica Assembly, as we have spent on this issue, it seems to me, several hours of today's debate. But it's part of the congregation's life, too. As for today's agenda item and the proposal for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS MPs will not vote in favour of the DS proposal, or the parliamentary majority, that Mr Oliver Dulic be elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are three reasons why we won't vote for Mr. Dulic. The first reason is that in the few days since Mr. Dulic is a member of this parliament, he has proved to be a minor to do the job of the National Assembly president, which is otherwise a very important body in Serbia's political system. I'm not saying this by accident. What Mr. Dulic said on the night between Monday and Tuesday, when we chose the previous president of the National Assembly and that he was waiting for today and putting this issue on the agenda of the National Assembly, this shows that this apology is not sincere, but that only the result of one pragmatism and the need to present itself today is different from what it is. I have no doubt that Mr. Dulic meant what he said on the night between Monday and Tuesday, but that's exactly what doesn't qualify him to do this job. Today, in that speech, which is apparently an inaugural speech as the future president of the Assembly, he mentioned two things that were a characteristic of the Assembly, that is inculture and intolerance. That would be nice, it could have been assumed that he honestly thought, however, there is one small problem, first of all he, and then we all, which he was just the night he was discussing Tomislav Nikolic, as a candidate for the president of the National Assembly, was just acting the way he was convicted, was also uncultural, and was not tolerated. He then insulted his fellow MPs, the people who would sit with him behind this pay phone, MPs from the SRS and the SPS. He said words that are not worthy of the future president of the National Assembly and MPs. It may be part of the image of his party, but it is inappropriate for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, it would be a sincere apology that Mr. Dulic did it the next day or a few days later, when we also had a session of the National Assembly, so let's say the man cooled down, it was the heat of a political struggle and he said, he didn't mean it. However, this apology has not been made public to this day and says it is not sincere. Another reason why we SPS MPs won't vote for Oliver Dulic is part of his biography. This should be said, given that one daily newspaper, and more daily newspapers were engaged in its biography, and some are very detailed in the text - who is Oliver Dulic, stated that Mr Dulic was a member of the organisation that co-founded the student movement "Otpor". Perhaps the co-founders of the student resistance movement are good DS, but for us they are unacceptable as candidates, because the people who were in the Resistance showed clearly for years before what was their essential goal. The fact is that "Resistance" is an organisation that was created and financed from abroad, which promoted other countries' views, which worked essentially against Serbia. It should not be forgotten that the members of the Resistance took instructions in Budapest and other European cities, that they were doing such a very dirty job essentially against the state. I don't think it's absolutely acceptable for us to have someone who can name it as part of their biography accepted as a candidate for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given the entire content of what the members of the Resistance have been doing. The third reason why we cannot vote for Mr Oliver Dulic is that Mr. Dulic is a member of a political option that has shown in recent years that the exercise of power understands, first of all, as a way to satisfy the interests of individuals, many of them have become severely rich in years when the party to which he belongs has exercised power. Of course, political insinuation is being persecuted and that other countries' demands are essentially determined. At a time when the Democrats alone or together with others exercised power, Serbia was objectively and deceived, humiliated, and robbed. She was fooled because of those promised $6.5 billion, and from the little money that went through the donations, it made the system look like you to me, and everyone to someone else, and to his private accounts, it all got too much and a couple of individuals made it very rich. Serbia was deceived because many of those promises made before October 5th, and that oath throughout Serbia and the "Sava Centre", of course there was nothing after that. It has been deceived, because essentially all rights are reduced by different categories of people, and by those who are employed, and by those who have lost their jobs, and by pensioners. There is practically no social category of citizens whose rights have not been significantly reduced. Serbia is essentially humiliated, because members of the political option, alone or together with others, have done one thing that will essentially be difficult for Serbia in years to come and be part of our bad years. They, for example, have kidnapped and extradited Slobodan Milosevic, a man who was directly elected by citizens, president of Serbia, to The Hague tribunal. Serbia has also been humiliated because they have shown that they understand practically how they work in this respected home and why parliament served the political option at the time or the assembly majority. You remember, at least those colleagues who have been in this parliament since 2001, and those others have had the opportunity to hear more about it through the media, were voted here from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum and other European cities. Everything was only allowed to achieve the desired goal. Serbia was also robbed essentially because 2,000 of the best companies were sold for two billion dollars. Some of these companies have been sold to party friends, personal friends or companies, etc. friendly countries. I'm just saying, the case works, "Sartid." It is not a problem that Sartid has been sold, but the problem is that it has been sold for ridiculously small money, which has been sold without public competition and especially as of today, it has been a few years since the sale, we have not received a reply where the $10m fee went missing and why the total debt of Sartida of nearly a billion and 700 million dollars has been broken to the back of Serbian citizens. The fact is that at the time large enterprises across Serbia were destroyed, which were bearers of the development of these municipalities and regions, and of course from Serbia. Not to mention numerous affairs from that time. There was a connection to organized crime. The tycoons then led the country on their behalf, affecting the decision-making process of course. Political opponents were persecuted, publicly accused, from both this pay phone and elsewhere. In one word, it was time – whether or not it happened again. To this day, we have not seen that MPs or members of that political option have learned any lesson or that they have changed their system of conduct. We'll see what happens in the future. But what they've been doing so far doesn't give us the guarantee that something important has improved. I think everything I've stated is quite enough that we SPS MPs won't vote for Mr. Dulic as a candidate for National Assembly President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1409	Thank you, Mr. Obradovic. Miss Alexandra Jerkov, let Mr. Riza Halimi be prepared, and then Mr. Bajram Omeragic. That's what I'm saying so you don't leave the O.R. if we get there by two o'clock, of course. At two o'clock, we'll take a break by three.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1410	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, first of all, I have to say that I will be well-intentioned and I will say that I truly believe that it is Ms Milena Milosevic's proposal, and then giving up on her as a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a different political moment, not because it is some kind of strategy of the Democratic Party, that at the moment when the candidate who is proposed is not going to pass the proposal of one candidate, when they see that the candidate is going to pass the other. If this was done on purpose, it seriously violates democratic principles and such behaviour by the Democratic Party would be inadmissible. I hope that's not the case. As you have already heard, the MPs of the Vojvodjani MPs and the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina Group will support Mr Dulic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because he is, of course, the cradle of Serbia's institutionalisation. However, as you have already had the opportunity to hear, we will only do so under certain conditions. The Social Democratic League's conditions are clear and we hope Mr. Dulic will meet them. They are the same as the conditions for supporting the candidate for Prime Minister. Namely, the first condition is to implement the lustration, and that, Mr. Dulic, we expect you to take responsibility for yourself and the obligation to fully implement it. Another condition is the completion of the process of European integration, which is the imperative of all institutions, you as speaker of the Assembly in particular. I must again say that I am somewhat surprised that as a symbol of European integration, as we heard in the opening statement, you voted against the formation of the European Integration Ministry, as well as many other amendments that were proposed, which were proposed for the purpose of Europeanisation of society, such as the establishment of the Ministry of Human and European Rights, the Ministry of Gender Equality and the like. But most importantly, where the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will most insist, because that is basically why we are here and why the people of Vojvodina have given us their trust, that is to change the constitutional position of Vojvodina and protect the interests of its citizens. I am convinced, Mr. Dulic, that as a citizen of Vojvodina and alone, you will be the one who will meet their interests and who will understand their needs, and indeed understand the needs of the people of Vojvodina, and I hope that you will show it in the best possible way, by bringing all 43 laws, which have arrived in the Assembly of Vojvodina in the Serbian Parliament, which have never been on the agenda, on the agenda and allowing this assembly to decide on proposals coming from the Assembly representing two million citizens of Vojvodina. And that you will do the same with a law that will soon arrive, which is the Law on the return of property of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1411	Mr. Riza Halimi has a word. I apologize, Ms. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1412	Ladies and gentlemen, given the date on which the mandates of the MPs were verified, the least I expected was for all MPs to learn this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He is not very complicated, he is restrictive, he generally forbids the MPs to do their job, but in the part that we can talk about, it would be really nice to follow these rules and regulations from this MP. Before I explain this part, I would like the candidate for the President of the Assembly to say this here, because he did not publicly say this this morning when he was putting out his own programme, again, by the Rules of Procedure and by the usual practice, did he promise anyone what he did not promise to the public of Serbia and the MPs, and it refers to the conditions put forward just now for someone to vote for him, whether the candidate for the National Assembly promised someone changes to the Constitution, the lustration, because I repeat it to the MPs here did not. I'm also interested, Mr. Dulic, whether you promised to put some of the laws on the agenda as speaker of Parliament, or how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would do so. So, I warn and remind myself that the President of Parliament cannot put on the agenda any law because it is agreed with any parliamentary group or with some MPs individually, but there is exactly how the proposals come on the agenda at the time of the regular sessions, how they come on the agenda at the time of the extraordinary session, and all other than what it represents, I don't know what kind of arrangements can't be found on Parliament's agenda. I really expect the MPs of some sort of transge-fange combination to be able to work outside this room, but this way publicly violates the Rules of Procedure, violates the Constitution, invites someone you'll vote for to be President of Parliament, violates the Rules of Procedure, violates the Constitution, and that's not the first time, but we've heard it several times today. It's really inadmissible, and that's one of the reasons why we're not going to vote for this proposal, but we're going to do it in part two. For now, I am warning the MPs who have not learned the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly again, read, it is not complicated and do not speak contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1413	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1414	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly remind you again that on our election campaign, since there is uncertainty afterwards, at the Presevo Valley Coalition pre-election campaign, we have expressed our hope that in this conference we will change the situation compared to the 1990s, when we also had our representatives, but to remind you or inform you better, then no amendment in ten years' work of this assembly has passed, there was no chance of passing. We were hoping that it would be better now, that we would have a better atmosphere and that, in addition to the presence in the work of the highest representative home of a state, we would have the chance to try something in one of our pro-European and democratic governments, if not all, at least part of our electoral programme. As things stand, how the position and the opposition is at the beginning, in some things in one continuity, and I don't see the difference. There were also these homogenizations at the Constitution. In that same follow-up, in the exposé of the current Prime Minister, we absolutely didn't have a single sentence in favour of the problem of national minorities, about a very sensitive problem. We can behave as much as you want in that ideological, long-known way, that in this country, the minority issue is solved by the highest international standards, but that practice we know how it went and we know what fate it has. In this situation, we voted in favour of DS candidate Ms. Milena Milosevic that night, most of the minority representatives. But in the meantime, with all this, and the Ministry Act, and the abolition of the minority ministry, which almost all countries have in the environment and behavior again, as if nothing was going on here, as if there were no problems, as if through all ministries we would solve problems, and I know from practice that it will be difficult to come to the ministers and that certain things are being solved, and in this respect at these moments I think, as a representative of Albanians from our area, with our programme and our demands, and with very serious demands that we have made to the government, and to this assembly and to all the highest authorities of this country, I still don't see any more serious mood to solve these problems. Unfortunately, despite all the qualities of the proposed candidate, at these moments I will be held back, because I still do not see many arguments that this government will work better, first in the interest of all citizens, and at these moments we are interested in the situation in the Presevo Valley and very sensitive problems that are currently very much present. That's our attitude, and I felt it was necessary to give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1415	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. We'll continue the session at exactly 15.00 hours. The first speaker will be Bajram Omeragic, and the second Mr. Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic. [[After break – 15,05]] Gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. Mr. Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1417	Because of everything we agreed on at the meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs, I really wouldn't take much time. On behalf of the Sandzak List Coalition, I would like to say that we will support the candidate for the president of the National Assembly, Oliver Dulic, for several reasons. I mention only one thing, he is in his political work so far, and as far as we know in political life, he has really shown that he has an extremely built sense of good international relations, and it is extremely important, that from the middle from which he comes from and from the political group from which he comes, we get a president who will lead the National Assembly in an institutionalised way, to speed up the process of European integration and the Sandzak List Coalition will always have good associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1418	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I was just about ready to commend Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that he was efficient, which was very desirable, and then he gave in a bit, and then we started a debate that didn't concern this part of the agenda. Therefore, I would ask you not to break the Rules of Procedure together. We all know that in Article 103. The Rules of Procedure say the MP is obliged to stick to the subject. There are opportunities for all these videos and our agitations, but today we have one topic, and this topic is the selection of the National Assembly president and we need to concentrate on it. That's why I'm going to say a few words about the president's candidate, not to exaggerate in praise, which is usually the case. But I'm going to say something that's important, which is silent, about what he said about how he thinks he's working in this congregation. There's one program, and it's quite common, normally everywhere in the world, that man, before they choose him, says, "I think I'm doing it like that." This is not what we have held back in the debates so far. Let me first say a few words about Oliver Dulic. We have a man who, first of all, has not found in politics the only salvation for his life, and I always appreciate it, when a man has a profession, and politics is there, so he may later be a professional. He's a doctor and that's one profession he's already talking about a man, that's a man who's willing to help a man. I appreciate that profession and that's what recommends it somewhere in my focus. On the other hand, it is, although a young man, an old member of the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party has confidence in him and wants to find a significant politician for Serbia in any case. Oliver Dulic is a man who has been abroad on specializations, speaks languages, is communicative and has one natural gift of communication and education, which is not always easy to meet in our midst. So, I don't see Dulic as some Saturday local leader and let's cut it out. Oliver Dulic was born in Belgrade, Oliver Dulic graduated from the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, Oliver Dulic works in Belgrade for specialisation, conducted political work in Belgrade. So, all these local classifications here, I think they're groundless. However, more than that, I was asked to go out and say something, not to praise Oliver Dulic, I deeply appreciate him, and it is unnecessary to spend too many words, and I was moved by what he said, as he pictured the Assembly. The problem is, and I can tell you as someone who still has experience in this federal congregation the most, that we have spent a terrible lot of congregation time, for which we have been paid, in the propaganda of our parties. It can be considered normal. There were pre-election campaigns and the only problem is that the language of pre-election campaigns, which allows for so-called elections, is the language of pre-election campaigns. dirty campaigns, passed on here very often. I've spent most of my 17 years as a member of the opposition. I must say, I was not spared by those who made up most of the MPs at the time. I did not fight back, and I tried to cultivate such an attitude with my friends. We're here on a business together, so let me spend a little time saying I see this job and why I support Dulic in this place. That's as follows: we've found ourselves being thrown out of a rifle into some multiparty system. Right away, it did not come as a result of major opposition and democratic struggles. I can say that because I took part in it, and I don't think we broke the socialist order, but that was one world story we came into. The topic is in the next one, it's not enough to have a multiparty system, freedom of the press, to have democracy. It's just basic assumptions. It is very important that we have institutions that are democratic and that function as they are deployed, independent and dignified. One of these and the first of these institutions is parliament. We cannot move forward and I will say that we have not made progress because we have not reformed this first institution in a proper and democratic way. Of course democracy is the number, who has the majority, all right, will vote, but it is democracy and procedure. It's already one thing that's harder to accept. Our problem is next, can we make this Parliament an independent institution in relation to the government? I'll agree with Mr Nikolic on that and, of course, I'll agree with Mr Dulic, who underlined it, and I don't see that there are any contradictions. We want to make this institution so dignified that it doesn't become a flow water heater of the government. For a time, I led one or two parliaments as the state changed, and I know that the most terrible thing to do is to be President of Parliament when the government comes to you with a bunch of laws of urgency, so that it puts amendments on them during the session. I had major disputes and conflicts over it, I said and all my colleagues in the Democratic Party know that I will be in parliament until there is a chance that we will fight for his dignity and independence from the government. But it's all up to us. As far as we can tell, to agree on this matter, it's important, to see what we can do and to tell the government -- what you're up to is not the best thing, our committees need to do, we need to discuss it seriously. What has been the result of what we have had in parliaments so far, it does not contribute to this Parliament's reform. Maybe the parties get some points there, participates in the election campaign, but I don't think that's the right thing to do for the assembly. Now the key question here is whether we can gather around defending Parliament's dignity, as should be an independent judiciary, because if we haven't done that, all the rest of the story comes down to one terrible struggle for power, votes, and that doesn't contribute to the citizens. Our parliament, as it comes from the people, should always bear in mind what Serbia is today, what is the situation in Serbia, whether we want to admit it honestly or not. I don't see any more patriotic attitudes than attitudes to look bravely and face what Serbia is today. If we don't, we're going to have everything we've seen once, and that means seeing that Serbia with a large number of unemployed people, with large poor layers, with a large number of illiterate people, is in many ways, regardless of all our visions of history, fame and so on, is one country lagging behind many European countries. I don't see a greater patriotic task for all of us than to make it not lag behind, and that means that we have a lot of things to change first and foremost to change the parliament that will deal with it. I would like to appeal that we should direct this debate in this regard to the good of the citizens. Do not let the citizens just ask what they are doing there in parliament, except that they are slandering each other, spit and so on, which are our concerns for this parliament, as we refer to these proposals that come here. Therefore, I welcome what Dulic said about parliament, those principles he has laid out here. I will argue that parliament is worthy, serious and that we adhere to the Rules of Procedure, that the replica is only when a person is offended or poorly interpreted, that it takes three minutes, that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is an injury only when it is established, and that it is then voted whether the Rules of Procedure is injured or not, and that it is not an excuse for endless obstruction of work in parliament. It's a waste of time and people's money. It's all at the disposal of the chairman. He can use it to warn anyone when he starts to insult himself, to bring back the one who talks on the subject and to say, "Sorry, you've said so much, it's true for everyone equally, and then it's okay." Adhering to the Rules of Procedure is our main asset so that we can lead a good congregation, while the abuse of the Rules of Procedure is the worst thing that we can do to this congregation. I call on all those who may not have decided by now to vote for Oliver Dulic to do so, I believe we will not have the wrong choice in this regard. We had one candidate, so there would be no speculation, that candidate did not win the competition with Mr Nikolic. We went out with another candidate and there's no manipulation, no objection that our previous candidate was serious. Anyone proposed by the DS is her serious candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1420	Thank you, Professor. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta, let Mr. Nemanja Sarovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1421	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it has become clear to me at this moment why Mr. Micunovic was the only speaker in the history of a multi-parliamentary system in Serbia, to whom his assembly majority voted to violate the Rules of Procedure. Today, he showed that he still did not learn the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Micunovic, today in the afternoon I spoke to some young MPs, I mean young people in the Assembly, I understand that they have not yet learned the Rules of Procedure, but I am surprised that you do not know about the members of 100 and 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you have certainly spoken for the public just before, and for the sake of the public, I would like to draw attention to the fact that MPs, just coming out of the replicas, are warning of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, speaking of the points of the agenda, investing amendments, that is how the MPs do the work for which the people and citizens sent them to these assembly benches. Demagogy is that you are trying here, Mr. Micunovic, to be nice, to say that we should talk about the subject, as if we forgot what happened a few nights ago, when your colleagues from DS and DSS went after this, or that pay phone in that assembly, which you and your friends burned, and this one, when they were racing in who's going to tell more truths about whether the DSS or the DSS about the Democrats, when they competed in who's the bigger thief and the criminal. Of course, they were telling each other the truth. Also, Mr. Micunovic, you don't think you can hear what you're saying from the bench. When Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic spoke, I don't remember what point the agenda was, about the values he spoke about, and when he drew your attention not to talk in the bench, because you distracted him as he spoke from this place, then you, Mr. Micunović, said that you as a MP could do whatever you wanted, that you could whistle, that you could stand up, that you were yelling. So, Mr. Micunovic, then say it from this place. The truth is that a MP can behave in any way he thinks he should behave. (President: Stick to the subject, Mrs. Radeta, please. ) Mr. Chairman, I am talking about the Rules of Procedure, breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 100 and 101. You should have known on what basis I answered, and when I explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I can do it however I want, to convince this assembly majority that in the voting day, whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt. One more thing, Mr. Micunovic. You're talking about how you spent most of your life in opposition. You were only the opposition from 1990 to 2000, all before and after you were the government. And in the Merdars you were power, and after 2000 you were power, Mr. Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1422	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1423	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a non-democratic, self-called Democratic Party, the father of the Democrats, as some call it, but wrongly, does not know the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Micunovic, this is now a brief moment for you from democracy. You shouldn't have been unprepared to answer because, in addition to what Mrs. Radet said, you told the lie today, and it's obvious that besides not knowing the Rules of Procedure, you don't even know the Constitution. Did you participate in her writing? You're not. In decision-making? You're not. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and under Article 27, the President of the National Assembly only performs the tasks set out in the Constitution and the law, so the chairman of the National Assembly is represented by the National Assembly, let alone the candidate for president, has no exposé, no programme, no pledoia, as you have now praised the candidate for President, Mr Dulic. It's been a long time, a while behind you. I don't wonder if you've had a lot of exhibition in your life, and that's what the congregation has been discussing for a long and long time. Even in 1992, it happened that only you had been declared by the Assembly and the sins of your youth and at the end, at eight o'clock in the evening, after the debate had been concluded, a colleague appeared again... (President: Stick to the topic, Natasha. ) I stick to the subject because the topic is Mr. Micunović, who does not know the Rules of Procedure and does not know the Constitution. Now, in order for us to be able to enter into a debate on a presidential candidate, let Mrs. Kolundji help you, she is now the head of the DS parliamentary group, you will be able to handle this debate by the end of this debate, but it is truly inappropriate for you to be known as the father of democracy, as you are now to be seen by your young colleagues. Someone might have thought you were really the father of democracy and you knew something about it, and you don't really know, Mr. Micunovic, and that's your problem now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1424	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Mr. Markovic. Stick to the subject, please. Let me let you know that we'll be working after 1800 hours, until this point is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1425	Mr. Chairman, you're scaring them as long as we stay, the Serbian radicals also knew that when these topics were on the agenda, so don't tell us. We'll work while we're at it. Mr. Micunovic gave us a lecture here on democracy, about this same democracy I would like to say something. At a time when this assembly was scheduled to meet at around 10.00 this morning, members of the SRS and citizens of Zemun defended the poor in Zemun from that and such democracy. In the mornings, they've arranged the badgers to remove the kiosks, from which people feed their families. So, Mr. Micunovic, you said, Mr. Dulic spoke here, and I will read to you what this same Mr. Dulic was saying recently, downloaded from the site, says this way: "The attitudes do not match the real picture in Vojvodina, but the incidents do. And in Brussels, I will make it clear that if they want to help us, then they should support the democratic processes that happen and highlight good and positive effects, because otherwise they might have other topics, rather than European integration, sitting across the street. "These are Mr. Dulic's words. Is that Mr. Dulic scaring the Brussels SRS or the DSS, or is the DS scaring you? Regarding the support of MPs from the Hungarian parliamentary group, the question is: in the SCG Assembly, SVM leader Joseph Kasa was heard as the main cause of the distorted image and attempts to internationalise Hungarian issues in Vojvodina. Is that true? Dulic said in response: "At this moment there are very serious interventions, and they refer to judicial proceedings that are being conducted not only against Mr Kasa, but also against some of the other high-ranking party officials of the national communities. However, these people are not charged with crimes that have to do with their national belongings, but, above all, with the area of economic crime... "Then the journalist asks him: "Did it ever happen in such an institution, such as the European Parliament, to discuss incidents in one country if, according to Minister Ljajic, there were eight incidents at the expense of Hungary in 2004?" Mr. Dulic says, 'Never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, But Hungarian MPs don't dare raise the issue of Hungarian rights in Slovakia, Romania, because they are countries with much greater credibility. And we're a bad country. 'Of course, you praised Mr. Dulic. I'm sure you'll also vote over the SRS parliamentary group and choose it. Praise and his professional qualities. And on your praises from the other day, about the professional qualities of the people you chose, just a few words. (President: Time.) Our time is coming, don't worry. Namely, I came up with a book written by Minister Ana Pesikan, the Minister of Science wrote a book entitled "How to Be and Be Stupid". Alal her title.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1426	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Let Mrs Gordana Komic prepare herself. To cheer up the atmosphere a little bit, our colleague, MP Nedimovic, got his daughter five minutes ago. Let's congratulate him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was really wonderful to listen to some of my predecessors and listen to these alleged lessons about democracy and democratic principles. What is clear and what we have to remember today is that they did not respect any of these democratic principles that they are taking so seriously today. I always find it interesting to listen, and I do so with special attention, discussions of members of national minorities. I found it very interesting to discuss Mr. Reese Halimi. I can see that he knows very well the democratic principles and that he is very hot for them here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I can't figure out why you, Mr. Rizi Halimi, don't have a bit of an impact on these democratic principles being respected even where you exercise absolute authority, such as in Bujanovac. You have criticised here that no amendment has been voted here in the previous session. I ask you a question: how much is down at the local Assembly of Amendments, submitted by the SRS committees, accepted. You here, in accordance with democratic procedures, have had the opportunity to be a member of the congregation's working bodies, which is extremely good, but here, if you haven't had until now, I will give you one seat in one of the three committees where I'm a member. I'm sure on any committee that you'd like to be a member, an SRS parliamentary group will give you one seat. But I'm asking you, how many seats have you taken in the working bodies of the SRS board? I remind you that we have won as much as 75% of the votes in the environment where the majority of the Serb population lives. Of course, none of our only members are in any working body, and it best speaks of how you understand democracy in those places where you have the opportunity to execute it. Yesterday, citizens should know this, a session of the Bujanovac Municipality Assembly was postponed because several hours before the session you tried to share material, and what is on the agenda is that the few directors, i.e. the last two directors of public enterprises, who are Serbs, are not members of the SRS, but other democratic parties, are on shifts. Which are criteria, because you have not offered a single criterion or proof that they are not doing their job adequately. I repeat, they are not members of the SRS, but of some so-called SRS. democratic parties. It would also be good to explain how democracy applies. As for Mr. Dulic's election as president of the National Assembly, I also said the previous time that I felt it was not a correct political game, I would say, with Ms. Mile Milosevic's proposal. You, explaining the proposal for her choice, spoke as well of her as you spoke of Mr. Dulic. She even had a longer democracy. She had, as you've told us, and a much greater experience regarding the leadership of the local parliaments, so it seems to me, two mandates is an MP in the republican parliament, and what would be fundamental, is that you explained where in just a few days that change is because I think that in that way, above all, you humiliated both the MPs and the National Assembly and these two people as candidates. Mr Dulic, when he was taking his word, had to explain better what he meant in those statements he made, I think it was certainly the most controversial one where he said that he would never put the issue of Kosovo and Metohija above the issue of European integration, which is probably the most important issue. I don't think he has that kind of freedom that he might be intimately loved and loved most, that's one thing, but these are some things that are determined by the Constitution, which are determined by law and any opinion, any of the 250 MPs, simply can't play any role there. The fact that someone will be elected president of the National Assembly must be binding on him, regardless of the possible consequences of his parliamentary group, to strictly adhere to the constitutional and legal norms and obligations laid down by his Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, by taking the words and exposing that sort of programme past the Rules of Procedure he, I think, has shown in advance that he will continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, with the same ease with which he did so this morning. We also heard that he was training for this job that he was going to do, unfortunately we didn't hear where he was training, who trained him. We see that he is a member of certain NGOs and we would do well to know already in advance what these relations are, whether he has entrusted them, whether they have entrusted him and what the relationship of the National Assembly in the future will be with NGOs, given the fact that some of them are working openly against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, against the interests of all citizens, they even advocate, such as Natasa Kandic, open to recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. That work plan, I'm really saying it's very strange, so far we haven't had a similar proposal, or similar opportunity to hear something like that in the assembly, and it would be good to see how he intends to change the government's attitude towards the MP. I believe, I am convinced that this will not be possible and that, even in the next period, as has been the case so far, the Government will absolutely, at every possible opportunity, step on Parliament, that once again when it corresponds to the Government, we will be working on an urgent procedure, that they will be united by five, seven, as many points of the agenda as it takes. We had an example that as many as 32 points were united, but of course it remains to be seen. What is a very important issue and what Mr Dulic should plead, is how he will behave if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, a proposal for a debate on the confidence of the government of the Republic of Serbia arrives on the agenda. Will he, in accordance with those principles of non-democracy that his predecessors have implemented, refuse to put on, will he agree to those unfavorable explanations that whoever did not choose the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot even discuss her trust or, in accordance with the democratic principles that apply throughout the civilized world, will finally put such a thing on the agenda and will we finally have the opportunity, when the time comes, that is, when such a proposal exists, to finally and to discuss it. The diagnosis of parliamentaryism, I use Mr. Dulic's expression, and the finding that it is the state's body now with the smallest rating, cannot accept for the reason that this diagnosis is the reason for such a bad rating TV transmission. Is this an announcement to shut down TV transmissions, because I'm going to remind you that once TV broadcasts were a condition of democracy and that the parliamentary life without them could not have been imagined. Unfortunately, since 2000, the Quasimocrats have continued to try to eliminate these transfers, find different excuses, and it would be good to know what attitude, possibly if elected, Mr Dulic will also be on the subject. What was very offensive to all MPs, and in this assembly, and in previous synergy, it was the conclusion of Mr. Dulic that there was not enough level of culture here, or that the discussions were not at sufficient cultural level, and that is indeed an absolute insult to the MPs of the previous assembly and to those in this conference. We also heard that the level of expertise of members of professional services is not enough, it turns out that nothing is right here, MPs are not good, professional services are not good, I guess only individuals will work here. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the shortening of time were announced, of course, I suppose, for discussion, further restrictions. I'll remind you that from 2000 to today, the Rules of Procedure have been changed several times. Each time there was a further limitation of the rules of procedure, a reduction of discussions, and a growing penalty. Of course, you can be sure that you will never be able to interfere with the MPs of the SRS to do their job. One more thing's important, you've announced the staff's strengthening of the Assembly. Does this mean that we will now have the flood of hiring DS personnel, as was the case after 2000, and when we link it to the proposal of the deputy secretary, Mr Milos Todorovic, then it is clear that you slowly translate some people who were doing work for DS and NGOs, in CESID, in RIK, slowly into state authorities. I'm afraid that practice will continue in the future. In the end, you demand co-operation, you have called for tolerance, but you have to ask yourself whether you acted the way you suggest, you demand, however, that MPs behave in the future. Were you cooperating, were you tolerated? I'll remind you of one of your statements, that whoever sits at the table with the president will get dirty, that he'll have to retouch his biography tomorrow, and I don't know what else. How will you be able to sit at the table now and look at these people whom you have given such insults to the eyes? You have had a peaceable tone, as have your predecessors in previous years, but I am sure it will only last until the first opportunity, or until the moment when the need to re-injure both the Rules of Procedure and the democratic procedures you act here to implement something that was necessary for the parliamentary majority. One more second and I'm done. It would be good for the DSS parliamentary group to plead on this issue. None of their MPs signed up for the discussion. That's what would be very correct and politically correct, which they owe to their voters at the end of the line. We've already had a chance to hear their opinion about the election of the National Assembly president and it would be good to hear it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1428	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr. Rajko Baralic, then Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1429	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Micunovic has violated the provisions of Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and that's not the first time. It's just, I wouldn't underestimate what Mr. Micunovic is saying. Last time he said, "There's no head of state who doesn't control security," when that thing Boris Tadic controls security services. So what Mr. Micunovic is saying is obviously interesting here for the citizens of Serbia and for us because they are the real consequences. The delusion that Mr. Micunovic is a Democrats is indeed something nobody believes in Serbia. Please, Mr. Micunovic, do you belong to that party that has submitted 4,500 amendments in this House to do the obstruction of law-making? And you are now telling us that when we submit an amendment or point to a violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, we are doing a parliamentary obstruction. Most kindly, please, it's not the worst thing you've said about this pay phone. At the final convention of your party, when you were running for president of the Serbian state, you said: "And therefore I ask all people, and not only people, but women, to vote for me." You, Mr. Micunovic, didn't think women were human? So that's what you said. As to the specific situation, please, Mr. Dulic's early work here is well known. He's embarrassed so much, he can't get washed by any apology. What he did here a few days ago was never done by anyone in this House. No further interpretation of what the poet was about to say is sufficient. Mr. Dulic said something, last time I said it was political segregation, and it could have a more difficult name. It's hate language. But he will have Mr. Dulic here to learn from Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and others who are now in the presidency of this Parliament and thus to supplement his biography, not to be who he is today. It does not promise that Mr. Dulic, a candidate for the National Assembly, said what he said, apologizing this morning. It discourages all MPs. Mr. Micunovicu, we are not at risk of addressing the Democratic Party's electoral body here. It's not our job to fascinate you. I don't have any illusions about that. We're talking to another target group, not those who vote for you. Don't worry if that's how we compromise our political position. After all, you have the head of a parliamentary group that has good communist and socialist practices and will be able to transfer acquired knowledge at the places of the Executive Secretary for Culture and other positions, so that I believe in the future you will not sin again. It's no shame to admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1430	Please, Rajko, time. Thank you. He has the word Mr. Riza Halimi, so Mr. Batic, then Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1431	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it was last week, Mr. Sarovic or one of his other colleagues presented a series of inaccuracies, inaccuracies, even misinformation about the Bujanovac. What was in there? That in 2002, Albanians took over the government by manipulation, in the sense that the nuance was that there were more votes. I then provided accurate data that Albanians in Bujanovac have about 55%, Serbs have 32%, 10% Roma and others. It is strange in general that someone is asking the question of how Albanians took over power in 2002 in a proportional system. Since a number of other inaccuracies have been expressed, as if the river Pchinja was pouring into Morava, I did not take it seriously and did not seek the injury of the Rules of Procedure. This repetition doesn't make sense anymore. It's really inaccuracy. There's no problem working on committees at all, in the working bodies of the Assembly. One radical committee participates in Preshevo in all working bodies in the congregation, without any problems. In Bujanovac, it's the same situation. As for the authorities, I would like to list: finance and economy -- one; the defence -- two, and the general administration -- lead Serbian personnel, in the administration of Bujanovac. Then, a public sports institution, the current Serbian director. The Serbian director is also in kindergarten. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: It's true. That's not true. Absolutely not. Check, you don't get any valid data from the field. Please check. Still, respect this home, for the truth must be told. So, I'm continuing, the sports and recreation institution is leading the shot by whether DS or DSS, mostly Serbs. Then, the kindergarten also leads the Serb people and this is the situation currently in Bujanovac. Why so many false things in an avalanche, without need, to manipulate false data? The fact is that there are radicals in the minority, not in the majority, as in the course of a discussion it was also said here. (Zeljka Radeta, from the place: Someone is lying) How do you know that 55% of Albanians are in the Bujanovac Assembly, and of the 41 committees 22 are Albanian and make an absolute majority. That's a fact. Is that math sound reasonable to you or are you looking for higher mathematics, imaginary, complex mathematics? All right, your thing. Anyway, I'm moving on. As for working bodies here, a group of minorities by proportion should have between 11 and 12 working bodies participating, not in those five, as given by professional service. If it is respected, there will be no need for any other party, so just send Radical to lend me any place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1432	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Mr Batic, then Mr. Vučić, then Mr. Obradovic, then the replica Mr. Sarovic. I guess Mrs. Covic will finally get her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from several MPs from the parliamentary majority, we heard an appeal that opposition MPs were also voting for their candidate for Parliament's president. It sounds to me like some sort of lamentation for the times of the one-party state, it's fraternity and unity syndrome, and it's obviously resurrectioning in this House. And to mention social property, self-rule and unclassified, so let's get back to the past. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, as part of the LDP parliamentary group, by definition of the opposition and by definition of multilateral and parliamentary democracy, I will vote against Mr. Dulic's election as speaker, as I remind the opposition's task is to be a correction of power. You've formed a parliamentary majority. We all know how. You are responsible for the marathon sessions, for re-election of the president of parliament, and we will have a re-election of the secretary. You're responsible for that. It's all kind of happening in some late, late hours. You bulldoze the MPs, harass the citizens of Serbia. The government is elected at midnight. At some deaf hour of the night, the president of parliament is elected. That's probably what's going to happen in this re-election. So it's your responsibility. What is the style, by the way, within the parliamentary majority? We saw it this morning when we voted on the agenda. For the government's proposal, everyone voted against it. For a proposal by one parliamentary group within the parliamentary majority, the other two voted against. It's your unity. We have heard of Mr. Dulic that he is not burdened with the mortgages of the past and that is why he is proposed for the candidate. Does this mean that MPs, other MPs of the parliamentary group from which they come, are burdened with the mortgages of the past and what mortgages? It is said to advocate European integration. Well, I guess that's what everyone normal, who has a vision of European Serbia, is up for it?- I'm sorry. It has also been said to be sensitive, it is a very important qualification for the election of Parliament's president. Mr. Dulic himself said that he wants to restore dignity, that he wants to raise the rating or the level of parliament, because he is now at an extremely low level. Then you must work on it within your parliamentary group. We didn't mention tights, I don't know, nylon socks. We didn't show a book entitled "The Whore of del Ponte and the Whore of del Kostunica." This was done by MPs from your parliamentary group and thus undermined the level and dignity of parliament. Mr. Dulic also made a few illusions. One on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, at the expense of parliament and MPs, favouring the government. The second is an illusion of possible termination of television transmissions. It's a dangerous illusion. And as we will continue to behave against, I suppose, the newly elected president of parliament depends on his relationship to several topical topics, of which, let's say, the issue of lustration, the opening of secret files, the vote of mistrust to certain members of the government, the formation of polling committees for, say, Cypriot couples, involving one of the current ministers, up to his neck, and instead of being in prison, he is again a minister, until, say, a polling committee to clarify the tragedy and murder of guards on Topcider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1434	Mr. Wolfie has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had many times in this House's assembly to face incredible things, and as MPs of the largest parliamentary group, we have suffered the worst possible attacks. And we don't mind when it comes from individual media and people who aren't MPs, and we can't at the National Assembly tell us how it's possible that Nazi statements that one journalist B 92, visiting the show at Olje Bećkovic, so it bothers her that there's an Arab on the SRS proportional list, because he didn't know, because he would never vote for anyone of Arab origin or I don't know what, like he voted for the SRS. If one of the radicals had said that, he'd probably have been named Hitler's follower. For this unfortunate, who is the prototype of that thief. Criminalized houses, it's okay to say that, and about that meeting a little later, Mr. Todorovic, who's all on the list and how much money he took from you and don't worry. So we have complete documentation on how much money he's been taking from different companies during the war years, but that's what I'm going to discuss. I understand that there are people who are willing to clearly demonstrate their democratic structure to their Nazi public outbursts. I understand that for 250 euros and a bowl of cabbage with a knee, NIN journalist Radmila Stankovic comes out on that television and says, she doesn't know how, but she heard that radicals have got money to let the government form or I don't know what. They paid a lot of those 250 euros, those who gave, they could've paid 150, let them believe my word. I'm talking about paying for information, so I'm talking about a bowl of cabbage. As for all this nonsense and everything that's going on in parliament, where there's also a real hitleric approach trying to say that there are some that are iberales and some that are beneath them all. I must say that it was extremely inappropriate, Mr Dulic acted in this House and beyond, so his mentor, Sonja Licht, acted, praising Mr Dulic, on the same thieving and criminalised television, which robbed Serbia's state for millions of euros. And Serbian citizens, every citizen of Serbia has been robbed by television by anyone who knows how many euros, but at least 10m euros, according to our account. You stand up after how and in indirect ways they robbed Serbian citizens. So, I have to say that we can't allow anyone, Oliver Dulic, or anyone else to lecture us about who will, how and when to raise his head in Serbia. Unfortunately, you are Mr. Dulic and your party credited that criminals have raised their heads in Serbia and that honest people have put their heads down in Serbia. Not that it bothers you that most of Serbia has raised its head because Tomislav Nikolic has become the speaker of the assembly or because someone, as you said, will be involved if he sits next to Miss Jovanovic, Mrkonjic and Radojko Obradovic. Who's that, Mr. Dolic? Are you more beautiful? Smarter? Better at something than them? Is that some kind of higher racist theory? (President: Time.) ) Thank you, Mr. Mrkonjic, I just want to point out that you can apply these racist theories to Sonja Licht courses, you can't and you won't, to Serbian citizens either. You two make a deal. There's one more thing, I'm finishing up, Mr. Grouchy. I'm sorry no one else has ever pointed that out before, and I find it interesting that no one has noticed. In fact, on one show, a few days ago, and I was already talking about it, I'm surprised that Mr. Dulimuna didn't look back, when Mr. Nikolic was elected, Sonja Licht said on this thieving and criminalized television, which kidnapped millions of euros from Serbian citizens, B 92 was concerned, Sonja Licht said the following, imagine how far it came, that my friends, acquaintances, told the boss there at the Emergency Centre, that it should not and should not receive radicals as patients and that they should not be treated. Literally. Mr. Dulic, since you are her student, I ask you, is that what you offer Serbian citizens? Is that what you're saying about Serbia's future? I don't mind. I don't want to tell you what it is or what I think about Sonja Licht, I think she's very serious about what she's doing. I don't know how that went out. I expected a conviction on your part of that sort of thing. Let me tell you something, I can't wait to see who's going to tell anyone in my family - I'm not going to examine you. I'm waiting to see who's gonna tell me, I'm not taking your son or daughter...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1436	No one, Mr. Wolfie, please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1437	I can't wait to see them, but they're brave on TV when there's no one to answer them, and otherwise they're smaller than a masculine grain when they're supposed to do something like that. That is the way you should be in the National Assembly always, but also outside the National Assembly, not only when there is no one to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1438	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Sarović has a replica and I hope, finally, Mrs. Komic, that he will get the woman's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1439	Thank you, Mr. President. In order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know what this is about and why, at least some of us MPs, are interested in what is happening in Bujanovac, I think counterpart Sarovic mentioned this, and otherwise it is also about the provision of Article 225(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Several daily newspapers, Mr. Halimi, today released information that a number of council members left yesterday's session of the local parliament 'cause of disagreement with the two directors of Serbian nationality in public enterprises Sports Centre Youth and a tourist organisation in the city. The directors of these institutions are the only directors of Serbian nationality among seven directors of public enterprises in the Bujanovo municipality. The directors have so far been changed to five public enterprises: Komunalci, Children's kindergarten, the Bujanovac Construction Directorate, the Sports Hall, the Public Institute of the House of Culture and JP RTV Bujanovac, and are all Albanians. ''It'll be interesting to hear that you know the cause of one part of the discussion, so we'll be in a position to hear and confirm the accuracy of what you said or what the newspaper published. When it comes to mathematics, it should be said that mathematics in spring 2002 was a very interesting thing, because it was like preparing to hold the first local elections after so-called spring 2002. Democratic changes in Serbia, the local elections in these three municipalities, have been amended to create conditions for as many members of the Albanian minority as possible to report to participate in local elections. The law has been changed in a way that shortened the length of stay in these municipalities, that residence, which would create conditions for someone to vote. Otherwise, we Socialists were then talking about this subject and pointing out incredible cases, that there were such examples of registering voters that, for example, at one housing unit, one address of 20 square meters and that 30 or more persons with the place of residence were reported, and all of them, of course, later participated in the elections and suddenly created this majority of whom Mr. Halimi now speaks of as something absolutely correct and no one should question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1440	Mr. Riza Halimi according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1441	Mr. Riza Halimi has finally begun to respect democratic principles and I hope he will start applying it to Bujanovac. Namely, Mr. Halimi, regarding the 2000 elections, Mrs. Kolundji could testify. First, how many people are registered directly before the elections, means voters, in Albanian environments, as many are listed in the voter lists. The second thing is, how many of them are listed as living in KIM territory. In the 2006 elections, buses were brought to KIM territory by people who voted and returned immediately afterwards. The third thing, how many people are listed in the electoral lists against the law, without a single home number of citizens, just a name and a last name. You know that no one can be included in the voter's list on this basis, and that without a home number, based only on names and last names, you can't identify yourself. The next thing, it is undeniable that in the assembly material for the assembly session of the municipality, a shift was proposed by the Director of the Public Enterprise of the Tourist Organisation and the Public Enterprise Sport Centre. You talked about democratic principles and the percentage of your party's participation in the assembly committees. You say 55% of Albanians are listed in the polling list in Bujanovac. The Serbs are 30 percent, so you said, and that's not controversial. The SRS won 30% of the mandate, we have 12 mandates. I'm asking you, how many places in So Bujanovac's working bodies, according to these democratic principles that you so fiercely advocate, gave to the members of the SRS; none, and that's a fact. So, regardless, we sincerely continue to advocate democratic principles, and we believe that you should be able to participate as widely as possible in committees here in the republican parliament, but we also ask that at least the minimum of these democratic principles be respected where you are most. Secondly, you were talking about institutions that you do not control and the institutions you control, there was information that you received a promise from Mr Tadic and Mr Kostunica that in the coming period you would also get the post of President of the Municipal Court, and that you would get the post of Chief of Police. It would be good to make sure that it's true or not, and of course we'll see for the next few days and months what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1442	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Riza Halimi, but let's stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1443	It's about the election again. If any nostalgia is to return the time of the SPS regime to 2000, I am not only talking about the period of the one-party system, but about a multi-party system, in which we have managed from 1992 to 2002 from 41 seats in the local Assembly in Bujanovac to a maximum of 12, because by the majority system, the electoral units have been manipulated that Albanians with 2,000 votes were elected by one committee, and Serbs with 100 or 200. That's why minorities made up the majority in the Bujanovac Assembly, and there were no Albanians in the public life. It is not true that there was a need in 2002 for any manipulation to take place because, please, I am going in line before 2002, according to the current population census regulations, Albanians accounted for 61% in Bujanovac. This reduction to 55%, it is due to the reduction of all minorities in Serbia. You know why. Here, let me tell you. The reason is next. According to the new census, Mr. Vukicu, according to the standards of Europe, the principle of not counting as a resident is accepted by that resident who has been abroad for more than a year. According to the Bujanovac principle, about 10,000 people were not included, the Municipal Election Commission in Presevo counted 48,000 residents, in Bujanovac 54,000. But when the Bureau of Statistics gave its data, on the basis of this principle which was mentioned a little while, that people who live abroad, who work in Switzerland and Germany, they are our citizens, they are on electoral lists and Presevo and Bujanovac, wait for people, just to explain, by that principle, which seems to be based on all the standards of the European Community. The list law. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: What law?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1444	Mr. Riza Halimi, please finish and do not discuss with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1445	Please read, look. Based on this, 45,000 residents are currently in Bujanovac with 61% of Albanians and 54,000 people. But again, I stress that the majority and with that principle are mostly Albanians with 55% of the population. And then by what it took, Mr. Obradovic, you ran a local self-government, where there's logic, where there's a need for manipulation, if someone makes an absolute and convincing majority in one environment. And if the Albanians, in this case the Party for Democratic Action, and in the framework of discriminatory provisions participated in the elections, we participated in 2002 and there was no need for anyone to help manipulate...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1446	Good, Mr. Halimi, you've explained well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1447	It is absolutely incorrect that yesterday a director was appointed to kindergarten, it is incorrect that the Director of the Sports Centre was appointed to the Tourism Agency and it is incorrect that the director of the Sports Centre was appointed. It's a journalistic fiction. I ask you this question -- how many Albanian executives are in state authorities and how many Albanians are in state bodies? At the border crossing of Presevo, with 90% of Albanians, there are no employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1448	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know there are some, and Mr. Halimi is not one of those that you don't think I wanted to accidentally offend him, who in the afternoon are not capable of working in the Assembly. We know exactly who these MPs are always in every assembly. Mr. Halimi is very capable. Mr. Halimi, you have not answered the question how it is possible for 30% of those who received the votes of the Bujanovac citizens not to be represented on boards, working bodies of SO Bujanovac. You told us everything here, you ran away from it, you didn't answer that. Because, Mr. Halimi, there is no representative of the SRS on the boards and don't talk to us about democracy, but talk to these of yours, with whom you agree where you're going to put any directors, even though they can't get any Serbian votes. Mr. Halimi, in the final election for mayor Bujanovac, SRS candidate Stojmenovic Ceke received 46% of the vote in the second election round. You'd get in the first significantly more than 40% that some other parties, all of them, 12 of them, didn't think they could have a better candidate, so those 12 parties got 10 times less votes than the SRS candidates. But he got 46% of the vote, close to 47. To all of this you were not reasonable enough to respect the institutions and the will of the citizens of Bujanovac of Serbian nationality and to say -- here, we will give these people to participate in the committees relatively in the political will of the citizens of Bujanovac. You don't have an answer for that. You're talking about some past tenses here. What law are you talking about? The List Act? That doesn't say anything in the List Act. Bring the list bill, it doesn't say anything, you invented it on the spot, Mr. Halimi. It says so in EU regulations, but we will not accept such racist laws, we will democratic laws, Mr. Halimi. It says where you and the Atlantic are taking us, along with yours. But it has nothing to do with the SRS and the Serbs at all. The Serbian List Act does not say anything like that, and don't make it up. There was another manipulation in 2002, it happened that you were enrolled by those who had no residence at all, and no residence in the territory of the Bujanovic and Presevo municipalities and the Medvedja municipalities, who had nothing to do with Bujanovac and Presevo, I don't know why you were suffering it, nor do you have any majority in Medvedja, but there was something you liked to mention the third municipality, for my unknown reason. It doesn't even matter in the end line. That's what you, Mr. Halimi, are telling us - well, someone took our voters. Not true, Nebojsa Covic signed them as long as it took him, however long it took you until one o'clock, Mr Halimi, so that you would have most of them, by one o'clock in order for the government to leave the Serbian hands and move into your hands. By one o'clock in the morning, polls were not closed in Albanian places, recorded who arrived, since the Serbs half should not have come to those polling stations. Whoever dared was exposed to the worst possible pressure. That's how things look objectively. As far as we're concerned, Mr. Halimi, we respect all institutions, whatever you ask of the SRS. Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the assembly, told everyone -- whatever the minority representatives are looking for, they will get. You want the vice president of the assembly, you want the committees, whatever you want from us in the SRS, you'll get. And you, Mr. Halimi, for 47% of the people who were for Stojmenovic, who were for the SRS, you don't have one seat on the board, because you're looking at how and how to do everything against the SRS, and hopefully I would like to believe, even though I'm afraid I'm wrong, that you don't want to, you should be ashamed of it, it's time that you don't do it against Serbia, Mr. Halimi. I hope those flag stories and all that happened with the Serbian flags are a coincidence. I hope that doesn't happen to you in the future. Do not interfere with the mind, as much as you are protected by these DS partners and some other parties, who think the same as you, no matter whose it is and who it belongs to, do not forget, Bujanovac, Presevo, but also Pristina, to inform you, and Pec, and Prizren were the rest of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1450	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Halimi did not explain to me, nor to Mr. Vukic, any attitudes made to this speaker, where in 2002 30 people registered to an address with a surface area of 20 meters square. The fact is that the law and length of residence have been changed as a condition that it could be paid in local elections, the fact is, Mr. Halimi, it cannot be disproved. The fact is that many people in the 1990s left Presevo, Bujanovac, some of them in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, which is very interesting, because the second thesis was that in Kosovo and Metohija it was very difficult, dangerous to live because of events that were in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises whether they went for safety reasons or if they were looking for something else. The fact is that there was a significant change in ethnic structure in 2002. The truth works, it should be said, that the 2001 census in these municipalities could not be completed and that, of course, was used in the local elections in 2002 to significantly increase the participation of members of the Albanian minority community. One more thing to say, when you mention where, as well as similar, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be told what is rarely heard, and the fact is, for some time past, communist, a member of the Albanian minority community was a member of the country's collective head of state presidency. We had the first minority-language university in the world, so it was all small, because there are political interests and goals that are objectively against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1452	Thank you. Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please make this the last call.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1453	I wanted to explain why they came from Kosovo. These are refugees, these are people who left their homes during the war, their kindergartens, any term, whether they were exiled or targeted, but mostly when the army and police from Kosovo were moved to the Land Zone. The land zone has been cleaned up in Medvedja, and in Bujanovac, and in Presevo, but there are about 10,000 people who have not been returned from that time and are in Kosovo. These people are on election lists, you can check that out. The lady who runs those lists is Serbian nationality in Bujanovac. Check that these people have been on election lists since they were 18 years old, and the fact that they're gone now is the situation from 1999 to the armed clashes in 2001. Now I ask you, who wants to defend the right to vote on those? If you remember, the first elections for the Kosovo parliament include displaced and displaced persons across all centres in Serbia and won about 12 or 13 of those secured 10 seats in the Kosovo parliament. They participated in the elections in a place in the Kingdom, Belgrade, and here it is not, despite what we have both asked the OSCE and the government, allowed to vote where they are at the moment, so they are organised by buses to vote in 2002 and 2005. I repeat this again, it is true that in Presevo there is one committee of radicals involved in the work of all committees, and in Bujanovac so far there has been no written request from the SRS. Several discussions were on the subject, however, your board in Bujanovac has not yet submitted a written proposal to the Radical Party candidates for all committees, otherwise it has been provided two places for the Radical Party. That's true. (President: It's good, Mr. Halimi, you're ending it. I call on you again, as you advocate here to be Serbs in the local self-government proportionately, come on, gentlemen, be sure to have Albanians in state bodies, and your state authorities are cleaned out in Bujanovac, there are no Albanians... (President: Thank you, Mr. Halimi. )......................................................................................................... There's only one copy here and there, and there's no manager. Come on, take care of that too, radicals, if you think you're up for minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1454	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and most of all Mr. Rizzo Halimi, you know very well how this one committee of Serbian nationality participates in the Presevo Assembly, and this is Mr. Vlasimir Jovanovic, you know very well how many threats he has been exposed to because of the fact that he was wearing a badge with the character of Vojislav Seselj. So much for democracy in Presevo and it's not true that it participates in all committees. As for the situation in Bujanovac, you say that you had no idea what objections to the election process, but you will remember that even in these last local elections, the biggest problems were precisely in those environments in which Albanians live. Tell us, Mr. Halimi, and it's very well known, and I can tell you, who at the polling station in Conchulj was breaking boxes, that it wasn't someone from the SRS or someone from your party, Mr. Riza Halimi. You first claimed that there were involved members of the SRS on boards, which is not true, there are none, although we have 12 committee members. The other thing is, you've now told the truth that no written proposal has ever been submitted. A written proposal was submitted when the Municipality of Bujanovac Assembly was formed and was re-delivered before this session of the Assembly of the Municipality, but you again refuse to accept these democratic principles and allow the SRS committees to participate in the work of these Assembly committees. Of course, we invite you and now to finally give up this undemocratic manner of conduct. We are not angry with you, democracy is still developing there, but please show good will now, do not replace the directors of public enterprises and finally allow representatives of the SRS and other parties, who have their own representatives, so I am talking about non-Albanian representatives, to finally participate in the work of the board in the Bujanovac Municipality Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1456	Mrs. Gordana Comić, and let Mr. Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1457	Ladies and gentlemen, my contribution to the vote for Oliver Dulic will be divided into two short pieces. One context is in which this assembly takes place and another constitutional basis for what we are doing and for the election of candidate Oliver Dulic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The context is, most of you share this information with me that it is relatively unusual that even at the previous session of the Assembly, where we have elected the president, and on this one about the president of the Assembly, we are having a debate with this kind of passion, turns on the subject, with a political determination that we are at least all concerned with the election of the President of the Assembly together. I repeat, this is unusual for parliaments, but our parliament is also going through it at a session where we chose the previous president and this one. The second curiosity and context is related to the presidents of the parliaments of our National Assembly, at least since 2001. National MP Oliver Dulic will be Parliament's sixth president for six years, the previous five since 1990 and, unfortunately, I have had an idea as someone who has worked in the Assembly since 2001, that we have photos, names and last names of the National Assembly president since the National Assembly, and there has always been something more difficult to do. This is my suggestion to all of us, to think of it as proof of our self-esteem. All the presidents of the National Assembly of Serbia, since it was first established, in the appropriate space, with appropriate photographs, because I think we have something to show and that we should not look for books and difficulties to have with the internet to find the names of the president of the National Assembly. It was easy for me, I know personally all six, five, and this sixth, which will be elected today since 2001. The fifth president of the National Assembly threw, but I didn't hear what. They're trying to break my context exposure with classic methods of confusion, but, of course, it didn't work. It's not the first time, and it's not the last. So, the context, and I ask you to try to take this seriously, is unusual for parliaments, because the seat of the president of the assembly is completely different from any other place, any other position of power or power held in the state, as is this house completely different from any other place where we have positions of power and power. This is our joint house, whether we have power or opposition. I've had a lot of difficulties since 2001, trying to share that attitude with many of you. For the work of this house, for the profile and picture of this house, for everything that comes out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we share the responsibility of us who are the ruling majority or who are the opposition. And that's why it's indisputable in other parliaments when the president is elected, and here we are not, and we have a problem and we are turning election sessions for the National Assembly president, the previous one, into very unpleasant debates, which are far more relevant to everyone other than what is the credibility of candidates for the National Assembly president. In the second part, I will talk about the constitutional context, because this is very little heard, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the jurisdiction of our common, not because we here do not know it, but because of those for which we exist, and these are citizens and citizens of Serbia. Thus, the constitutional context and the position of the speaker of the assembly are regulated by Articles 98 to 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll quote two members, but I want to quote also members 15 and 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which does not directly concern the position of the National Assembly, nor the authority of the National Assembly president, but I think it concerns all of us, because it is my perspective, and this is my personal position, that we all have a huge problem with selective application of laws and regulations. The selective application of the Rules of Procedure is something that goes on our behavior. The selective application of the law can go to our behaviour as political parties, but it goes to the everyday lives of our citizens, not to give you examples. It's forbidden for a young woman to look for a job in an interview to ask if you're married and if you have children. This provision is massively infringing. It's forbidden when you're in the IRS selectively accessing those who are your users. It's forbidden when you're on a local level of government that your client is in your way than you're being held back from law enforcement. This assembly lasts unusually, we have a problem as a society and a state because of selective law enforcement. We, together with the future president of the Assembly, with Oliver Dulic, who I am pleased to vote for, must understand that the priority of this assembly is to fight selective law enforcement, to fight for the removal of selectivity in the application of the law, because it lowers the quality of life of each of us, whether we are in political parties or in everyday life of those who, once in four years, often or less, come out and vote for us, for whoever we vote for. We, as a assembly, are obliged to control the government, support or dispute the government, government bodies and work on the committees of the Assembly that worry about the application of the law not being selective and not being on the proverb -- who's closer to the fire to warm up and not being -- give me the phone, I'm close, you're close, we know ourselves, we're from the same party or we're friends with other relationships. It is the cancer of society and this congregation is responsible for reducing such a disease of society. I'll go back to quoting the members of the Constitution, which were actually mentioned here, but because they are selectively applied and because we interpret them, they represent a problem. Article 15. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads: "The state guarantees equality between women and men and develops a policy of equal opportunities". It is our Constitution for which we have voted and all the laws based on this article of the Constitution have a non-selective application. It is a long way from me as a citizen, over which selective application of the law has been carried out, to the Constitution and possibly individual constitutional appeals, if and when we pass the Constitutional Court law, if and when we elect constitutional judges. Until then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is time to live daily, to fight life daily, to fight the injustice of the selective application of the law daily. Article 21(3), I quote this article because we were actually talking about it because we interpret differently what it says in the Constitution. The Constitution states, Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "No discrimination, either directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on gender, nationality, social origin, birth, property, culture, language, age and physical disability." Item 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia 21 says -- it is not considered discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. We here argue with the interpretations of this member, argue with what it looks like and looks like to us as members of political parties. In Serbia, whether or not these members of the Constitution have been in place or not, by leaving this deep constitutional crisis, which has been in place for a year, close to Mr Oliver Dulic, as the future president of the Assembly, opening a debate among us MPs, supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia or being opposition. Members of 98th to 110th describe the position of the National Assembly in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of course the role of National Assembly President. I will quote two members, Article 100(2), who says - in the National Assembly, equality and representation of genders and representatives of national minorities are ensured in accordance with the law. There will be interpretation, because some of us will say that it is only election laws, and some of us will say - no, it is all sectoral laws, through all sectoral policies, because then we will have a shared sense of equality, no matter what social group they belong to, no matter what political party they vote for. Article 110, I conclude, returning to a brief address by Oliver Dulic, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says - a law is passed on to the National Assembly. I hope that during the chairmanship of Mr Oliver Dulic, we will understand the necessity of the law on the National Assembly. It is mentioned here that the DS in the previous meeting was against the consensus, and the reason why we were against it was that provisions in the pension, social and disability parts of the legislation were introduced in the Law on the National Assembly. National MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic say it is not true. It is very simple to determine, taking the proposal and the draft laws that were in the Assembly and which were withdrawn from the procedure. The part that MPs do not allow me to say is that in the meantime, we have reached agreement that instead of the part where pension rights are mentioned, we put provisions on the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a good deal for future negotiations that the president of the National Assembly will have to take care of by nature of things about the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the only congregation that has no budget. The committees of the National Assembly have no budget. I can't like committees and bodies where legislative activity should happen, because you don't know what kind of program you can do, because you don't know how much funding you can have. My last proposal to all of us is that this part of the debate, which comes down to the agenda point, essentially to free compositions, as much as it is to agree that it is the right of every MP, and I will first defend the right to speak for this speaker in the framework of the Rules of Procedure whatever the MP considers necessary, because this is a fundamental democratic right. So I will also ask all of us to co-operate with the future president of the Assembly on these two main topics of at least this year, to make an agreement on the Law on the National Assembly, to determine the position of the National Assembly and to fight together against selective law enforcement and the likelihood that this government, which we support, and some others we will not support or will, can, without control, any kind of thing, essentially damages citizens and citizens of Serbia in the name of the MPs. I hope that these MPs of the DS will end the address or we will decide whether we will continue to participate in our work, or our performances, and I ask you all to think twice. You can't find a candidate like this very often, and it'll be good for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1458	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ms. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure and Zarko Obradovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1459	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is kind of sad for me all day to listen to DS representatives talk about strengthening institutions, about the future role of Parliament President, and these same MPs have not convinced their president that, in accordance with Article 182. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, swear an oath before this Parliament on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Because, quite certainly, if he took an oath in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, based on Kosovo and the Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, it was quite clear that "Algemite teatungu" would not have given the interview he gave, so Mr Tadic, the DS president, among other things, said -- in the case of Kosovo, it is the ability to function in the Serbian state, without its stability cannot be a stable Balkans. So he says -- over Serbian announcements that a break in diplomatic relations with those countries that would recognise Kosovo's independence, Tadic said that any kind of self-insulation of Serbia is directed against Serbian citizens. Then further says Tadic -- it's a safe way to lose Kosovo. Self-called patriots, who are propagating such a policy, speculate with citizens' reactions, who are happy to listen to such sentences in these difficult times for Serbia, Tadic said. I suppose Boris Tadic, when he spoke of self-called patriots who promote such a policy, thought of his coalition partners DSS, as the DSS also advocated, advocated at least until the formation of the government, the the thesis that diplomatic relations with every country that recognises self-initiative Kosovo as a special part, i.e. Kosovo republic. Of course, Serbian radicals agree with it, that was what we talked about from the beginning, others accepted it, but obviously Boris Tadic has no such intention. One more thing I read today in the daily "Justice" really shocked me and asked only DS representatives, is it true that DS Mici Veruović, who was caught breaking the kiosk, provided a diplomatic passport? They say - Mić Burgia, so his nickname, he did not threaten in prison for nothing, it appeared very quickly, Veruovic did not spend more than two hours in custody, for an intervention from Tadic's office Burgija was released, so it is not clear whether a report against him for the robbery he committed will be filed at all, says the negotiator 'Justice'. I would like you who swear to democracy, institutions, the independence of the judicial authorities to confirm or disprove the writing of "Justice".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1460	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Obradovic. To inform MPs that Mr Milos Jevtic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Bosko Ristic, Vladimir Petkovic and Miss Jelena Markovic, all DS MPs, gave up their discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1461	I must say that Mrs. Comic is not familiar with the real reasons why the DS was not eligible for the National Assembly Law. The colleagues from the Democratic Party, members of the National Assembly of Serbia, who did the first text of the bill, had 12 or 15 amendments, cannot be remembered precisely, and the essence of the Democrats' refusal to accept the document is that, in their opinion, the bill, or draft law at that stage, is later not good enough for them, and has clearly resolved the issue of relations between the president of the state, Mr Tadic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Tadic as president of the Republic and the Government of Serbia. Since they are all part of the congregation's majority now, it would be logical to expect these problems to be resolved now and for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to get the law, as the Constitution prescribes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1462	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a huge scandal directed by DS Milos Aligrudic, DSS, something that has never been seen before. Namely, who is currently president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I don't think we have it yet. By yesterday, Tomislav Nikolic was, until these frauds checked the faith, those of the DSS. Well then, I show you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the official envelope of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I show the citizens of Serbia, to see what kind of fraud we are dealing with in the National Assembly. On the occasion of the meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Oliver Dulic, has the honour of inviting you to attend the ceremony on Thursday, 24 May 2007, at 20.00 hours. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I pray that this scandal, this unprecedented scandal... Because as far as I know, there are no people's ewes to whom Tadic, Kostunica and Dinkic will say, we have determined, and you have a debate there and what you should vote for, not only are you not sheep, but you are monkeys, and chimpanzees would understand that, but some of the lower types of monkeys, well, that's about the attitude of Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic towards the MPs, especially towards the citizens of Serbia. Respected citizens of Serbia, Serbian President Boris Tadic, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic tell you this is how you chose no one, that you, Serbian citizens, are nothing, that those who decide on your behalf and who is president of the assembly before the president of the assembly is elected. They were a few days earlier, after only their agreement, so it's completely pointless for us to say anything here, it's completely pointless to have the National Assembly, it's enough for us to have Tadic and Kostunica. That gang agreed to print out the invitations. Has this, Mr. Dulic, been printed by the National Assembly's order? Well, it is, Mr. Dulic. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia printed it. Are you the president of the National Assembly? You're not. I'm just asking, how is that possible? It's not possible. Aliens. Are we the ones who printed this in our print shop? Do you want to see who printed it now? Say, Mr. Danilovich, who is where he printed it, that you don't tell us anything here in any way. Just because you're prone to scandals like this, just because you're ready to show what kind of gang you are, because you don't respect people and citizens, that's the easiest possible word for something like this. Mr. Micunovic, let me inform you. Did you know that Mr. Dulic is the president of the National Assembly? You're not. Here, Mr. Micunovic, I'm showing you an invitation that the president of the National Assembly, Oliver Dulic, has sent to someone from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, doesn't really matter. He has the honour of calling you as president of the National Assembly. You'll come. You should be ashamed of yourself, Mr. Micunovic, which you will come to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1464	Please, Mr. Wolfie, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1465	Mr. Mrkonjic, this is the thing that shows that you should not sit there too, that no one should sit there, because Serbian citizens, on this side, with the exception of those who think differently from them, I said on this side, conditionally, that these people absolutely don't deserve it. We're looking for a report on who printed the invitations and who said Oliver Dulic was the president of the National Assembly, spent people's money, and that the people's will here was not seen, that no one knew what the MPs were thinking because it was a scandal over scandals. I'll remind you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for those who worked this morning, we've already seen here what kind of gang we're dealing with. Namely, Mr Dusan Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Bozidar Djelic, Milan Markovic and others voted for themselves as ministers. But you know when? Come on, and it's a little immoral to vote for yourself. Tomislav Nikolic, when elected president of the assembly, was restrained. That's how moral people do it. They not only voted for themselves, it doesn't matter, they voted for themselves when they weren't already MPs. Namely, at 23.30 p.m. they resigned, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, asking the camera to record it, at 23.30 p.m. they officially resigned to the office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in 23.31 and 11 seconds, minutes and 11 seconds after they were no longer MPs, they voted for themselves, ladies and gentlemen. If it's not a scandal, if it's not banditism of its kind, then I really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1466	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1467	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of what Mr. Alexander Vukic said, this unprecedented scandal that took place, I must inform the citizens of Serbia that they have introduced a crisis headquarters into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Oliver Dulic and DS. As you did after the five-octobaric coup, when you entered the state institutions, the National Bank, the Customs Administration, the Kragujevac flag, with the phantoms on your head, Dinkic, Zabunović and the rest of the Serbian mafia, so now, Mr Dulic, I am speaking to you as a candidate for the National Assembly, the Service of the Protocol of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to you from the DSS, because you obviously do not have any face or honor, nor are you ashamed to apologize for all these things you are doing these days. You have launched the whole heik and harangu against a man who was the only one willing to respect democratic principles, elected President Tomislav Nikolic. Your mentors from the West, your brothers the Croats and their national television, and all those who rose up against democratic will were then expressed in the Assembly. What I have in my hand is another scandal. Here, look what it says. This came to me yesterday in the cabinet of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and it writes well, they speak to me and say, "We inform you that the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Rene van der Linden, will be staying on official visit to Serbia. ''That's the one who first announced against the election of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who was democratically elected, because they are double arches with your friends in the Council of Europe. When it comes to Dulic, when it comes to someone else, he can, and when it comes to Tomislav Nikolic, he can't. And you see what it says: "According to the programme of visits, we are scheduled to meet with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (which we have the president, whether we have him; we do not have him, we have the chairman, Mrkonjic and the two of us who are vice presidents) for Wednesday (see, tomorrow morning), on 23 May, at an interval of 8.15 to 9.00 am, at the House of National Assembly, Trg Nikola Pasic 13. And he says, "The above-mentioned meeting would be attended (really, ask the rest of you, and what not you, ask yourselves, Mr. Canak, and ask yourselves, gentlemen of the SPS, may the other 80 MPs of the SRS and 79 be asked next to you, and Mr. Oliver Dulic, Mr. Radojko Obradović, Mr. Bozidar Delic, Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, Mr. Esad Juddžević and Mr. Miloljub Albianić." Service protocol yesterday, 21st at a certain time. Is that normal? You're not just playing with us here, but with the institution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and you want to go to Europe, and you're lying to Van der Linden that you have the President of the Assembly and you're making a protocol for him. There's nothing more a man can say, crisis headquarters and nothing else, that's your democracy, and that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1468	Thank you, Natasha. Mr Oliver Dulic answered the question. Mr. Dulico, will you or won't you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me agree with Mr. Wolfich, this is a scandal, I am not behind this letter. I didn't sign any invitation, nor would I dare sign anything until I was elected president. I'm sorry about this, and I'd like to find the culprit. I'll make sure the culprit is found and you'll be informed about it. So this is no way to work, and thank you for showing us this, this is not how it's going to work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1470	Thank you, Mr. Dulic. Milisav Petronijevic came to the floor. Here you go, Miso. We're continuing our discussion, and we're going to investigate the conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman of Mrkonjic, the DS has tried to copy you in the worst possible way. She heard you were building bridges and roads before the deadline, so she thought the president of the assembly might exist before the deadline. I promise both the chairman and you, after all this time, that I will not talk about Subotica or minorities or the Bujanovac, I will talk about what the subject of the agenda is. I won't even let the discussion of Mrs. Comic confuse me, and I'll only promise, because she invited everyone to think twice, let me say, I've thought three times and I won't vote for the proposed candidate for National Assembly president. The SPS parliamentary group has already declared that. We will not support Mr Oliver Dulic's election as president of the National Assembly. Not to explain now, as it is well said, that is the definition of the opposition, we are not part of the majority, and fellow MPs Ivica Dacic and Dr Zarko Obradovic have very detailedly presented all the reasons why this proposal should not be voted on. I'm just gonna stick around for one more reason, and I want to get to know the public first and foremost. I want Serbia to actually...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1472	I'm sorry, Misho, please. I ask you for order and peace, let us bring this part of the session to an end. Don't make me show what I know. We'll give you back your time, Aca Wolfie will give you 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1473	I want Serbia to see again publicly two people of the same so-called democratic bloc. I must thank Professor Micunovic for his presentation on democratic principles. His statement on democratic principles assured me that this proposal should not be voted on. So, not questioning the principles. Because the proposed candidate does not guarantee that the Assembly will be a place where different political options are expressed, where different political options are respected, where it is unhindered that all MPs have democratic legitimacy, because each MP, or all of them, has given his own court in elections. It does not guarantee that the Assembly is the only place, the only institution, from the government institutions in this country, where all, where all relevant factors, all parties that have been given the right to be in the Assembly and the only place to negotiate, are to establish a national consensus on all important issues that are before Serbia, and so much to Serbia. On the contrary, both the candidate and the congregation majority as so-called. The democratic bloc has proved quite the opposite in the previous days. One sentence from Mr. Dulic's presentation was that it belonged to people who needed to be installed to change their relationship with the National Assembly. This is how installed I think they've changed their relationship. Of course, I don't count on the relationship between the majority and the minority, most of them have changed, but some well-preserved relations here have changed, and that's respect for the rights of the majority. The SPS is a democratically profiled left party and respects the right for the assembly majority to propose its candidate, but differs from that so-called. a democratic bloc that the democratic bloc does not respect that right. After all, let us compare the session of the Assembly when it is elected President of the National Assembly Mr Tomislav Nikolic today. At that time, the president of the National Assembly was elected to one of the assembly's majority, democratically, please, by provoking, a personal statement did not, according to the democratic bloc, be democratic. On the contrary, there was, in fact, an expression that the right not to be recognized that some other majority could be achieved and also be democratic. On the contrary, it's just them or nobody. Furthermore, refusal to attend congregations, participates in the work, which means that in Serbia now some other minority should, if it wants to be democratic, not to participate, not admit, etc. The broadcasting of hate messages, division, intimidation, the offering of a divided Serbia Europe, and they all know well that no one divided Serbia needs and knows well that no one can take Serbia to the European Union without the consensus that is being reached here. I only mentioned this because in that democratic bloc, Mr Dulic had the opportunity at the previous sessions to convince us very much that it is not what it stands for. A democratic block today. And finally, you don't trust that proposal yourself. I'm not talking about the one that was accidentally proposed at that assembly session, Mrs. Milosevic, so the DSS didn't accidentally vote for her because he thought Toma Nikolic was better, but now they think Oliver Dulic is better than Tom Nikolic. I don't want to comment. But there is no trust among you either, as when the government was elected here, as the minister suggested from which party, so was applause only from that party. That's right tonight, only the Democratic Party defends Oliver Dulic's proposal. In the end, I repeat, we will not vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1474	Thank you very much. Mr. Zoran Krasic, let Miletic Mihajlovic be prepared. Slavisa Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure, excuse me. All right, here you go, then we'll go after Slavish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1475	It is on the agenda that the Democratic Party's proposal to elect MP Oliver Dulic as National Assembly President is on the agenda. A few hours ago it was really difficult for those first participants in this debate to discuss a little closer to the proposed candidate, because at first, so many affirmative things were presented, such as education, youth, tenacity, tenacity, preparedness, so that most of the people in this room somehow approached this speaker with suspicion, until this debate took some of its course. Then there was a big feller on the surface, a big flaw. There's something called insolence, grampity. In politics, it's good to be persistent, but it shouldn't be grammatical. The proposed candidate found it appropriate to interpret that this item of the agenda is a routine thing, that it is necessary only for him to appear with his character and part of this speaker, dictate strategic goals, not the Democratic Party, that I must tell you, these are some other people's strategic goals. And then he drew attention to something called biography and reasoning of this proposal, and I really got the impression that there were only some more codes missing here, 007 or CV siv biography for working in some services, which proved to have caused great damage to this country. Of course, I had to pay attention to what the proposed candidate for the National Assembly announced in his opening address. I expected at least that he would repeat that song from 91st -- that he would plead about tolerance, the need to talk in parliament, to hear different opinions, that he swears he was only the first among the equals, as they taught him. Although he was young, he could not learn from the father of democracy in Serbia. Otherwise it's the one that the Federal Assembly said -- his right to speak in the Assembly is so strong, they can free on spears or on sabers, peaks, wear it, throw it, fight for democracy until the last drop of blood. And it doesn't lie to the devil, when he becomes president of the assembly, he shows what democracy is like in practice. So we have a torn personality, when he's in opposition, he's a democratic illusionist, and when he's in power, then he shows himself as a democratic practitioner who retains his right to be democratic authority. The exclusive right was granted only to Vojislav Kostunica in November 2000 -- to be a democratic standard, his will to be a democratic standard. But let's get rid of this because it's the past. What haven't we heard from the proposed candidate for National Assembly President? We have not heard at all that he will do what is the duty of the President of the Assembly - to be the first among the equal, to have the exclusive right to chair the session and to propose the agenda, and to do everything else by the National Assembly, 250 MPs. Now he has shown us how he views democracy and the parliamentary system. He says, "Some new relationships are needed in the National Assembly." Don't, please, there's a hole in the potty a long time ago. I suppose some democratic standards have been built since the bourgeois revolution, so it is known what the government is doing, what the opposition is doing, what parliament is doing, how the will of the people is respected. But the man "drives a movie" and says, "he'll promote some new relationships." Since it comes from that democratic bloc, extremely yellow, we will be reminded of the democratic standards that this hall has somehow survived, with that and the previous assembly of the National Assembly. They survived, survived that the opposition's parliamentary group couldn't have a vice president of the National Assembly because it doesn't have a majority. They survived the greatest democratic standard, he's gone, he's lost, so those who didn't vote for the government can't propose a vote of confidence to the government, so a man gets angry, gets out and makes a zebra. We have learned that the democratic standard that the president of the DS parliamentary group can, on behalf of the government, sign a guarantee and provide a guarantee, on behalf of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, don't stick to that guarantee. We experienced the fact that the president of the parliamentary group went very democratically to the CZ, made it possible to visit, visit, maintain close and warm relations with some of the people under trial. Even a few days ago, since we've long since become a state of order, so we're looking for one clan, then another clan, a few days ago while this turmoil was one picturesque graphic representation of the new government, and there were gaps, the NN perpetrators are wanted. We found that a few days ago here, in a democratic procedure. Democracy in the DS is based on 126, because the 126th can be from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, can also be from Mars, but it's all democratic because it comes from DS. How are we experiencing democracy? You heard from Father DS just now. A few days ago, you were able to use stones and shotguns and rifles and all possible means to throw at Tomislav Nikolic, and to remove some majority of the MPs, so that Tomislav Nikolic would not be elected president of the National Assembly. But if the proposed DS candidate for National Assembly president is, then the rhetorical thinking of Gordana Comic is about the need for tolerance. Although that's not clear to me, because tolerance is required by someone who's stronger. It's stupid to ask for tolerance from the weak. How to ask for tolerance from the weak, then ask him to bend, that you beat him even more. But she's looking for that kind of tolerance, because she cherishes the warmth and love of dialogue. In this warmth and love of dialogue, the DS is also being dragged into the OTPOR, funded from abroad as a destructive force, which, up until a few years ago, may have caused a change in an ambassador to the United States, William Montgomery, because he was referring to them. He couldn't justify the funds, and they got killed for money. Here are their representatives here, and now we're going to see CESID, the NGO, objective, which has code 1+1 equals two. Imagine that, that's what Lucice invented. Now we're going to have another Lucic, we're going to have one, call Todorovic, and Perisa, a man who has been doing this job for 30 years, will have to step up to the new DS forces, which are not only in the DS, but in NGOs, destructive forces, even in those who boast that Alexa Zunic are on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. These forces suggest this young man, who in his biography is increasingly something that looks like a trained and prepared for another stage, which is new people. That's what Mr. Proposed Candidate said, new people are needed. You should know that people in the National Assembly only determine citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. You're not gonna change people, are you? We saw this once, when the professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, otherwise members of the GSS and DS, fell into a grave and irrefutable legal delusion. Who was in legal error? plagiar Lilić and founder Dragore Hiber. And then? Then new people came. How long did their term of office last? Until the federal constitutional court's solution. Another piece of evidence of what it looks like to be a democracy in the performance of the DS, which in practice behaves as Alibaba and 40 robbers. Thieves. Yes, it is. Furthermore, the proposed candidate for the president of the National Assembly says, and by the way, it is a young man who has been calling through the services of the National Assembly for a month, whom you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and you at meetings to prepare the National Assembly meetings respect, and not only you, but also all the other representatives of the parliamentary groups, but also, Maltans, in some way, recognise the legitimacy of the elected president of the National Assembly, which he is not yet. Given where the elections are and when DS participates in them, then make sure you watch the clock. We just had a chance to see that people who did not vote for themselves as ministers in the pro-democracy government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is defined for Euro-Atlantic integration, with the intention that all members of the government know how to swim, so as not to drown in the Atlantic. Of course, some news has been leaked in our newspaper that possibly Serbia can be admitted into the European Union for probably the next 23 to 25 years, since a firm decision on the ban on the spread and admission of new states to UN membership is still in force. That's what the democratic media say, headed by one who had an annual HDZ assembly at the Expo Center the other day or last night. So he says he throws out insults and ugly words. Mr. Dulic, I'm considered to be the most insolent MP in the National Assembly. I've never let myself say in public what you've said in these few days. You see, some of them didn't want to be members of the delegations because I'm hateful as a phenomenon and they don't want to be with me in society. It's been two days, so they're drinking coffee with me. You know. No one's ever asked me if it's my pleasure to be with you. Of course, I don't want to make a statement about it. Why? Because I'm not here on my own terms, I'm here because I'm an MP and I have a job to do. If you're supposed to be president, so you show that kind of disgust to work and people, you don't meet the basic conditions. In order for it not to turn out that Mr. Dulic does not meet any of the conditions for election for the president of the National Assembly, I must say that he meets two minimums, and that is formal: he is a national MP and has a sufficient number of signatures for his candidacy. As for the other criteria, in my opinion, it doesn't meet. And without delusion, it's not the fruit of my imagination, it's the fruit of the recognition of the proposed candidate. He, well, the man came out for a pay phone, no one forced him, no one forced him out, opened his soul and said what he thought and proved that he was essentially unsatisfactory. With him, the democratic structure of a person has not matured for such a strong function. Since many feared Tomislav Nikolic as the president of the National Assembly, because, God forbid something should happen to Boris Tadic, he takes over as the performer of the duty of the Republic of Serbia. You can imagine in that variant, God forbid, Mr. Dulic as acting president of the Republic of Serbia. It's very dangerous when someone's playing with democracy, so he thinks it's a fire that can be lit and only burn three curtains and four butters. I'll remind you of some things. We had the acting president of the National Assembly, yes, it was tragic how this function was performed. This function was more performed on the basis of the presence of a gentleman right where Mrs. Hope Kolundji is sitting. Mrs. Nado, I'd like to ask you to move away from that place, because it's the most jinxful place in this building. There was Gorica Gajević, Baki Angelkovic, there was Ceda Jovanovic sitting, there was Bojan Pajtic, Aligrudic saved himself because he moved to the other side. Move away from there, because there are some water streams and it affects the mental health of the person sitting there. This is what I advise you most well-intentionedly. Why? This is what these senior MPs know, every year I warn someone, because usually some vibrations come from that place. They're not positive, you know. I must warn you of one thing. As long as she was the acting officer, the chief performer of duty was the gentleman who was sitting there, you were sitting a little further, Mrs. Nado. What happened to the last call? Will the Martian be the president of the National Assembly, whether dear minister, but it happened that the acting president of the Republic was the vice president of the National Assembly. And do you know who? Vojislav Mihajlović. However, it was one day and two nights. Immediately, G 17 plus Predrag Markovic was proposed and he was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying all this? This isn't so much fun, you know, this is tragic and sick, because someone is easy to play with institutions and there's just no way to form a democratic standard here. When all those who broke two sherpas and spent all possible whistles, and after the rest of the job, after they had come to power – of course, arson, holahopke, you see hoolachs is not a foreign term in DS, I thought it was an exception in 2000, and a few days ago we heard that the army was going to be wearing hoolahopke, because Minister Sutanovac was showing the benefits of this new form of weapons, yes, it was, because they brought the Army down to the Cobras that protect this, it's our army – you see, when everyone was expecting new democratic standards, hate arose. Hate for democracy, not hatred for a political inexperience. You of the DS will never hear criticism of other people's political opinion or attitude, but of that individual or that group. That's what you had a chance to hear on May 7th. You saw the rage. I was simply worried, when that election was over, that some DS fins would not kill a heart attack just on their way out of the Federal Assembly, where Vlajko Stojljkovic committed suicide. They ate out of the place, as they say, ate themselves, so that theirs could not pass. Where's the tolerance? Where's that fostering public criticism, debates, confrontations of opinion? We only have force here. We've got force. Wasn't this perhaps a turning year when it was meant to show that the opposition's representative could successfully lead the National Assembly, because the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would oblige him to be the speaker, the first among the equals? But no. You don't need a president of the National Assembly to be a speaker. You need a president of the National Assembly as a backup variant that will run, who will travel the world and make DS views. You need to know, when DS goes into international political activity, government or this party, they only have one topic, help not to let radicals come to power. There is no other theme. Well, I've been to those delegations a little bit, so I know how they represent it there. First sentence in English, then 16 in Serbian, since they all know the language. In the second sentence, could you tell us what we need to do in Serbia? There's no source of our interest, our position, which should be lobbyed, forced and distracted that there's something different. In the end, if I don't waste my MP's time, I have to draw attention to you that it's not good for a man who hasn't been elected to open up the issue of television transmissions yet. Although unarranged, the cultural aspect of the session, then parliament is unable to meet the challenges. The man only a candidate, he concluded that parliament is unable to meet the challenges, and the Assembly in the previous assembly, now I may be wrong about 20 laws, but probably over 270 laws have been passed, and none is applied. No law enforcement. Here everyone in that NGO sector can change the uniform and get some function in the structure of the state government, be empowered to receive someone from abroad, go to the "Sava Center" or the "Expo" a little bit, and be wise, that they make views like some agency or commission, and then let the public know -- well, we're going to step on the government and ask for that, too. There is no state structure, there is no normal exercise of power, and if the Democrats sits in the seat of the National Assembly president, then, gentlemen MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you will see only what the third instance of a dance called democracy looks like in the way the DS is experiencing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1476	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr Miletic, then Mihajlovic. Have Dr. Goran Cvetanovic prepare himself. I'm sorry, Slavisha by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1477	Mr. Chairman, I insist you remember my name and name, because this is already who knows which time you're wrong. (President: The second time, it's no big deal. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. You've heard various praises for the democratic candidate for Parliament Speaker, Mr Oliver Dulic. It has been said that Mr. Dulic is a young experienced doctor, who will do everything from this high office of the Serbian Parliament's president, as you have already shown, you are already placing him without Parliament's vote on the presidency, and will lead Serbia safely through European integration. As we heard Mr. Dulic, in his presentation, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you would think a man would speak of someone who is politically undetermined, non-partisan, who will seek to restore dignity and raise the level in parliament. Mr. Dulic is already saying what he will do, without putting the president in office. But what's really going on here? When Serbia received the president of parliament two weeks ago, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, everyone rose, I think of these enemies of Serbia, who bombed us for 78 days, they are the same friends, that this is the end of the road for Serbia to European integration, that they have fallen stock on the stock market, that capital investment will stop in Serbia. Imagine the extent to which they dared to publicly protest against the people's will, when Mrs Sonja Licht, Mr Aleksandar Vukic said earlier, on TV B92 that no citizens who worked at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade should be treated. That's what Sonja Licht from the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence said, it's an NGO that recommended our candidate, i.e. Your candidate for Parliament's President, Corporal of Solana Boris Tadic. Let me explain to the citizens of Serbia. Serbia's enemy's recommendation is always in first place and is always the opposite of the interest of the Serb people. Of course, the President of the Republic, the Corporal of Solana, always listens to such a suggestion and suggestion, rather by order, militaryly, there's nothing. It is known about Mr Oliver Dulic's statement in the daily press that he will never presume Kosovo and Metohija to Serbia's European future. Oliver Dulic announced an advance violation of the constitution. In addition, Boris Tadic, at the recommendation of Sonja Licht, proposes to run as parliament speaker. A question for Serbian citizens, who are now monitoring this transmission -- what outcome can Serbian citizens expect around Kosovo and Metohija, when Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, their parliamentary majority, place such a man as the president of the Serbian parliament? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Slavisa Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1478	Please, Mr. Topalovich. Here you go, Mr. Miletic. Get Dr. Goran Cvetanovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1479	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would really like now to see the candidate for the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, fulfill in that part his promise to lead this assembly in a correct manner, to have everyone equal to him and to treat all MPs and all MPs with respect to matters that are on the agenda. Certainly, his help would be significant. I'd like that very much. Unfortunately, at this point, I am concerned that this will be very difficult to achieve, considering that it belongs to what they have shared in Serbia and that by his actions, he has contributed to such a division, one such fissure of Serbia, and that what I said could be achieved is difficult. So, in the context of our Serbian divisions, and it seems that we are fatefully destined for such a thing, it is almost impossible to come out of such an evil fate, because it is clear that all-powerful political centres of power are modeling the world and constantly feeding and deepening our differences and making our divisions. The fact is that Mr. Dulic was a member of the Resistance, an organisation funded from the West, does not give a good recommendation on what will be needed here at the head of the Assembly to make it appear. Taking into account the positivity of some important political entities in our country, therefore their need for their modernity, their pro-European orientation, their political excellence and exclusion to show through a prominent serviality in relation to the creators of the new world, it is true that the state of Serbia is decomposing itself, that is to say, of its potential which is today and how it is needed. So our divisions are being handled and fed continuously, they deepen and are not in the interest of the Serbian people and its citizens, and are not in the interest of the Serbian state. It's certainly in the interest of global goals, of those powerful men who track it and heat it up. It is clear that it is very difficult to defend Kosovo and Metohija and it is easier to take in such a section, which is on the scene today, which is eyelessly deepening and conducting on the side. These are the interests of those who create a political picture and movement here in Serbia. But I guess it is in the interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens to define, as responsible people, what are national priorities, to show the world that we are complex and consensual. It just takes at least a minimum of these priorities to define and bring to the common forces a single attempt to realise these priorities. You don't think, gentlemen, I suppose it's you who are from the so-called. The miles of democratic implementation are enough for yourself and enough for this Serbia to solve all the problems that are on the agenda, to defend the subjectivity and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, to defend Kosovo and Metohija, without what is potential in that other half of Serbia, which you do not accept, and which, in fact, you contribute to one part and it is on the other side exclusive, which is harmful to Serbia. Even under the ruling coalition, it seems there is no defined order of priorities. We have for some that this is Kosovo and Metohija, above all, actually a unique and comprehensive Serbia, which consists of Kosovo and Metohija in the EU. And on the other hand, within the ruling coalition, which we had the first day after the government formed, that current Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic told European officials that the most important priority was to join the EU, therefore, and what is being said here about Oliver Dulic, if that is true. In this way we have to send a message to the world that the EU for Serbia – yes, even if Serbia remains within the limits of the 1878 Berlin Congress, which is Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, without Raska and without Vojvodina, it is a priority, that Serbia should be. You cannot bring Serbia into European integration comprehensively without what is one agreement, one consensus in terms of using all forces, all energy and the overall potential of intellectual, political, etc. Here we act as if there are two warring sides and we are the greatest enemies of each other. There are no other enemies beyond the borders of this country. That's why Serbia needs to mobilise all the forces, all the potentials, because then they won't be able to pull us apart, to tear us apart like that. To mention the idea of forming a government of national unity or a concentration government, which would have contributed to what I was talking about, as if the worst heresy in the world had been said and done. I'm asking a question, well, if a government is formed within the so-called. The block, let it be, it's the right of that majority to take responsibility. But why at least the mobilization and other forces within parliament could not have been done, means, on one basis, Serbia, and parliament is certainly the foundation and foundation of what the institutions are in Serbia, that at least there we have the mobilization of all the forces and all the potentials, and certainly that the government would be easier to do in what it stands for. (President: Time, Mr. Michaelovich. ) For these reasons, we do not want to vote for Oliver Dulic, not because there are some personal reasons, I said at the beginning that I would very much like to be wrong about some things, but all of this is not a recommendation for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1480	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Mr Cvetanovic has a word, so let Miss Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1481	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever citizens expected important decisions in the country, which will be in the interest of everyone, the DS and the DSS have blocked all vital functions in our country because of their party interests. The word "blockada" in its genealogy contains the word "block", so finally after a series of examples in practice, both at the local and republican level, we can conclude that after each association of DS and DSS in the bloc, the inevitable blockade in the functioning of institutions. Democratic bloc's amnesia has become a chronic disease. I'll remind you why I gave this definition. Mr. Dusan Prorokovic, MP of the DSS, on national television, along with Mr. Markovic of the DS, made it clear that DSS representatives cannot vote for Parliament Speaker Mrs. Milena Milosevic, ''because in seven years, she has not said a word. ''I agree that it is true, but there is a reason for Mr Dulic, that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be chosen because of the parliamentary experience so far. If it's an experience to sit and listen, I agree, and by passive relations there are many things to learn, especially if he listens to MPs from the ranks of the SRS, and there's already enough experience gained and then he's a good candidate. But I can't understand the DSS MPs having two archivals, that they claim and do not vote for Mrs Milosevic, but that they can now vote and have signed to vote for Mr Dulic. That's why I want to say that the SRS reminds the government that they got trust from the citizens and that they're here because of them. In view of the fact that part of Europe, I underline - part of Europe, makes fun of democracy, primarily undoing the electoral will of citizens in Serbia, and we know that over a million and 200,000 citizens voted in favour of the SRS, we have witnessed that part of the same Europe tells all of us that the elections in Serbia are too high, that we have wasted citizens' money in vain. Why? Because it would be much more economical, because despite the seven-year support of Europe we are still the poorest country in the environment, that this same part of Europe immediately tells us, without democratic elections, the name of the president of the Assembly, the name of the public prosecutor, the name of the judges. European High Representatives have blackmailed Serbia without even getting their hands dirty, as they have conducted their maneuvers primarily through their adjutants who are sitting here today in the DS, DSS and G17 plus ranks. Through them today they throw dust into Serbian citizens' eyes by selling love and threatening isolation. There is no democracy without political pluralism, and they today exclude the existence of over a million and 200,000 citizens who love and respect the idea of the SRS. The DS and DSS representatives are helping them today to, instead of joining us, go to Europe, divide and divide our people, killing the idea of political dialogue, above all, inexperience, and that is, we have to admit, the basis of every democracy. Do they today tell citizens of Serbia, who have given us confidence, that they are citizens of the second order, that there is no place for us in Europe? Is that a new direction for Nazism? They claim they want us in Europe, but it costs all of Kosovo and Metohija. What is happening today in Serbia, in Europe, because Serbia is part of Europe, here in our places, is called the intolerable dictatorship of democracy. First of all, the love they bring us from Europe and which they give us from this Europe is love, but love with many conditions, and democracy with so much blackmail, I'm sure, you'll agree with me, and it's not a democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1482	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, let Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll probably surprise my colleague Dulic, given that I will now publicly promise you that on my part you will receive one gift, which is not unique to you Democrats, because you are used to kidnapping and taking as much as you need, putting it in your bills, in your pockets, robbing companies. But this gift will be the most valuable to you, given that, as time passes and as you are a candidate, it is a mistake in the synopsis since this morning, your Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and G17 Plus, and not only the Democratic Party, so the book that I will bring to you on the gift is "Political System", Professor Vojislav Seselj, a textbook for the fourth year of the Law School in Belgrade. Otherwise, for your information, these lectures were the most visited by students who wanted to hear something about democracy, about democratic processes. There you will see, Mr. Dulic, that you have already made your first initial mistakes today. Because if you had read some of this, not only of Mr. Seselj, but you had acquired knowledge, not in the centres of America, for the briefing you were a member of the Resistance, as it was in Budapest, about the coup that took place on October 5th, so as there have been attempts in Belarus, then in Ukraine and Georgia, you would know that in Serbia parliamentary democracy has a long and very bright tradition in Serbian history, and that night when you spoke about Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, that you had read it all and knew, you would have taken on these very traditions and what Serbia really has and what it boasts and prides, you called. Like this, you have said in your pledoa today many things that are completely coming out of your jurisdiction, as the future president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and all that you've taxed is in the authority of other branch authorities in the country, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the President of the Republic, you've also entered Tadic's portfolio. But I'm not surprised, because from that school, you were praised today as a longtime member of the Democratic Party, but the citizens of Serbia should be surprised at the fact, that's what Radeta's colleague said today, that the president of your party, who proposed you along with his colleagues for this function, a million and 152 thousand at least, and many of those who did not exercise their electoral right, has called you self-called patriots. As for your intentions and what you will do in the first days when you sit in the chair of the President of the Assembly, it is obvious, Mr. Dulic, that you do not stick to the letter of the Constitution, because you skipped those first and necessary steps that you should take, and if you had been lucky and listened, you and your Democratic Party, and Boris Tadic, on two occasions, from February 14th to seven or ten days ago, Tomislav Nikolic, we would have already entered this necessary law-making process that stems from the letters of law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So at least I expected you to start from it, not threaten to think about eliminating direct congregation transfers, because, you know, there's 81 Serbian radicals sitting here, we've had various attempts to choke and end democracy, they've brought us out. I, and that's the only thing you respected for me in the election day of the vice president, had to do then, the president of the Serbian Parliament because in the most dramatic way, it violated the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and because the MPs, starting with the first among us since 1991, Dr Vojislav Seselj, through all of us, had experienced the greatest shakaning and harassment here. Some with phantoms on their heads and shoes, armed men, entered here in 1995, when a direct transmission was interrupted and when SRS MPs were beaten, including three women, Mrs Elvir Fekete, Mrs Tabakovic and counterpart Dusica Nikolic. In the Dosovo government since 2000, the new method of democracy has been to rip out the MPs' hands and legs, including today, co-worker Cvetanovic, in a court dispute with the former president of the Serbian Parliament because of the injuries that were inflicted on him at the time, and because of the fact that one MP, who was in total collapse, had been beaten by the Dossov authorities' order, Mr. Steve Kesjejic, had to be taken urgently to the Emergency Centre, where they fought for hours for his life. I'm surprised you didn't think of it, saying it would never happen again in Serbia, and that this shameful party in parliamentary democracy, or Dossovan rule, is something you deny, even though, as a young man, you've probably strayed into that Resistance, but I don't believe that it is. Because most of all, it was admitted by some of your predecessors, especially from the DSS, like colleagues Karaičić, that the motive for it was money. So, you had to promise today, Mr. Dulic, that you would urgently hold a vote at the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put a vote on civil protection laws and the exercise of citizens' rights to information, so that we would really have the opportunity to inform ourselves of all the affairs, abuses and malfeasances of the current ministers in the government, who are up to their necks connected with, at least, the dishonest and criminal actions, and tycoons. That you will choose the protection of citizens, that you will tell us when a state audit institution body will be established, that is, because six years ago we have no final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because of your "transparentity" and Serbian citizens do not know where hundreds of billions of dinars of Serbian citizens' budget are spent. It was your job and that's what you can do by members 27 and 28. Rules of Procedure, and these are your constitutional powers. No, you even went one step further, Mr Dulic, and you said, by insulting every MP, regardless of whether he is now in the first assembly council or us who, here, for the fourth time, some fifth and sixth time, you said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the moment you are elected, must have a higher cultural level. If you're going to have a role model for Voju Brajovic, whom you've taken as Minister of Culture, then indeed the Assembly will have the lowest possible cultural level, but I don't think it's right for you to characterise a whole period of recent history from 1990 to today. You said - the Assembly speaker and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was used for everything and everything. As your colleagues now see it, here comes Dr Antonijevic from the DSS, something doesn't support you today, as they look at how you treat an institution, the legislative branch of the government, in which they sat and boasted in the past session by voting with you, of course, because the DS seems to me to have voted for the 112 laws of Kostunica's government, even though you have played the opposition in the past term. You should have said that you were going to improve the rights of the MPs, and that's not just yours, and I see that only the vision of the DS is in the process of passing laws on the National Assembly. A law regulating the obligations and rights of MPs, defined by the Labour Rules, was passed long ago in 1991. Since then, a lot of water has passed by Sava and Danube and no one for the last seven years, to you DOS deputies, since you are already in the third DOS government, to advance, by passing a new law, and democratic processes. She is wrong, co-worker Comic, who said that the task force in the law version has incorporated pension and disability rights in an inappropriate way, although I do not defend it and do not represent the position as a representative of the SRS. You know very well that this commission, which also had a colleague, Verica Radeta, worked for several months, you should have told your colleague, Dulic, and that it was governed by comparative legislation, and that from several combined members of the individual laws on the environment and the world, she wanted, this working group, to propose to the National Assembly the law. Somehow, it seems to me, and other SRS MPs, especially counterpart Krasic, have noticed that you have particularly apostrophe of European integration. They haven't informed you, Mr. Dulic, it's a very important segment of your ignorance, and now you're going to complete it, that Article 239a, since we haven't received the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, implies that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has parliamentary groups of friendships. These parliamentary group of friendships, after taking over competence from the former Assembly of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, has a total of 42, asking us MPs to make a voluntary statement, which we Serbian radicals are very happy to do, pleading for co-operation with friendly countries, with countries that protect rights and Hague prisoners and our presidents, which protect our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and several of these delegations have been formed. Now you, as president of the National Assembly, become so exclusive and say that you will exclusively manage the principle of co-operation with EU countries and European integration. Some of them have been formed, now the question is how will these parliaments react and these colleagues from these countries, if they hear what you have said. You have both China and India and Indonesia, the Russian Federation. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian State Duma have signed a protocol on co-operation, and you should know that, without talking about many other countries like Mexico, where Mrs Pesic was an ambassador, then Australia and many others, with whom we need and we need to maintain contacts and relations, if we want real parliamentary co-operation and if we want to seek co-operation with countries that have such experiences, especially those who are struggling in the process of globalisation, which Americans and Western forces are conducting. As for all the other really bad words you have sent to the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, let them serve you honorably and we will see if such an unspeakable one, above all, unspeakable, because you have tried to explain it to only so - I apologize, I have read in a stenogram after ten days and I have seen that I have offended you; although you cannot insult me, it can only hurt me that the people under your authority are so hard to live and that millions of people have nothing to eat, and that they have again in power to kidnap and rob; but today, Mr. Dulic, you have said that you have read and seen that you have been exclusive and that you will correct it. Based on what you said today and on the conduct of the discussion in the previous days, I don't think you'll be able to do it. We will see and follow, but I suggest you, as someone who has a greater parliamentary standing in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you exclusively stick to the letters of the Constitution and the law. In the end, I try to make a little joke, although it's not funny for the citizens of Serbia, because they are primarily disappointed by the fact that the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been undermined, that you treat it, especially from the DS, as a slave to the government. I think, Mr. Dulic, and we have obvious evidence of that, and the printing of this invitation for the day after tomorrow, and this memo, I think this is because of the fact, Mr. Dulic, and you should know as future president, that we have been waiting two and a half years for a report on the robbery of Hamovic and Lazarevic in the EPS, on the basis of what the poll committee has established, chaired by Mr. Vukic, so I think you will be more zealous in that regard and will be delivering the report to us next week. That's why this electricity thing is happening. I say in the end that I make a joke, although I think that there is absolutely nothing funny to the citizens, especially after the election of the government of Kostunica - Tadic, given that these invitations have been printed, and you have not yet been elected, that you are invited to a meeting tomorrow as president of the Parliament Assembly of the Council of Europe, I think Mr. Dulic has already called your home, or one man, Pera scribe from the administrative office, remember, Pera scribe from the administrative office, that you have already been elected president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1484	Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic. The SPS only has two minutes left, Zeljko. Have Dr. Pai Mamchilov prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to say at the beginning of my speech, although I will not vote for Mr Dulic, be sure that I will be one of the first to give him my hand, congratulate and wish him good work as President of Parliament, because we all need to raise this Parliament's ratings to the people. But, Mr. Dolliche, I'll draw your attention to a few things. First of all, I want to tell you that I am pleased with the analysis you gave in your opening speech and that you guessed 100%, but you did not look back on the words of self-critics and say what you did with your presentations, especially on the night of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's replacement, did so that the rating of this parliament would collapse to this level at which it is. Also, Mr. Dulic, you must be aware of one fact that on the night of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic's election as Parliament's president, you have been disgraced to leave parliament. You didn't have the courage to look into his eyes, to congratulate him and give him your hand, which also brought down this House's ratings. It will take us a long time to get out of these problems and this low rating, because we have divided on two sides of parliament, we share both sides and Serbia, which is certainly not good for Serbia. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you. Normally, I don't know the answer to that question, but you will. After the election, will you accept the visit of the Russian ambassador to your cabinet, which is doubtless so? Will you ask him to insist or guarantee that Russia will veto the Security Council resolution? Will you ask him to remain in the principles and positions of defence of Serbia and Kosovo's territorial integrity and Metohija within Serbia, and will you ask him to invest his resources further in the development of Serbia's economy and industry, which is very important. Finally, Mr. Dulic, the importance of the function to which you will be elected requires that, above the personal views and views of your party, you represent the views of Serbian citizens and citizens of all MPs, regardless of which parliamentary groups they come from. I need to introduce you to a fact that he's a member of 69. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has undertaken the state's obligation to take special care of war veterans, wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters. I expect you as president of the Assembly to take particular account of this population, which I doubt, or I suppose it won't be, given the political option you represent, but I hope that given the years you have the strength to do so, you will. Why do I ask you that, and why do I want to tell you that? Today, in the Serbian Parliament, in a parliamentary group of SPS and with me as a representative of the Veterans Movement, a delegation of war veterans, a participant of the 1990s from Prokuplje and Kursumija, came to discuss. They are facing a very big problem, and the problem is that a number of war participants have managed to charge war logs for a period of participation in the war, and I have to tell you that these figures are very important, especially for those people living in southern Serbia, in a really poor environment. These amounts range between 400,000 and 500,000 dinars. This would not be terrible if those judgments could be given to others, not just individuals who work in courts, individuals whose wives work as judges in these courts and whose friends are employed. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Dulic? Because this problem will be met primarily by two Democratic Party ministers, and I assume that you, as president of the Assembly and representative of all Serbian citizens, will be involved in solving this significant problem, means it is the defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, and Minister of Justice, Mr Petrovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1486	The word is Mr. Pai Boys. Let's get Mrs. Witch Radeta ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today also discussing a candidate for the president of the Serbian Parliament. As you have heard from Tomislav Nikolic, we will not vote for this proposal for clear reasons. However, I am obliged to shed some light on this proposal on the other hand. Personally, I'm not inclined to deal with the candidate himself. Perhaps I can even say that Oliver Dulic probably represents a capable, perspective, young man, doctor and politician. I personally don't have any specific knowledge that I can criticize him and I don't have that need. The fact is that we heard in this debate that it was a versatile person, a Renaissance guy, who comes and has his own private company, which also complements the picture of our candidate. I would be free to say that the way it was proposed is an insult and an insult both to the Serbian parliament and to the citizens of Serbia. Maybe I said the hard words, and then I should prove it. Look at the suggestion, you had it all in your hands. He says, the MPs, quite indefinitely, are the authors of this proposal and then you see one biography, very short, concise, which represents one conglomerate and a mixture of strange merit in medicine and merit in politics. Why did I say weird? Because only in one sentence do you have logical illogicalness and pleonases, so you can see what it looks like. He says this: During his studies he published eight papers as an author and coauthor from several areas of surgery, which were published at foreign student conventions. Please, the congressional papers are presented, and they can be published in the chambers. You know that clearly. A circus like this and writing like this resembles unskilled people who write about things they don't know. Then let's go further into the same sentence, just to end it, says this: which are published at foreign conventions -- and then lists -- in Berlin, Cairo and Miami, as well as three co-authors at domestic conventions. Look, it's already been said in advance that they're copyrighted and co-authorized, so now they're bringing back three co-authors in the same sentence, but where they're eight: three and three are six. Such a disgrace and shame. This, if a young colleague applied for a competition at the Faculty of Medicine for an assistant, would be returned and would challenge the credibility of his lecturer. Who's the proposer of this? It's not a young colleague, it's his party, which is doing him a bear favor and making him a cartoon here. Next, what's the problem with a colleague of the basics? That's what my party colleagues said - 32 years old. In order for someone to be president of parliament, you said how important this function is, then I guess there are some criteria, competences, qualifications, experience, responsibilities, and finally to say, perhaps a reputation. But with whom he sees - the position and the opposition, because he is in democratic societies. We're 32 years old. You say we go to Europe, you say you want Euro-Atlantic integration. Let's take a look at your ideals. You love a lot of Americans and Americans. Who's the speaker at the U.S. Congress? Nancy Pelosi, a lady who for 18 years represented California in parliament, which is in the seventh decade of her life. Let's move on, to the cradle of parliamentaryism, to go to England. Whoever's in charge - Michael Martin, 62 years old is an old gentleman. To go to Germany, these are all the democratic countries you seek. Let's see, Norbert Lambert, how old he is - 59, with four children. To look at France, you will not tell me that France is not a democratic country, you who teach us democracy here. There's Patrick Olier, 63 years old. Why the countries of democracy choose experienced, politically confirmed, and the Democratic Party and this group that signed did not. It's clear. Here, institutions should be torn down and devalued, as is the position of foreign ministers, one anonymous, uneducated, who has been educated in nuclear physics, now he will lead the country's diplomacy. It's the same case, about, without guilt, a man is guilty. Now you want to convince us, and what you've been saying about your candidate. Mrs. Comic spoke for 11 minutes. She talked about women's rights for ten minutes. Is Mr. Dulic a woman at risk? What kind of a relationship to your candidate that you've been talking about him for one minute, I've stopped, you can see from the stenogram, about Mr. Dulic. You said to think twice, instead of saying unreservedly raise your hands, I believe that man. You tell us to think twice, so be careful in the Serbian jargon and language. Then we move on, as you, on the left, ask us to raise our hand for the gentleman when you don't believe in him. Look at the signature, 31% of you didn't sign for it. What does that mean, fellow Democrats? He doesn't have any support in your MP group either. Since you're not ashamed of this chameleony, while these others have all signed for the gentleman in question. Imagine what we're told in an explanation. He says this way, from his biographical, which he depicted, the depiction follows - parliamentary experience. What parliamentary experience? Ten days in the first parliament and in that federal parliament a shortened parliamentary experience. All together if you add up, not even three years. Is that some big experience? Let's take it and have it. It says – a contribution to the development of democracy from student days. What contribution? Please, no proof of that contribution. You should have written there when you went to the Germans for those consultations, when they told you what was going on in Serbia, and after Serbia-Montenegro fell apart, and a whole series of meetings abroad you were on. We wouldn't mind, we'd believe it. Don't throw it away, Mr. Ristic, if something isn't true, you come out and disprove me. He says this, reputation and constant progress in the profession. So don't make a cartoon out of a man. The man's a young doctor, proved to be a capable man. He's got good grades. He's a man who's worked for a year in the ER and he's got an orthopedic specialty. Well, what progress there is in the profession. He hasn't proven himself yet in the profession. He learns to be orthopedic. Now you see, we're winning an orthopaedic parliament. Maybe it's the psychicity of you from DS that you think a man like that will need it here, if we're going to go for the throat, if we fight, then maybe he'll be really valuable here as president, that feature of his. Watch out here, he says, "the founder of the Balkan quorum." Mr. Dulic, don't listen to Mr. Micunovic's instructions, it won't help you because he can't defend himself either, because with his age that he has value, he would sit in the place you're supposed to. Mr. Dulic, I ask you, they wrote to you here, I don't believe you are, says, "The founder of the Balkan Quorum of the Southeast European Students". That they wrote a co-founder, so I'll believe it, but we know Big Brother set it up. So if you had founded, you would have located the headquarters of that organisation in Belgrade, if not for any other reason, non-patriotic, then at least for practical reasons. I mean, here are so many false, so many half-truths and funny things that disqualify this, I say capable young man. You're doing him a bear favor, you're politically expending him. You may have decided to be a politician, but you know, at the same time, it's difficult to specialize in orthopedic surgery, studying at some economic college, private, suspicious character and politics -- it doesn't work together. The laws of physics, there are also logicists, although these logical things have not been pointed out, says our people, with one round of two chairs, it's hard to sit, i.e. It's impossible by the laws of physics. Let me tell you something, whoever's everywhere, he's practically nowhere. That's what I'm saying from the doctor's point of view, because I'm a doctor and I have the right to tell you. I don't want to gossip about political action and inaction, but this election is extremely bad, and I think MPs and others need not think twice, but three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1488	Mrs. Verica Radeta, let Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1489	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I must say at first that I am not surprised that Mr Oliver Dulic has already usurped the position of National Assembly President and falsely represented himself as National Assembly President, and officially, because we have been listening to various pearls these days from the Minister of Solana's Government. One of them, who usually responded when one of the MPs asked - what are you going to do here, thieves, so when more than half the ministers turned around, there was Mr. Bubalo, who said the other night on one television that they weren't at all upset about whether they were going to choose the government by midnight, because they were ready to choose it, even if tomorrow at noon. So they've already shown what we've been saying since the beginning, that it's a group of people who aren't interested in the Constitution or the law or any other regulation. That is how Mr Dulic here today explained how he will violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which he will violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he said. I don't understand how the President of Parliament can have a plan of work. I guess you know how parliament works, you know who's proposing regulations, you know when the regulations are put on the agenda, and really, Mr. Dulic, it has nothing to do with your personal work plan. You say that you understand that there are some problems in parliamentaryism today in Serbia, that during the debate, personal insults are being used, that MPs put the Assembly on a low cultural scale, so you said, Mr Dulic, you who said the other day that you were sorry for Mr Radet Obradovic for pushing him to sort of damage his political biography with the fact that he would be among the first to testify to a new coalition that would be a disgrace to this country. Mr. Rade Obradović, I now quote you, Mr. Dulic, has the best biography of all the people who are proposed for vice presidents of the Assembly, the best biography. He is a young man, very educated, he has had a lot of success in life, but I am afraid that this picture taken today, in which Mr. Rade Obradovic sits next to people, against whom I have nothing, who also have his own political biographies, but are not people with whom Mr. Rade Obradovic is supposed to be in society, that this picture will once be brought in, there may be a need for Mr. Rade Obradovic to retouch the photograph where he sits between Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Assembly, and two people who are proposed as vice presidents today. "One of the two people chosen as vice presidents, Mr. Dulic, chairs this assembly, gives you a word, sitting next to you, will probably change you often, so I ask you, will you shower or retouch after such sessions and sitting next to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic? You said you'd try to raise the reputation of MPs in their midst. You say the reputation of MPs in their midst is very low. Mr Dulic, don't in your heart appreciate the other MPs and don't worry about the reputation of MPs in their midst, because we all belong to political parties and we all answer to Serbian citizens in our midst in the elections. Take care of your reputation, Mr. Dulic, and for mine, most beautiful please, don't worry about it this way. You further said you'd do anything to make this National Assembly more effective. I really don't understand what you mean by that. Does this mean, since you said you were going to propose a new Rules of Procedure, that you would abolish the right to speak to the MPs, does this mean that you would abolish the possibility of submitting amendments, does this mean that you would prohibit us from speaking in the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Dulic, all you've said is out of line with what the president of the National Assembly is supposed to do. I was particularly interested in Mr Dulic's sentence that he said he would make sure that the employees of the Assembly were professionally and informatively perfected, which is fine and I have nothing against it, although they are mostly very professional and trained people. I don't just know how you tricked someone into writing that call with your signature that we talked about this morning, but you also said that you would professionally and informally perfect the MPs. Mr. Dullich, aman, are you aware of what you're saying? You will professionally or I do not know how to perfect or any MP of the SRS. If you have that kind of problem in your MP group, you solve it between you and us, and leave us out of it. I ask you best to keep an eye on Article 99 when you speak of the National Assembly. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, do not come out of that framework, Mr Oliver Dulic. We got Mr. Dulic's biography yesterday. Among other things, we found out what he's doing with all the specials and where he ended up. I see, mostly, it's in the white world, so it's the founder of the Balkan Forum, so I don't know what functions he's been getting at that level. Among other things, he is an example of the new training points of the future Serbian elite from the queen. It is therefore also the Belgrade-based Fund for Political Excellence, which was founded a year and a half ago by Sonja Licht. One of the fund's programmes is to train 500 young Serbian political leaders from 2004 to 2008. The advisor to the fund and professor Dr Slobodan Markovic says that, along with DS, DSS, G17 plus, the SPO and former OTPOR, they elect leaders to train with political skills. So, Mr. Dulic, you're one of these leaders trained by Sonja Licht. I remind you, that's the one who said on "B92" that one of her friends asked some doctors and medical institutions not to receive Serbian radical treatment. In your biography, Mr. Dulic, you say you were born on January 21st 1975 in Belgrade. You graduated from elementary and high school in Subotica, the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade. I guess this is true, and if you wanted the right biography, then you'd have to write the next one. Oliver Dulic began his political careers in the SPO as a medical student in Belgrade. Later, after a demonstration in front of the Friday-October, he moved to the Democratic Party. In Saturday, it appeared for the first time in political life in 2001 and after five-octobaric events it entered power at a local level. It's based on DG "Computers" which deals with sales of mineforming equipment by fiscalizing. He's employed at the City Hospital in Subotica at the orthopedics department. Founds a joint venture "Rolpak", Palic, Ul. Trogir No. 2. With Vujic, Bucal, Zvekic and the Belgrade MPC firm, which has 50% stake in the joint venture. During the affair, Serbia's Democratic Party, which is now voting for you, enters the Republic Parliament and after the Constitutional Court's decision to enter the federal parliament in 2004. So, Mr. Dulic, you were one of the citizens when this parliament, thanks to Bosko Ristic, had 308 MPs. Currently, it is at a specialisation in Belgrade. During the break-up in the Democratic Party between Boris Tadic and Ceda Jovanovic, he sided with Jovanovic, so that in a few days, the DS Municipal Committee in Subotica would change its decision and bow to Tadic, regardless of Oliver's great friendship with Cedo Jovanovic. So, Mr. Dulic, this is your biography and you should have introduced yourself this way. As for the SRS parliamentary group, we voted once for the president, we are moral people and we will not vote for you, like those who voted for one president five days ago, and today they will vote for another. But of course it's their morale. That they are uncomfortable and ashamed of what they are doing, I am talking about the Democratic Party of Vojislav Kostunica, today there are not five of them in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1490	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Alexander Vucic, may Ambassador Gojko Radic be prepared. I'm sorry, first Gojko Radic, then Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Gojko. The SRS has 24 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1491	We've been listening to things today. We also had lectures. Today he gave us a lecture and Mr. Micunovic, and he taught us that we shouldn't be talking about what was going on in the election campaigns. So I guess what we promise in pre-election campaigns to citizens, here through parliament we should fight and keep our promises and improve the lives of citizens, what we promised them in the campaign. But Mr. Micunovic says we shouldn't talk about it, and he's teaching us about it in particular. We of the Democratic Party campaign couldn't live, of their staff, on their myths. I just don't know if they promised them any functions or if they paid them to show up. Now that the government was elected, we saw these terrible capacities and personnel. Or maybe these encrypted people took their personnel, so they show up there as experts. Mostly DS shows up with people who, it's a matter of days, when they're going to have to answer to the law. I don't know what kind of frames are they? I would return to the election of Parliament's president, because we and the president are also from Subotica, although the speaker of the assembly is not elected in Subotica, although he is from the Democratic Party. I will now ask a few questions to the candidate for Parliament's president, as we have made promises in his political career. On the case I'm from Subotica, so I remember some promises, and if Mr. Dulic says it's not true, he has a chance and he can say, I'll remind him of some of his promises, even the demands he made to the authorities, when he was in power and his party. I don't know why he didn't execute them, but I'm going to ask about it and we're going to get an answer. Let me start with the questions. Mr. Dulic, as Chief of the District, you have made a request to Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. I don't see if there's Mr. Batic, I think he got a memo, too, it's possible that he answered. The question was that you in Subotica cannot cope with corruption and crime, that all public revenues from municipal enterprises are collected in Subotica in urbanism. There was a place run by a man, the Building Directorate. Now you have a director, you've formed a construction company and your director, and you've asked, you don't know what to do, that resistance is provided by SVM, you don't know for what reasons, that nothing in Subotica can be implemented, that all capital investments are controlled by both individuals and rich individuals, and you ask Mr. Minister to take certain activities and measures to prevent this corruption and crime. And in 2004, you become a partner in the government of SVM. Why are you leaving the Directorate for the construction of the city of Subotica, then why when you came to these documents, papers, documents, you did not launch certain procedures and did what you asked of Minister Mihajlovic? Is it your deal or some political deal, or have you lost interest? But it wouldn't surprise me either, since every day you form survey committees for each other in the Assembly. Or it's possible, here they say, that it's a percentage. If you're saying this isn't true, I can read you certain things here. Is this true? True; well, then I won't read. There's no need for me to read. Mr. Dulic, since Micunovic knows democracy, I've been thinking whether to say this or not. But I think I should say. The parliamentary elections were now and I guess I should talk about them. You've come with the votes of the voter from Subotica. I think you, Mr. Dulic, are a little bit of a misjudged by the citizens and voters in Subotica, not a little bit, I mean a lot. You made a coalition in Subotica, i.e. The DS with the Federation of the Croats of Vojvodina. You made a coalition with Rasim Ljajic and participated in a pre-election rally in Subotica. If it wasn't for Ljajic and his sympathies, your rally would have failed. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: six came. One hundred came and the Ljajics came, it was good, it was a thousand for sure. What's going on? You had more coalition partners, you just fooled them. You had a coalition partner, the National Major of the Rebels. There is something else, but you made a deal with Mirko Bajic, i.e. The new democracy of Vojvodina, and now I don't see Mirko Bajic here in parliament, although you promised the Bunjevac National Council. I may be able to justify you, but how. You said you couldn't have a circuit MP in the Republic Parliament. He could have resigned. We had an example. No, you went with the intention of tricking the Bunjevci, you shouldn't have let the Croats, but you tricked the Bunjevci. How did you fool them? You knew back then that the province MP couldn't be in the Republic Parliament and the province, so you didn't warn the Bunjevci in time and tell them to give another candidate. You could have done that. It's not true you couldn't. I can't even agree with you on one thing. When you made that coalition, you were at a press conference, and I can quote you, you said you reconciled the Bunjevci and the Croats, that it was the same people. It's not like that, Mr. Dulic, the Mutineers and the Croats are not the same people. You are a member of the rebel people and of the Serb people, you are not Croatian people and cannot be the same. If that were the same, we'd be having a different discussion today. Mr. Dulic, you're not going to say that the rebels are the same as the Croats. The rebels in their history have nothing bad, they haven't done anything wrong, you can't say that for the Croats. The same Bajic, who you cheated on, was an opponent to Mr Kuntic in the province's elections and were majority. He beat Kuntic. Since he with more votes he has brought you could not enter parliament, and Kuntic has entered. Other games are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1492	Mr. Vukic, have Mr. Firen Mihajlovic prepare himself, as the last debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would have to point out to the citizens of Serbia for a few illogical reasons, and perhaps it's quite logical things for the citizens of Serbia, or perhaps they've already learned, become used to them, and a little bit Googled. Namely, at a time when Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly of Serbia, MPs of the self-proclaimed democratic bloc were campaigning against Tomislav Nikolic to come up with all kinds of nonsense, trying to keep the people in the Assembly and the public until five in the morning, with the most terrible threats, blackmails, pressures and that I do not know what happens to Serbia if Tomislav Nikolic is elected. I'd like to ask Mr. Meha Omerovic, if he can, for a moment. I know it's not Mr. Ljajic's rally to be very careful there, but it's the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you just showed how much you love functions, how much you want power and chairs at all costs, and how hard, non-sports and non-gentlemenic you accept that someone else gets the same function. We are today, and I'm going to look back a little bit on what the rapporteur, the proposing representative, and I'm going to run for National Assembly President myself. Here it is said, as the first goal, that there will be a connection to the world. There has been interparliamentary co-operation since the Serbian parliament exists. The work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is known. I must warn you that it is not your job to connect with the world, nor with anyone else, except the usual course of conversation between different parliamentary groups, different parliaments. But the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, does not lead the foreign policy of this country, should have been read to you, both to you and to Mrs. Kolundji, and to know that it is the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and as an additional part of the representation of the Republic of Serbia, there is also an obligation for the president of Serbia, regardless of what I think it does in the worst possible way. We have heard further that the special quality of the future president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is coming from Subotica because of the richness of the difference between the large number of people and national minorities in Subotica. Does this mean that no one else can be from Uzic, Chačka, Kragujevci or any other place? Or can it never be? When you chose, too, the candidate you from the Uzic DS, there was a woman, I guess she wasn't tolerated. You knew in advance that it was not for tolerance and that it was no difference for wealth. We saw it a little later, though. Then they chose these from Belgrade, so we also established the same thing. What's the problem? Does that have anything to do with what a man is and where he comes from, so as a wealth of differences, tolerance. I'm the most tolerated. My father is from where Croats, Muslims and Serbs live. It's proof that I'm absolutely the most tolerated. What difference does it make? We've been listening to every one of us here. As we hear for days about how we need new relations in Serbia. Since I listened carefully to what Mr. Dulic said, I wrote the next sentence - we need 'installing new people'. Exactly against that installation is the SRS, Mr. Dulic, we don't want anyone installing our people. We want Serbian citizens to choose these people. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. We don't want anyone to set us up and force people on us. I know Mr. Shami doesn't care. He was pleased to vote for Tomislav Nikolic the other day. Today he said he'd be happy to vote for you. Tomorrow he will be pleased to vote for any third, only that his party has the satisfaction of power. And that's what we're different about, Mr. Dulic, because we don't have the pleasure, but we have an idea, a programme and a plan to get Serbia out of a difficult crisis. I quote your statement, Mr. Shami, delivered by Beta today at 16.43. You say you want to change the relationship between political parties. I wish, Mr. Dulic, that on your case you showed us that at the moment that Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly, and he was very patient, listening to all sorts of things about Serbia, listening to impossible stories about Serbia, listening to false stories, listening to the worst lies about himself. Mr. Dulic, then you did not wait for Tomislav Nikolic to be elected, so that you could approach him and congratulate him, but you fled the gym because he told you that Dusan Petrovic, which is someone else. You escaped from the hall, did not congratulate Tomislav Nikolic on the democratic procedure and on the democratic election of the National Assembly president. Does this talk about what kind of relationship you have between parties you want? I think that's a very bad example. That certainly can't be a good example. We don't want that kind of relationship. After all you've done in the last seven years not personally, but what DSS and other parties have done to a false democratic bloc against those citizens and against those parties that don't think like them, I have to tell you one thing, that we're showing an amazingly high degree of tolerance. You don't see the hate in us. You see no threat to us, no lustration, no lynching, no burning of the Assembly. You say the ancestors left us the House of the National Assembly. Isn't that right, Mr. Dulic? They were ancestors, even the Hitlers didn't want to tear it down, and they made plans to get them out of the German military command and the Gestapo, which the buildings shouldn't collapse. Until yours came, until you came to power, when you decided to rob, burn, and there are still 78 art paintings missing in the House of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building from your thieving and your robbery. Everything that the people and our ancestors have done for us, everything that Hitler didn't even bring down for us, you tried to bring it all down, someone else to put it on your back and say, so you did it, it's your fault. As today, I must declare important news to the MPs, since I know they spend all day in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I've been watching some agencies on my break, what's the news? Today, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, for your information, announced to the public that the most important, first and most important test for Serbia is to arrest those who have glued some posters on Ratko Mladic or Bulevar Ratko Mladic. Are you people normal? I really need to ask you, are you crazy? It's your first and most important task. It is not your most important task and the first test of how you will preserve KIM, how Serbian citizens will live better and how their pensions will be bigger, but how you will arrest someone who thinks differently. Set up Milan Markovic as minister, Bulevar Zoran Djindjic says immediately. Will you tomorrow when the authorities change the streets of Terrazi, so I don't know if it's from the boulevards of Slobodan Milosevic, so I don't know who else. You want to look forward to it? I ask you, who are you to judge history, who are you to judge everyone? I see something you're tearing up, you're putting up posters and I don't know what. We don't know who put some posters together, but let me tell you something, if I'd glued them, you'd never have freaked them out. You'd never freak them out, I guarantee you that. You'd have to show your courage elsewhere, and enough of your courage in harassing, shagging and persecuting political opponents. Show some courage to do something for the country except rob it, kidnap it and steal it. Your deputy prime minister has 11m euros, not that poor woman who puts a poster on Bulevar Ratko Mladic. That's what they're different about. Because that martyr who glued, he glued himself because he thinks, rightly or not, that he's a Serbian hero and that he defended the Serbian people, and you rob, steal, and do nothing else. These are your democratic fluids. We have a vice president of the government. He says, I'm not going to tell you, I don't exactly have 11m euros, but there's somewhere, there's a lot of money, but I've earned it before. In his interview in 2003, the man said he had none of his property to Serbia, to live in his aunt's rented apartment, and to sleep on his aunt's couch, and to get 11m euros out of his aunt's couch, people, is not a dinar, but a euro. The first task is how to arrest children or old people or anyone who has glued posters - Bulevar Ratko Mladic. What, should be Zoran Djindjic's boulevard, is it because he planted peanuts for the workers, is it because he said that no one would regret Vojislav Seselj if he was killed by the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. Or because of what he said - to whom the morale should go to church. By those three statements, I recognize him, by neither. You don't let anyone disagree with you on that, because no one can agree with you. He must be condemned as, like, retrograde, conservative, power of the past, and I don't know what kind. Who are you to be historians? It wasn't us. We don't give it to ourselves. We were not in favour of giving the street of Slobodan Milosevic, until an appropriate period of history passed, so the people will judge it. Now I'm telling you, I'm sure that historians and people will judge Milosevic more favourably than Djindjic. We'll wait for time to pass, not us politicians to edit it now, just like you guys are doing today. After all, you saw what Boris Tadic said about Zoran Djindjic, that he robbed DS, the DS budget, and Micunovic signed it. Now how can you convince us that these are the greatest democratic assets and the greatest democratic traditions? I've got a list here. I'll read it another time. I haven't had one before, a list of part-time associates from different foreign agencies and intelligence agencies, and others. How much money did they get in the period from 1. 1. 1997 to 12. Six. In 2000. Here to see one of those independent journalists from the Kings, the one who climbed to the top of our heads with his honesty, only 14,700 marks, nothing, not much, tiny one, while the people had 100 marks of pay, and he had 14,700. There were some with 66,000 marks. I see some with B92, I recognize 22,000, 3,000, 14,000, etc. It'll be a treat. The villa was given to Ruzica Djindjic, when you ask me, completely against the law and against the law. I hear someone from the DS is asking about the villa. I hear they gave her about three million euros in the value of Serbian citizens, right here in Dedinj. I hear it's, and it's without any legal basis, but don't worry, we're not vindictive, we'll even maintain a confession in such a way, so don't worry. So it's only important to spend 10 years, or 20 years, or 10 years. I'm sorry, Mr. Ristic's account. He can be in the villa for 10 years, and there's no problem. She'll be left with that villa. We won't do anything after that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard today an old phrase from DS representatives, which is to make parliament effective. By the way, that's Adolf Hitler's quote. Hitler, when he didn't know what to say, always talked about an effective parliament, so it was whatever the parliament wanted us to do. Parliament is a representation of the people, sitting in it by the people's representatives. He'll never be ideal, elitist, like this or like that. The government should be and must be effective, and parliament must work on the laws, as the proposings deliver them as it is in the interests of the people and nothing more. Do you think that the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to renegotiate the rights of MPs and opposition MPs. We need a new Rules of Procedure. What do you need to do, cut back on the debate? That it doesn't matter if someone has 80 or 10 MPs. That it is enough to speak only to the heads of the parliamentary groups and no one else, to reintroduce warnings, penalties, because no one is allowed to speak of his Majesty, Boris Tadic, to say anything? No one can read what he said about Zoran Djindjic in 93. Is that it? Or is it because you want to raise us and tell us that we have to act, and you showed us how you acted when you chose Tomislav Nikolic. In the end, I end up and apologize for taking so long, you see, Tomislav Nikolic, in the five days you talk about, showed how big and how democratic it is. That's when Serbia was looking forward to it. Today, no one, Mr. Dulic, but you and your loved ones, is looking forward to it in Serbia. I don't regret it, and I don't envy you at all, and I don't wish you anything bad, especially personally. That's what I'm saying because Serbia is sick of both DS and DSS, and their lies, and their fraud, and their false pleasure. Serbia wants change. Serbia wants Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1494	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Mihajlovic, as the last debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1495	I'll use these three minutes, thank you. I have to tell you that I am terribly concerned after nothing caused Mr. Dulic's exposé, in which he is islanded on two very important things -- democracy and information. If his notion of democracy is also the notion of democracy by the DS, which it belongs to, then we have a big problem. If his concept of information, the idea of informing the entire DS, then we have an even bigger problem. Mr. Maltene called us incomprehensible, immature and crushed by one nasty structure that sounds, please, you're hurting me a hundred third members of the Rules of Procedure - by throwing me out. (President: Please be patient, at least these last five minutes.) Don't let me interrupt the session right now. I'm sorry, I'm giving you your time back. Here you go. ) The boy tried to be sophisticated, but he was only able to offend the Serbian people when he said that democracy is in the environment at a significantly higher level than with us, and that the quantity of bad relations is incomparably lower in those same countries in the environment. He forgot that this is the Serbian people, who have the longest tradition of democracy in the entire environment, even wider. No former republic of the former Yugoslavia has anything to boast of. The Serbs have been fighting for democracy since the days of the princes, kings, through the times of the bronze dictators, to this day. This democracy is fragile, it hasn't walked yet, and we really don't need these kind of views that have brought us back many decades. As for the information he mentioned, I hope it was just a phrase in his speech, that he didn't seriously mean that he was dealing with direct transfers of congregation meetings. These congregation meetings are actually the best reports. It is the people who will judge whether Serbian radicals speak right or wrong. It will also judge the DS. If you're referring to short-term reporting, U92 television or any of your other nearby television, that's where we can't agree, because on the night, more specifically about the night, where you and the DSS heard more in those short-term reports, we've heard more about the poison arrows addressed to Tomislav Nikolic, although that was not the point that night when he was elected president. The point was to account for your Democrats, DSS and DS. So that's the information I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of one more thing, what you said was that you welcome the contribution of NGOs. Of course, I suppose by one you mean your teacher Sonja Licht, so you might go to her for some grades, criticism, instructions, but believe it's really contrary to the essence of parliamentaryism. A serious parliament cannot assess an NGO. The only NGO that could participate as much in this parliament's work as possible is a priest, if we agree on that, because the SPC is also an NGO. He could bless and kill this home, in which he got involved. Anyway, seeing as you're anxious to do what you've already done, I'll be brief. I'm going to ask Mr. Dulic to fence himself just as nicely, just as he did before, when he was fenced by those invitations, putting his hand on his heart and claiming that they had nothing to do with him, that he would be fenced from his participation in the 5th October revolution. Because really, it wouldn't be appropriate for one president of parliament, and you'll probably become one in a few minutes, if it were also part of the mob that burned down that same building, the building where you promise to enter us in September of this year. At the very end, I want to speak to Mrs. Comic, who said to think twice about the candidate, Mr. Oliver Dulic, because we don't have one in our radical ranks. You're really right, we don't have something like that in our party, we don't have such specimens in our party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1496	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. According to Article 10(5), Rules of Procedure, I am setting out a list of candidates for the National Assembly President, where only one candidate is, and that is Mr. Dulic Oliver. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and since it is in agreement with Article 10(5) of the Convention, Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 11. Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of MPs. I suggest that the election of the National Assembly president be made by a public vote, by a noun. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1497	Mr. Grouchy, that's not why I left you here, that's where I left you to take care of... (President: I wanted to thank you a little later... You know, this is no longer a constitutive session, this is a perfectly normal session. The abnormal state is that we chose the government, but we didn't elect the president of the assembly, but that's not really foreseen, so you can't put the election of the president of the assembly on the table right now before you say when it's going to be voting day. We're in a perfectly normal session right now. You can't separate the dots. I'm really ready for Mr. Dulic to be elected, and now I'm saying, tomorrow, an hour after the session, that choice will be over. But don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. It is impossible to vote now for the election of the president of the assembly, there must be a debate on vice-presidents and board members, you schedule a voting day, it can be five minutes after the session is over and then votes on all points of the agenda that we have crossed. Now, at this time, with my good will that these invitations that we are getting apply as soon as possible, it is impossible for you to approach the vote, and that should be told by the secretary or deputy secretary, as Mr. Danilovic is already called, but judging by how the services are zealously racing to get everything done as they wish, I see that they are ready to deceive you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. So I advise you, this friendly, you've been a better friend to Slobodan Milosevic than I have, but please be friendly, don't fall for it, don't organise this vote, don't step on the Rules of Procedure, they can't wait to take you out of there, so it'll be a shame to sit next to them again. Use this time to show how much democracy and respect for all the regulations that parliament is working on. You schedule a session tomorrow at 10.00, with the rest of the agenda, then schedule a voting day, we approach the vote. We no longer have anything to discuss tomorrow, we will not discuss about vice presidents, we will not discuss board members, unlike you, we will attend and when Mr. Dulic is elected and when he takes over the session of the National Assembly, but all in his time, in accordance with such a crock of the Rules of Procedure, but at least respect him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-22-0.u1498	I'm taking a five-minute break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come here to the stage. [[After break – 19.20.]] Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize for this oversight. This morning I realized that a deal had been reached by the heads of parliament, obviously not. The search of this agenda point is over. The session continues tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. I'm calling all the heads of Parliament tomorrow at 9:00 in the first floor room.
