ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5322	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the real question is whether by signing on the CEFTA agreement we protect Serbia's interests or by protecting the interests of the signatories of this agreement. I will try, for the sake of time, to say what it is against, and to explain what it was for, what fellow MPs said yesterday. First, some CEFTE signatories, such as Croatia, insist on the principle of the invariability of already established trade arrangements, all under the heading of the protocol and agreements that exist in the world trade organisation, and in part in the CEFTA agreement. At the same time, we're not talking about the closure of this market. When I say who it was, it concerns Croatia, therefore, it is not about the closure of the market, and at the same time it is imputed to Serbia in which it allows foreign investment on its part. What I'm saying is that countries that are signatories to the CEFTA agreement are declared foreign investment, and in reality something else is quite different. At the same time, the interests of these countries, once again apostrophe of Croatia, shifts from the field of trade to the field of investment, probably driven by the idea and knowledge that Serbia has privileged trade status with Russia. Secondly, all Serbian governments have worked with more or less success in favour of Serbian damage since 5 October, so it continues. And this time. What am I saying this for? It is obvious that one or two of the very important segments of our economy, for example, food production or tobacco, will have to reduce its production in the next period. Less participation in public revenues will have to be done by Serbian society and the economy to amortise and replace. The issue is the right to replace the loss of these large investors, they invested around 450m euros in the tobacco industry. You know how it used to be. Those dealings are now in the hands of the ruling structure. The privileged status without competition and trade in the Serbian market will now be broken against the head. I would like to ask the president of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, here on 20 April this year told "Evening News" that all legislation will be harmonised that Serbia enters the CEFTE signing agreement. I ask, are all laws harmonised, are some laws put out of force, are there any laws still in place? I say this because a series of laws concerning the protection of production in Serbia have been adopted, the protection of producers. Third, no less important, most importantly, I would like to say that one of the signatories and UNMIK is in Kosovo, with a clear wish to present Kosovo as a state, as a full-fledged co-worker and signator of these documents, the CEFTA Agreement. The application of the CEFTA Agreement can be expected, as there will be no customs and border barriers, for goods with the inscription "Made in Kosovo" to appear in Serbia. Yesterday, Mr. Matic here said it wasn't a great danger. I will remind you of exactly what those who represent Kosovo say. If I speak well, Agim Shahini and Minister Bujar Dobuli said very clearly, I quote: "Kosovo products will have their own bar code as well as other countries. We will do everything to be equal in free trade with CEFTA countries, so there is no room for concern." There are gentlemen! There are a lot of concerns in this way, as this is not just the stance of Kosovo officials. Andrea Switkovski of the fourth pillar of UNMIK also expects great success for Kosovo, apostrophe that this is a principle on which the EU also works. This was against, and I want to briefly, for the sake of time, to say what it is for. Yesterday we heard from the Proposer of the Agreement, or the Law, that there is a need to protect the domestic industry. It's interesting, it's the minister, if I'm not mistaken, the economist and should be managing the costs, not managing this country's patriotic feelings. Also, it was apostrophe here yesterday to be a quality arbitration. As I take that word in my mouth, we need to know that the ruling structure has been unable to set up a Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court judges, for a long time, how we will protect our producers in these markets, how we will protect some intellectual property or copyright that exists. I say this because yesterday, very clearly, Mrs Tabakovic said that similar economies are precisely all the countries that sign the CEFTA Agreement. As for the transparency of the procedure, which was one argument for, well, gentlemen, I assume you're witnessing that no larger business in Serbia is finished, if anywhere else, that bar in court. So, when we wrap everything up, we're approaching global economic flows, and something seems to me that's never been further. For this reason, I would just like to say in the end that even though the formal signature of this assembly on this agreement will have much more damage than benefits for Serbia's economy and for Serbia's society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5323	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic appeared, then the MP of the people Vasiljevic, then Rajko Baralić, and then the MP of the people Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5324	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I am now fully aware of why the ruling coalition wants to lift TV transmission from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because what they are saying and what the media are saying will be one truth in this Serbia, that is definitely. Because people's MPs should be prevented from saying what they think, and Serbia's public should hear it. People's MPs have their own mini constitution, it's called Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure should be respected. When the MP reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he should get his word. A good atmosphere in the congregation cannot be done by ignoring the violations of the Rules of Procedure or by disrespecting the MPs. Yesterday I asked Mr. Dulic why he didn't call the election for the council of the Smederevo Municipality. I'm asking Mr. Dulic today why he didn't call the election for council members of the City Hall. A municipal assembly was disbanded in Velika Gradište on 25 May this year, nearly four months ago. Contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that the interim council must take care of party and national composition, the government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a body that does not respect it. Not that all parties represented in the local assembly are represented, not that they are not represented, but that members of the business body are representatives of the G17 parliamentary group, which did not pass the censorship in the local elections. This illegality lasts. The Council replaces all people at the level of local self-government. Of course, thanks to the party's division within the government, they appointed one of the ruling coalition's members, others, Socialists, radicals, there are no seats, although they are represented in parliament. It has been more than three months, Mr. Dulic does not fulfil his obligations under the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. In Article 113. The law on local self-government explicitly states that the president of the National Assembly is calling the committee elections within three months of the day of the disbanding of the local self-government unit. Three months have passed, Mr. Dulic doesn't call the election. I, as an MP who asked a question yesterday and yesterday, did not get an answer from Mr. Dulic. Yesterday we heard publicly that I was going to get an answer, and that answer is not available for now. I will continue this story of illegality in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5325	Thank you. Since you asked for the Smederevo municipality, I must inform you that Smederevo municipality has not sent a request to the National Assembly, nor the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and that has been verified. Currently in the Assembly are the requirements of Smederevska Palanka and Velika Gradište municipalities to call elections for the assembly of these municipalities. I have to read to you the answer I sent to the president of the municipality, you will, of course, continue to report to the Rules of Procedure, therefore, to the President of the Municipality of Mr. Radoslav Cokic on the request he sent: "I hereby declare that the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the entry into force of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that certain deadlines for holding elections for the bodies of all units of local self-government are subject to the power of new laws, which determines the system of local self-government and territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3(4) The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that elections for committees in all local self-government units will be announced by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 40 days of the date of entry into force of the last law governing the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, local elections and the position of the capital. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia constitutes an act of more legal force than the current Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections, and, in a specific case, the Constitutional Law is the basis for calling elections for committees in all local self-government units. Accordingly, the election for the Smederjevska Palanka Assembly committees will be called in accordance with Article 3(4). Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last law governing the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, local elections and the position of the capital. '"That's the answer given to the presidents of Smederevska Palanka Municipality and the Great City. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs Vassiljevic, then Rajko Baralic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered three months ago and asked a parliamentary question about outstanding war veterans' diaries from Kosovo. . In view of this, although I did not get a written answer to that question, the Ministry of Defence has indeed taken action and opportunity to pay off these diaries. But today I came forward for another reason, because the activity that the Veterans Movement and the Socialist Party of Serbia have launched from this pay phone has been abused today for political purposes and the mutilation of local party leaders. Yesterday, a meeting was held in Kursumlia, which was scheduled, you see miracles, the president of the Municipal Court, with elected organisations and elected representatives, and were at a meeting of the defence minister's assistant, a military lawyer and a man in charge of finance within the defence ministry. We are satisfied with the current activities of the Ministry of Defence and we think that this problem will be solved when the corrections of irregularities made, above all, in making lists of participants in the 1999 war in Kosovo, when it is determined which of these people received the daily and who did not. However, today at 11.00 am, a lockup of loops is scheduled in Kursumlia, which aims at a political reckoning of local leaders, not the exercise of the rights of these people, which is cited as the reason for the protest. We want to say that the movement of veterans and people who have raised this issue really has nothing to do with roadblocks, and we think that this correct agreement and the correct activities that we have to address this issue should not be escalated and used for political purposes. Otherwise, I would like to point out once again that the President of the Municipal Court, Mr. Radisa Jovovic, really abuses the accident of these people and abuses the problem to take advantage of representatives and the Ministry and veterans in their petty political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5327	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic and then MP Petronijevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministers, I have reported in accordance with Article 225(1). Mr. President, don't be angry, do your job, I'm doing my job, we don't have the same employer, Mr. President, and each of us is talking to someone else entirely. Yesterday I pointed out, according to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, what Bucharest looks like for the first class in this country, where the picture of Vuk Karadzic is and how the concept of the state is explained with the symbols of the Vatican. So, respected colleagues and colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia suggested it wasn't a textbook published by the Serbian Bookshop and that Mr. Ljusic would never let it go. Now I'm going to read you what Mr. Ljusic released in the historical reader – workbook, for the fifth grade of elementary school. Among other things, this book has puzzles whose processor is a certain Mr. Lazarevic. A cross on page 100, horizontal, kind of a hot alcohol drink. On page 30, horizontally, under number 11, "trapped by alcoholic beverages or other intoxicating agents". This is what you gentlemen are doing to the children for the fifth grade of elementary school, which violates the three laws, based on which what I read here cannot be found. Mr. Ljusic should resign or be removed, and the textbooks should be held for children of their age, their needs, and that the school has that function that gives Serbian citizens the means to pay for education, to print textbooks and to train children to live. I'm surprised that he didn't analytically dismember the different kinds of Olympics in this puzzle, so that the children would be fully educated, that I wouldn't elaborate any further. So, I ask Mr. President of the Education Committee, who is not present here today, to schedule a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly, to discuss the historical reading, the work book, for the fifth grade of primary school and to invite Mr. Ljusic to explain to us what this reader has to do and what its purpose is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5329	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Misa Petronijevic and then MP Rajko Đurić, then Tomislav Nikolic, and Zarko Obradovic appeared. Let's take it in a row and respect the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my manners are not to interrupt the debate on the agenda, but this happened because the president of the Assembly didn't notice at the beginning of the session that I was advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is another maneuver that only creates bad relationships in this congregation, not contributes to the successful work of the congregation. All questions and injuries can be completed within 15-20 minutes and the Assembly will normally work. This is what it looks like, when you ask the question of injury to the Rules of Procedure like it's an excess. I want to, using Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, to ask the President of the National Assembly for an explanation. Mr. President, in your statement for TANJUG, you said: "The president of the Serbian Parliament Oliver Dulic said today that the new Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, whose text has been fully agreed between the parliamentary groups that participated in its creation, will be in front of MPs as soon as possible. It remains only to carry out consultations with the SRS, which did not participate in the writing of the Rules of Procedure and will try to find a compromise, so that the Rules of Procedure will be agreed to the maximum extent possible between all parliamentary groups. ''As what you have stated is not true, it seems fluently said, but it is not true, I ask you to explain what is the reason for you to make such a statement, given that I spent the whole summer in front of my parliamentary group, believing that we should all participate in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure. Because the adoption of Rules of Procedure is not the same as the adoption of laws. The laws are passed by the will of the majority, and the Rules of Procedure must, having in mind that they regulate relations in the congregation, be in harmony among all. Since I took part in this work, I have agreed in many things, and I am not in the key. We agreed on all those things that talk about harmonising with the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly, which should be brought before the Rules of Procedure, and all those questions that you saw there in a restrictive sense for MPs, when they took part in the work of the Assembly, we refused to accept it. I ask you to answer, is this your participation in a campaign led by certain ministers against the National Assembly, misleading the public that the Rules of Procedure are a distraction for the adoption of thousands of laws, and that, in doing so, none of them have let the procedure go. Instead of putting laws in the process, first of all those who will talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law, they are talking, and you are joining it, it is your obligation to reform the Assembly, as you are constantly announcing, lead it in the direction of independence, representative and control, not subject to such a campaign as is being led by one of your ministers. I ask the President of the Assembly to answer - where does this information come from that it is in harmony with all the parliamentary groups when it is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5331	Thank you for correcting me. I am pleased that you have reached agreement on the largest number of points defined by the Rules of Procedure and I hope that we will be able to reach agreement with all parliamentary groups on the necessity of adopting a new Rules of Procedure. Of course, I don't want to argue with TANJUGO or with news reports published in the media. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Đuric, then Tomislav Nikolic, then Zarko Obradovic, then Vladan Batic, then Riza Halimi, then Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5332	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of Article 226, and I would like first of all to ask the President, Mr. Dulic, to make an effort to defend the dignity of this House, above all from our ministers. In order not to have any flat-rates, I will present my own experiences. There are ministers I spoke to a month ago begging for their reception because it is an extremely important and burning problem concerning Roma, but not only Roma, because lately I have had the opportunity to talk to citizens of Serbian nationality, including Serbs from Kosovo. I received a reply from the secretaries of individual ministers that I must first address the ministers in writing and state in the letter the topics we will discuss. No comment, as the English would say. I had the opportunity, staying in Germany to speak to Chancellor Shredder, who took me in as a stranger within one day, the president of the Austrian government within an hour, President of Finland within 15 minutes. I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, if the MPs, I repeat, the MPs, do not have the opportunity to be admitted to the ministers, then what about the citizens of this country and what kind of state we have. In order not to be casual in the assessment, I must say, of course, there are very honorable men, ministers, and these are unfortunately our exceptions. I mean, it's about my personal experience, Mr. Alexander Popovic, who was always ready to talk to me, Mr. Naumov or Mr. Minister of Environment, whom I've never had a chance to meet before. I thank them from this place most warmly, and Mr. President, I ask you to do the legitimacy, the dignity of this House, most seriously warn Mr. Ministers that they are responsible and sensible, as someone once said, in front of this Parliament. Otherwise, I will suggest that the most urgent form of shadow government is formed, but couples to every minister in the current government, that in the end, at least formally speaking, we will deal with those who have so far shown their work not to deserve to be ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5333	Mr. Turkey, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5334	The press kept announcing that MPs had huge salaries. I tell the public that my salary is 81,390 dinars. If I'd stayed in Tanjug as an editor, I'd have a lower salary of only six grand. Please, that's what the media says, where editors and directors have, not annually, 11600 euros a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5335	Mr. Gjuric, your time is up, you'll have to report back to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not report to the Rules of Procedure, however, the President of the Assembly has indeed compromised the dignity of the National Assembly by reading to us the answer that he sent to the presidents of individual municipalities in Serbia and thus expressed his sarcasm and his relationship with the National Assembly, the Constitution of Serbia, the Constitutional Law. Mr. President, you can't appeal to the Constitutional Law when it suits you and that when you don't get some elections, you say that the Constitutional Law provides for general elections in local self-government, so it will wait for local self-government, even if there's some chaos to be found and at least what law they're currently acting under, that at the same time you forget that this Constitutional Law, by your guilt, because you're putting the agenda together, is not respected at all, it doesn't exist, but it's a dead letter on paper. The constitutional law implementing the Serbian Constitution is a dead letter on paper, Mr. President. We have fulfilled all the obligations set out in the first session after the establishment of the National Assembly, without talking about the obligations of the Second Session, not to mention that this agenda should not exist until we have completed the agenda under the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, when you speak to anyone in public, Mr. President, you can say that there are general elections for local self-government, 31.12, but it's my fault that the Constitutional Court isn't established, it's my fault that there's no constitutional court law, no constitutional court procedure, it's my fault that there's not the most judicial authority in the country. It's all your fault. It's my fault there's no law on the National Bank, there's no governor of the National Bank. It's the president of the National Assembly's fault. At the same time, you are in your party's campaign to call some elections in Serbia, although you know very well there are constitutional obligations, because the constitution says 31.12 elections should be called, but before that, it says, laws must be passed, all four are numbered, you know them: the law on the president, the law on defence, the law on the military and the law on foreign affairs. On the one hand, you have a campaign for presidential elections where you think Serbia will continue to get lucky under some Boris, as Russia has failed, and it only split when Boris changed, and on the other hand you want normal sessions of the National Assembly. Every day you're in all the media campaigns, and here you'd like to work on the agenda that you imagined. It's okay, if that agenda fits the Constitution and constitutional law, let's work on that agenda. You will not hear any remarks against the Rules of Procedure from the MPs of the SRS, nor will they ask for a word to warn you that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. This National Assembly lost its dignity when it did not meet the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its new, current, present, state-of-the-art assembly. What's stronger then, why is the agenda of the National Assembly called here? At the request of the Government and at the request of the President of the Republic, so when they press you to no longer be able to endure, you put in us some point from the Constitutional Law, and seven-eight points that correspond to the ministers, which correspond to our path to the EU, and that time, you saw, as you saw last night, at the game against Portugal, is one that holds you, and the other one is beating you, that's the EU. So, Mr. President, don't make any statements in the media that, later on in front of us MPs, you're almost denying the statement that you're not going to deal with the way you're being transferred to the media. You can't say that 20 days after the announcement was made, it wasn't right how they announced it. Get out of here right now and tell me it wasn't right. But according to one here, the Democratic Party session, attended by your ministers, where the Assembly was warned that it could have a heart attack, and one of the biggest criminals threatened, and the second largest one coming out of the hall, Bozidar Djelic, threatened the Assembly to have a heart attack from the Democratic Party, to justify it, may have thought we would do a lot, since two months we haven't been in these benches. So, the Democratic Party's obvious offensive to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, you have taken over the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into your own hands and that your choice as president is in fact the choice of a man who will decide how much dignity the National Assembly can lose without being seen in the media quite clearly. Since you came to power, it doesn't matter how a man works anymore, but how it's presented to the media. All your struggle is that all your actions in the media are presented well. As a result, the state television daily has been edited by the Democratic Party team for odd days and by the Democratic Party of Serbia's steam days. It's quite clear and quite obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5337	Mr. Nikolic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5338	I'm sorry, I didn't bother you yesterday and the day before yesterday, I had nice family obligations, which is what I want for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5339	I congratulate you on your duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5340	I want you, too, Mr. Doolic, so I'm going to get out of the way now, I just want to warn you, anything you do can come back to you one day. In that place, consider that each of us has the right to criticise your actions, has the right to ask you that the Assembly no longer personal to the slave of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially not to the slave of the Government who is currently going in several tracks and who is intensively preparing for the elections. So, Mr. President, ask that we pass the laws under the Constitutional Law, that this Assembly tend, that we go to the campaign, that no one uses the National Assembly for the campaign around our elections, that we finish the elections, that finally normal people here represent the majority, that they form the National Assembly, that they remove the National Assembly from the shade made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the National Assembly helps the Government, but that the Government cannot command the National Assembly. Under your leadership, it's absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5341	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I've already answered these questions in the last few days. I said that we expect that there will be a constitutional court law at the next session, and a constitutional court act, and we will choose the judges of the Constitutional Court and we will choose the governor, so that we will fulfil our obligations under this law within the time limit that is possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5342	Thank you, Mr. Dulic. I'd just like to get an explanation from you. I think it's absolutely against the respect of the MPs, of course, and me personally, because I asked you a question yesterday, and yesterday I got a promise to get an answer, and you're telling me today, both to me and to the public of Serbia, that you sent two letters to the presidents of the municipalities, that you sent letters to the presidents of the municipalities and you are calling for a provision of constitutional law that you do not respect yourself. If you were to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, then you would follow it, and then the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be completely different than it is, then, under the provisions of the Law, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would debate and adopt or not bring appropriate laws. Mr. Dulic, do you consider the answers to the presidents of the municipalities as a way to respond to the MP or are you going to do so in some other way? I think this is incorrect. If you had those letters, you could read it yesterday and the day before, so that the Serbian public heard that you absolutely support unconstitutional solutions, because the Constitution, if you are already calling for legal acts, then you can say that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribe that the composition of the provisional authorities must respect party and nationality. Yesterday and today, I gave you examples of a lack of respect for party relations in local self-government, I said it was an absolute illegality, and if you tell me today that you accept it and that you won't react to it, then O.K. Well, that is the answer both for me and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that everything in this country is allowed, that is, to the parties of the ruling coalition and that party interests are above the law of the state of the Republic of Serbia. And that's the answer, but you need to make it public, in a way that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand. Please answer me whether as a People's MP, who asked you yesterday to explain why you do not respond, get an answer or consider this letter an answer, and I will see what I will do in relation to your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5343	Thank you. During today, you will receive a letter that will be sent to your name, with the explanation that I have told you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Riza Halimi appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an injury, Article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because, Mr. President, you have not given me an explanation on the many times-repeated issue, as regards the National Initiative for Amendments to the Radio-Difusion Act for the lifting of the television subscription. Yesterday, there was a lot of controversy over the interruption of television transmission of the National Assembly, and there were some misexposures. The transfers of the National Assembly's session are the flows of March 9th and the struggles of the then few democratic opposition against a non-democratic government. It is forgotten, and now those who introduced television broadcasts, which caused it to be organised on 9 March, turned out to be the biggest advocates of the struggle for television broadcasts. It's the truth that works. Moreover, the honourable MP Slobodan Gavrilovic was wrong, not in '94. years of shut down television transmissions rather than '95. A year. Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic is right to be in '95. The beatings of Zoran Simovic have entered this same hall, a locked hall with the aim of getting Tomislav Nikolic out of here, and it seems to me that the MP was called Dusica Nikolic and it is a non-democratic gesture. There were 30 of them in the revolvers' tracksuits, and there was chaos. The truth is, in an attempt to solidify and defend the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, there were Slobodan Gavrilovic and my little one. That's true. Television transmissions were then shut down. The opposition has left Parliament. In '97. The opposition did not participate in the elections, so television broadcasts were reintroduced, but what? Sessions that lasted one day, sessions of a single-party minority government, sessions where there was no debate, but there was a senseless pressure on the taster. Take the stenographic notes and you'll see that 10 points of the agenda were solved in one day, adopted by 10 laws, because it was such a one-party idyll. One more thing, what is now announced by the introduction of a new rules of procedure and this is as if training for the abolition of television transmissions is the return of Milosevic's system of values, because it is being reached by the current government and the current coalition. Political insolences are arrested, threatened, insulted, demeaned, discredited, disciplined, media disciplined, media controlled. RTS is a public service, but not a public media service, but something else public. He is an agitprop ruling coalition and is now being threatened, I repeat, by disciplining MPs and by abolishing television transmissions, and that is the twilight of democracy. Mr. President, please answer me when on the agenda of the National Assembly will find a national initiative that was submitted on 29 March of last year, so, a year and a half ago, and it concerns the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting in order to abolish a television subscription through a fee on a number. It's quite clear that the most fundamental conditional rights have been violated, so please give me an answer to this question because it will be updated very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5345	Thank you very much. I have seen about this initiative, it will, of course, be in the Assembly when we finish discussing all these important laws that are according to the Constitutional Law and the laws that define all that is necessary in order to call all the necessary choices, which we have just discussed. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi appeared, followed by Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5346	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Rajko Đuric said for a moment that he was waiting a month to come to a certain minister, I'm asking about two and a half months for a meeting with the minister of education, but I fail, it's simply unattainable. If I add that these days the government has reorganised the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and I have learned it from the means of information, then it is no wonder that there is no interest in ministers either because they are government. Unfortunately, that's the situation. What should be expected when the minority ministry was abolished in this assembly, a drastically reduced co-ordination fund for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. That's one normal trail of strategy for me, which this government has put before it. I'm more out here on the parliamentary issue I asked on July 5th. The answer was delivered here, I think, on Tuesday 9/11. Even this is quite a long time, to justify the manipulations I cited on July 5th, which were carried out in connection with the exploitation of the commercial content of the Presevo border crossing. At that time, I simply asked for explanations that it is possible that, after those 15-16 years, since that border crossing was opened, there are no Albanians in the state services or in all possible accompanying services, but that now that commercial content is to be used, there can be no expression of the people on the ground, but they are pre-qualified firms from other environments, Belgrade or other environments. Here it is trying to say that it is not a monopoly, but based on the demands of "Intermole", "Interspide", under some legal procedure of the ministry in the second degree, it is not the law that the competent authority in the municipality did so, but in the second degree, the ministry decided. He even says when it comes to paying compensation for refurbishment and compensation for setting up construction land, that a deposit has been made in court. So he's not in co-operation with local self-government. (President: Time. I think it's time for five minutes. (President: time is three minutes. Here you go, but you've already gone deep in the fourth minute. Finish it. All right. Now what? It was not in co-operation with local self-government, but an excuse for the second degree deciding, an alleged explanation that some of the unnamed representatives of the Presevo administration had made in the ministry, that the assembly was holding back some decision, which was the decision to set up a survey committee to investigate manipulation. Of course, instead of explaining the situation with local self-government managers, the ministry hastily imposed over, in all likelihood, corrupt workers in local self-government and in some part with certain parts of the ministry, overcame the assembly. Now I ask the question - if in the Balkan Brick case, when it was privatized, it was bought by an Albanian from Bujanovac, the Assembly of Vladic's Han rose, made all the noise, and the competent republican authority, after some time, annulled it, then why, gentlemen, is SO Presevo passing here, when it forms a polling committee? Why don't people come from the ministry to question it, but directly calling certain laws they do it very effectively, the works are done... Mr. Halimi, thank you very much. )......................................................................................................... and absolutely, in my opinion, there is open discrimination against local authorities in Presevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5347	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, then Zoran Krasic, then Milica Vojić-Marković, and I hope that we are done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5348	Thank you. I will really apologize for using the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, given the importance of the subject we are talking about today. But indeed, speaking of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which violates the dignity of the Assembly, but not only the Assembly, but also dignity, I would say, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly 52% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to one event today. I think I have the right to use my three minutes to speak for them. I think that you have all witnessed one text today and, unfortunately, photographs on the cover of one of our tabloids who published the text on the most brutal torture and abuse of a woman in a Serbian town and, unfortunately, her photograph was also published. It's about the most cruel kind of domestic violence in which a man, whose psychological profile I wouldn't want to talk about right now, makes his wife walk the streets of their city naked. So, I refer not only to Article 104, but I call, first of all, to the Constitution, to Article 19, Article 23, Article 25. The constitution, which speaks of the dignity of every citizen of Serbia as guaranteed. I'll read you, it's a quote, please take away my time. Article 23 says, "People's dignity is impeccable and everyone is obliged to respect and protect them. First of all, we are all here to respect and protect the dignity of all our citizens. Also, article 25 says: "Natural and psychological integrity is uninjurious. No one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment. ''Article 19 guarantees dignity to all citizens of Serbia. Once again, I would like to remind you that we have adopted Family Law in this congregation, which clearly speaks of how family violence is handled. I think it's quite clear that this is about the most cruel kind of domestic violence. I also remind myself that domestic violence is a crime, and in this sense I call on all the authorities in the city that are involved, but also in the whole Republic, to respond as an example to all other cases. Unfortunately, our role is, I'd remind you, and supervisory, and I'd like to say that all the data on the ground says that the Family Law is not being applied enough and that it doesn't give the desired results. That is why I call on the Centre for Social Work, I call on the Ministry of Social Affairs to conduct greater supervision, to enable full implementation of the Family Law. There is another dimension here that speaks of that, unfortunately, one tabloid very roughly violated the professional codes, but also the Information Act, and published a photograph of the woman in question. I think this is a harsh violation of her rights and it's a harsh violation of the right of all of us to be informed in one dignified way. Also, I call on the Ministry of Culture and Information, I don't want to be an advert to this tabloid, of course, to consistently apply the law and get in the way, now and in the future, of this kind of harsh violation of the law. I remind you of Article 41. The information law, which prohibits a negative impact on the moral and other development of minors, and the fact is that these are also cases. In the end, I call on both the press code and all the other professional codes, because if professional codes and personal values don't contribute to the development of this society, then no law that we bring here will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5349	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. I'm sorry, you've been talking for five minutes. Come in again. Here you go, Zoran Krasic, then Milica Vojić-Markovic, then you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5350	Mr. Dulic, look at what it says in article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you shall see what they have broken. Let me take my turn. Yesterday, a large number of MPs asked you for an explanation. You've wisely kept your mouth shut and thought about the complex question of how to make an explanation. Today you tried to give some explanation and you violated the Constitution and constitutional law. I'm just paying attention to you, when you read the Constitutional Law and in a member you see that it's divided into points of view, that you know that point 1 is priority over point 2. Mr. Albianic, as a mathematician, can tell you why number one has an advantage over number two. They split nicely, this one knows the texts, the one in the numbers. So, it's not your problem that, ever since you settled in that chair, you brutally violate the Constitutional Law, and you're more or less successfully calling for someone else to blame, because he's never done anything that would make you set up a session. That, in some ways, can only be an excuse in the part where MPs plead according to their tastes. But from the point of view of the Constitution and the law, there's no taste. To be more specific, he's pretty vomity after everything that's been going on with us. I must draw attention to the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law were passed on the basis of the consent of the parties that affected the adoption of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. All that is written there is the result of this agreement, regardless of what some have left in some part a bad impression of some solutions. But everyone's sticking to that deal. I know that you, as a purgatory, are in great conflict with democracy, because democracy is a distraction, it's an unnatural framework for revolutionaries. The revolutionaries don't tolerate the law, they don't tolerate regulations, they don't suffer moral norms, they don't tolerate customs, they don't suffer anything. Their interest and what they get from the boss's side, that's what's distracting them from action. Why don't you respect what the political parties have decided, what the citizens have confirmed with enthusiasm? You know, when they went to the referendum, they said -- thank God, they agreed somehow, they'll probably bloom, Serbia will go. Who authorized you to undo it? If you find an excuse not to fulfill your legal obligation because of the complexity that is not given as a criterion in the law, which is about choice, then I must tell you that you do not know what democracy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5351	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5352	What's the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5353	It's time to bring an end to your exposure to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5354	I'm going to bring an end to my presentation, but Mr. Dulic, sitting in a chair where the president of the National Assembly should sit, you must prove by your actions that you are the president of the National Assembly, not the figure of a supersonic plane. We ask you to obey the law. Now tell me what is primitive, simple, undemocratic in the request of all MP groups, except for those who 'cause' power, 'cause' they're the authorities. Your authority is your boss, not from political parties, but from them, it's the bosses.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5355	According to Business, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic and Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5356	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable fellow MPs, as well as Mrs. Plassic, I have come to be really appalled with what the media has been doing to all of us in this country for the last few months. Since she's already said a lot on this subject, I won't waste any time explaining who all the members are and what dignity all of us and these women have been hurt. I brought along just some of the media that came out today. Doesn't it seem to each of us that this act, so photos on the front pages, on the big middle pages, continues to abuse this woman? Doesn't it seem to us that our role, as well as the role of the media, is primarily to educate the public that abuse has no place in our society. If we want to do something for our country, if we want to do something for our children, we have to stop molesting anyone and stop putting ourselves aside from the abusers. That's why I'm protesting, and I'm asking that the People's Assembly in Voting Day declare whether it's hurt and her dignity by continuing to abuse this woman and similar abuse, when it comes to the abuse of that little man who was killed in the Banovci, you also had the opportunity to read what things were going on back then, and I don't think there's anyone who's normal, has children, or maybe even no children, who's read all that he hasn't really felt the ultimate horror. I don't want any part of it, and I want to say it in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5357	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5358	I just wanted to say one more sentence. I would like to remind you that this assembly is fortunate to have a Committee on Gender Equality, which I expect to meet urgently today and invite all colleagues, and of course colleagues who join this protest, to attend this meeting, so that we can all express the strongest protest against this phenomenon together. I hope that the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality is present and I am sorry that she did not react to such a phenomenon herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5359	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5360	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I join my fellow Members' initiative. This isn't the first time a thing like this has happened in a newspaper. Let's remember the summer of that terrible event in the zoo when Curr just published a picture of a boy who was mutilated in a cage. We need to take this seriously. However, these initiatives are completely pointless unless the names of those responsible for this are given, or unless the responsibility and punishment for those who have allowed it are asked for and who are persistently allowing it. I agree entirely with my colleagues that the pictures of these unfortunate people in the paper are a re-injuring of these people and all those to whom they mean something. What's happened now just confirms what kind of newspaper this "Kurr" is, which is what they serve and, of course, the "Pres". They serve to devastate and destroy all the valuable things that exist in this country. We're really insistent, and I'd like to hear from you male colleagues, who keep throwing you away, to support us in this. I'm really asking that those responsible be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5361	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't have called if it hadn't been for Mrs Stojanovic-Plasic's incorrect exposure. Fellow Members, you can see that Mrs Elena Christmas-Talian is not in the Assembly Hall and therefore, it is inappropriate to honor a woman who is president of a congregation committee, who does not enforce the laws, but is only considering them and the Assembly is declaring them, that she should do this or that. It was yours to act, like other colleagues, but it's really amazing. You are also insulting my dignity, my colleagues Radeta and colleagues Vukicevic and other colleagues from the SRS because you are giving yourself the right to take over as protectors of women in Serbia, and this is not done by the National Assembly at the moment. Yours is to make your point and state your position, but don't ask the Assembly board to consider issues that are not in its jurisdiction. Therefore, unlike you from G17 plus other parties, we know very well when we are voting against some laws, and we are the opposition, that they have been voted by a congregation majority. I should not warn you that Mr Nikolic spoke of similar things ten years ago, it is about photos of an 80-year-old woman and it is nothing new, but do not ask that the Assembly Committee, and that you are requesting this from a colleague of Christmas-Talijan, solves the case that should be in the jurisdiction of the law enforcement body, the Public Information Act, the Criminal Law, because of the perpetrator of such abuse against one woman and others who should deal with this case. Politicalization and mere politicisation for political points are not really appropriate at a time like this and because of a case like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5363	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5364	I'll take a quick look after Natasa Jovanovic reminded you of something I wanted to remind you of. In 1995, a daily newspaper, which you loved, was published on the cover page of an old woman who was walking in Calemegdan and found it in a position in which a physiological need is being carried out. They posted it on the front page. I've started a debate here, and I've had your leaders attack me then and I have something against Slavko Curuvija, who was editing that list. My conflict with Slavko Curuvija began then and with all of you who have your values, when you hold in your hands a cantar, when these media suit you, when others are publishing vomit. Five days ago, this same newspaper published all kinds of lies about me, 99 percent of the truth, one percent of the truth, you don't mind, it suits you. When they come after you, then remember that this paper is really bad and that normal journalism needs to be developed in Serbia. Now let's condemn all of this newspaper, to start the action, but don't shut up when you're comfortable with something they're doing against the other people you're with in some kind of a dispute. You must have a universal principle. The real women are obviously hurt. Is there any responsibility in the law for that? If you don't, you can only protest. Now I invite you, if you are already meeting, to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the law that will make it impossible to do so. As long as it is not disabled by law, you will be able to use this pay phone to indicate that something is the Assembly's fault. Excuse me, ma'am, but what's the Parliament's fault? Maybe because it's not a good family law. Your authority has brought it. Let's change that law. Initiate a change of law, not protest gatherings. You don't get anything in protest parties. Who are you going against? He's gonna die tomorrow by announcing something about some radical, so you'll be glad, you'll rub your hands. Let's start the action, clean up Serbian journalism from vomit, attacks, perversions, anything that doesn't fit the normal state of mind, but if you want to, then forget about the EU. This is what the EU has brought you. The one in Serbia has never been. This now, ever since you adapted to all EU conditions, has now surfaced on the front pages of the newspaper of the lowest passion. When it was news for a good Serbian journalist. When it came to a good reporter, it was news that someone beat up a woman. It goes to the pillar of shame, not to lift the circulation. Now, we're going to take part in this, we're going to meet, we're going to make a proposal to amend and supplement the laws that will be disabled, it's going to be the first law that we're going to vote for in this assembly. If you meet just to complain and whine, there's nothing to do with that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5365	We are continuing to discuss the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe CEFTA 2006. The word has a folk MP Milena Stankovic, one minute has an LDP parliamentary group and has Nikola Vukelic to prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, President of Parliament, first I must express a protest that Minister Dinkic is not here, because when we MPs speak, and he does not listen, it is completely pointless. Then I have to agree with Mr. Nikolic, it's just painting and nothing more. We're going out here to say something to the minister and maybe he'll hear something from it, adopt it, transfer it to the prime minister and change something into politics. Anyway, what I wanted to talk about today is about the town I came from, the Kragujevac. Here's what this has to do with CEFT. The CEFT agreement gives countries a chance to find their partners and to place common products on foreign markets without customs duties and without other restrictions. The essential interest of Serbia and its citizens is that this agreement does not remain a dead letter on paper, but that it actually survives. In order for that to happen, it takes two conditions to be met. It is necessary, under one, for some competitive products in Serbia that can be interesting in these foreign markets and, under two, that there is the will of foreign partners to co-operate with Serbian businessmen. At this point we all know that, we should not be some great economic experts, almost nothing is produced in Serbia, or we import almost everything. Look at your households, literally from a spoon, and then we import everything further. On the other hand, we have a situation where there are so many unemployed people in Serbia. Here, for example, there are 30,000 unemployed people in Kragujevac and what I wanted to talk about, and it was very important for me to have Mr Dinkic here, is what we talked about this summer. Kragujevac was in the public eye because there was no such thing as an unusual organisation, which is employment and education. Indeed, it is a unique organization in the world because there were employees of people who received wages and did nothing. When the government and Mr Dinkic decided that the organisation should no longer exist, the LDP city board, as well as any responsible political group, gave its position on it. We didn't want to be demagogues, even though we could be and say it's terrible, it's terrible, people are poor, they have nothing to live on, even though it's true, we already said that the economically unsustainable existence of such an organization. It really is. Then we asked a question, which is a question of responsibility – why did these people not get a chance to work elsewhere six years after the establishment of that WHO? Why Kragujevac is a city where no investments have arrived, almost nothing since October 5th. At that moment, we found those responsible in the governments of Vojislav Kostunica, whose minister was Mr Dinkic. That was very important to us. What is very important and what needs to be pointed out at this point is that these governments have shown that they have no political will to create a serious economic turn, which all citizens would feel in their families, in their lives. We constantly point to this national issue and distract citizens from their refrigerators being empty. The relationship towards Kragujevac, in fact, confirms that there is no political will to bring CEFTA to life in fact. We will vote that agreement, but it is completely meaningless and insignificant if it does not live in life. That is why when we say that we support this Agreement, we really want every member to live. But in order for him to live, it is necessary to either happen or that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, at this point, makes a complete turn in its policy and puts its citizens and their needs into focus and simply that new parliamentary elections take place, that some new people come, get a chance and show what they know and take a little more care of citizens and their needs, and a little less to deal with some big topics. Just one more sentence, it seems to me that this second option is much more real than this first one and we're ready for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5367	The word has a National MP, Nikola Vukelić, and let Zdravko Topalović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5368	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that comes to mind when it comes to the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe is that it is one of the signatories of this agreement and the Umnik on behalf of Kosovo. Why is this material mentioned in Kosovo, not Kosovo and Metohija? Does it bother anyone, because from the very name, which comes from the word "methoh" - church property, it is seen that it is a historic Serbian country. Then, one of the signatories is Croatia. You say the CEFTA Agreement is one of the preconditions, the first step towards our entry into the EU. If this step leads us through Croatia and Umnik, it seems to me that we are not going to have a very good time in the EU, of course, when you of DOS introduce us into the EU in 2015, 2020 or 2025, as German Ambassador Cobel announced, or it may be 2125. We know that Croatian companies are already running around Serbia and are ruining privatised Serbian firms, while our companies are almost banned from entering the Croatian market. Instead of bringing this agreement under the urgent procedure Dosovska registration, led by DS President Boris Tadic, Serbia's people who have been expelled from the territory of an independent state of Croatia should be returned to that people's fundamental human and civil rights. Among other things, the right to return without shagging and police torture, exposed to returnees, the right to refurbishment and construction of broken houses, apartments and other immovable property, and then to return to them the renting rights. According to official data, the OSCE is about 50,000 apartments and requests for them to be returned. Then return their pensions with retroactive action. Namely, pensioners who fled Croatia from early 1991 to 1996 did not receive pensions in 1997. These backlogs have never been received before today. This example shows all the perfection of the Croatian state. With the continued delay of the solution to this problem, the Croatian state is simply waiting for these people to disappear biologically. What about the right of Serbs to return, what about several thousand Serbs against whom Croatian authorities have indicted war crimes charges? On these charges are all the important representatives of Serbs from Croatia, but above all ordinary people who only defended their lives and the lives of their families. These are just some of the problems that our people have being expelled from the territory of AVNOJ Croatia, for DOS government, it seems not a priority, but the topic of the CEFTA Agreement, which will open the door wide to excessive imports from Croatia, thereby jeopardising domestic production and employees. Democratic Party President Boris Tadic does not have time to deal with the issues of Serbs Krajisnik, probably from a great apology to Stipe Mesic, Stipe Mesic, who was the first co-worker of Franjo Tudjman and Croatian Prime Minister at the time of the greatest disaster to befall the Serbian people by the Croatian Neusta government. We Serbs expelled from Croatia rightly wonder on behalf of who and why Tadic apologizes. Is he apologizing for a hundred thousand expelled Serbs and is he apologizing for thousands of killed, whose only sin was that they were Serbs? Is he apologizing for "Laura," "Divosello", "Koran Bridge", "Mara's Village," "Pacrat Field", "Paulin's Palace", "Glass", "The Storm"... Could Serb sites be listed suddenly? Is he sorry that on May 2, 1995, a Croatian plane, chasing a refugee Serb column from western Slavonia, crossed the territory of Republika Srpska and bombed the refugee column at Gradiška and two underage children died? That plane was shot down, and the pilot who died in it was Rudolph Pershin. That murderer of innocent Serbian children, the Croatian state has post-mortemly declared the national hero. Tadic's virus and apology mania is transferring to his co-workers, and they are now apologizing to the Montenegrin government, probably because the Montenegrin government tried to kill Prime Minister Filaret. The masochism of the Democratic Party's representative is turning into sadism towards its own people, and what is other than sadism, when on the 12th anniversary of the "Storms", the biggest tragedy of the Serbian people, the first programme of RTS shows a film about the fall of the Krajina. In the film, Serbs are portrayed as lunatics and traitors, and Ante Gotovina -- a Ustasha villain, whom even the UN tribunal could not see through his fingers, is presented as a great humanist. If it hadn't been for the RTS sign, everyone would have been convinced to watch Croatian radio television. Serbs from Croatia suffer the worst possible pressure from the Croatian authorities, but what hurts the most is the carelessness of their own, mother country of Serbia. So it turns out that Serbian ministers from the Democratic Party care more about the herd of lipicaners horses and chasing their lotions in an attempt to count them than about the elementary rights of the Serbs expelled from Croatia. The Croatian state was created on Serbian victims and heats, I hope, among other things, that this CEFTA agreement will not allow Croats to develop their economy and expand their market by destroying Serbian businesses, markets and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5369	The word is made by MP Zdravko Topalović and then by Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5370	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, we have yet another in a series of bad and unfavourable international agreements per our country - the CEFTA 2006 Agreement. The Serbian government has proposed that it be adopted by emergency procedure, although there are far more important priority laws and problems for the state. This agreement is very unfavourable for our country, and the public has been preparing through the media in Serbia for days how it is necessary to ratify this agreement, as it will allow our producers to penetrate the region's markets. As we know that the media in Serbia are not free, but strictly controlled, honoring some exceptions, so the truth is quite different, but is represented by government spokeswoman and president of Serbia. This contract requires importers, i.e. an import lobby, not domestic producers. I'll give you a few examples. Croatia's market, one of the countries that is accessing this agreement, is almost hermetically closed to goods, services and capital brought by Serbia. In Serbia, Croatian products are sold smoothly, and Croatian companies buy our 'Frikom', 'Diamant' and you have other examples. Mr. Minister is not in the O.R. because he does not respect the MPs, but I would ask him a question – is it possible that some of our products, such as mineral water "Knjiz Miloš", "Simka" or "Pionir", are processed from meat and domestic food producers, our dairy, alcoholic, products or textile gins from Novi Pazar, can you buy in Croatia? Namely, this is an example of how the government in Croatia prevented the purchase of a carlovska mlekar from the Salford Investment Fund, which owns several dairy companies in Serbia, under the pretext that the fund was only registered in London, and that Russian capital is behind it, and that it promotes Serbian businesses. Almost the president of the main opposition party, the Social Democratic Party or the Party of Croatia, called for an open boycott of all our products, under the pretext that it is not yet time for Serbian businesses to buy Croatian businesses and place their products in Croatia. Annex 1 of this Agreement reads: 'Confirming its obligation to the principles of market economy which is the basis of their economic relations'; or Chapter 1 of Article 3 relating to quantitative restrictions, and as Croatia continues to apply protectionism in relation to us, do you believe that they will apply these principles. We have an example, we spoke in Parliament, that the Muslim part of Bosnia and Herzegovina also violates bilateral agreements with Serbia. Why is it inadmissible to sign this agreement? Because this agreement on behalf of Kosovo and Metohija is signed by UNMIK and their administration. According to Resolution 1244, we know that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. How can UNMIK sign an agreement on behalf of a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? It should not be signed, because it is one of the signatories of Croatia, which prevents imports of Serbian products, transport of services, capital and everything that comes from Serbia. It should not be signed because Croatia has persistently denied genocide against Serbs in World War II, the last war of the 1990s, which has not damaged the victims of ethnic cleansing by Croatian paramilitary and military formations and prevents the return of Serb refugees to its centuries-old hearths. One of the reasons is that in 2006 there was a deficit recorded with Croatia in the trade of goods with a wide consumption of $14.8m and that the deficit is displayed every year. This is where Minister Dinkic presented the information that with countries signing the CEFTA Agreement we participate with 30% in exports and 8% only in imports. It should be said that this amount represents exports of unprocessed agricultural products, meaning raw, live cattle, which destroys this country's livestock stock and possibly semi-products. In Serbia, finished products are returning, and this is a typical example of colonial behaviour in the economy. Therefore, this data presented by Minister Dinkic in percentages is correct, but the structure of the goods should be specified. As long as all disputed issues with countries in the region are not resolved, Croatia should not, above all, sign such an agreement, and the priority should be to return all Serbs to their hearths in Republika Srpska, which is temporarily occupied in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is where I heard some MPs say good neighbourly relations. As far as I know, Serbia is not a neighbour with Croatia, but with Republika Srpska Krajina, which is temporarily occupied. I would ask the MPs to at least get a good idea and at least look at the cards and learn the geography. Slovenia is not a signator of the CEFTA Agreement, it should be noted that the deficit in the trade of goods with Slovenia in 2006 was 40.4m US dollars. According to data from the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce in Serbia, there are 320 Slovenian firms, and in Slovenia no Serbian. Serbian citizens, if Slovenia is in favour of an independent Kosovo, why should we buy Slovenian products? It should be stated that Slovenia has prevented the purchase of Ljubljana's dairy and the purchase of Istria Benza's 'Delti' through its para-state funds. I don't want to defend the Delta, it's just a matter of principled nature. As regards CEFTE and the law supplementing the tobacco law, you state in an explanation that you are changing it because of the harmonisation of our legislation with the rules of the European Union, the World Trade Organisation and CEFTE, under the pretext of stable development of the domestic tobacco industry. Article 4 proposes to abolish the obligation of buying-in, i.e. the production of domestically processed tobacco to manufacturers of tobacco products. That's what you explain with equal treatment with foreign tobacco producers. That certainly doesn't match the domestic tobacco producers. You and the Excise Act have changed by increasing excise duties on domestic cigarettes more than excise duties on imported cigarettes. We know that you have released companies in Serbia such as Philip Morris, British American Tobacco, the famous GPI, and by doing so you are pushing your finger around foreign investors, which you are opening through the door of Rovinj tobacco factories – primarily the unquality cigarette manufacturer. Therefore, it must be decisive and in all ways prevent the further economic occupation of Serbia by Slovenia and Croatia by boycotting their goods and opposing the sale of our businesses to companies from Slovenia and Croatia. It should finally prevent those who in Serbia are promoting and supporting such an economic occupation, which are primarily Dosovljevic, Vlahovic, Djelic, Cvetkovic, and above all Dinkic, and accuse them of criminal association against Serbia's economic and financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5371	The word has a folk MP Vlado Sekulic, then Otto Kishmarton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the CEFTA Agreement is a final blow to the destruction of Serbia's economy and to fulfil a political order, not for regional co-operation, as it wishes to be shown by the government. The action plan was a prerequisite for the CEFTE Agreement, as it is another condition for EU entry, according to both Minister Dinkic and the government. It is another experiment in a series that the government of the Republic of Serbia agrees not to take care of the interests of Serbia and the Serbian economy. Since 2000, this authority has agreed to all harmful agreements always with an explanation – even this to be done and will receive us into the European Union. Thus, Mr Dinkic presented yesterday's CEFTE Agreement as something that will bring rebirth to Serbia and Serbia's economy, according to it, as a CEFTE member, we export 30% of our goods to them and import 8%, growing exports in the first six months. The establishment of free trade is predicted, there will be no customs duties, and on our products will be written made in CEFTA. The top is that Serbian companies will have the same treatment of bidders in CEFTE member states since 2010. This is already completely declassified because we know ourselves, as our predecessors have said, what is the relationship to our goods in Croatia or any country that is a member of CEFTE. It is true that the members of CEFTE are members of the country of the former Yugoslavia, which have bloodyly seceded from us to the harm of the Serbian people, and now that they do not have a market, we serve them as a transit station to the European Union and provide them with the possibility of economically strengthening Serbia. They will strengthen, and we will remain ruined. The Serbian economy will fail, and when they do, they will be admitted to the European Union, and Serbia will be increasingly poor. Then the citizens of Serbia should trust this government to be the price to pay for entering the European Union. It is true that Serbia has a deficit with Croatia of over $40m, as Mr Dinkic has shown, as if we have a surplus against all other members. Only Croatia has a deficit of over 40 million dollars. Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a signatory, is the first to hold and introduce customs duties on our products, especially in the part of food and agricultural products. I would like Mr Dinkic to answer, although he is not there, which is an impressive surplus achieved with Moldova, Montenegro or Macedonia. What has yet to be said for UNMIK-Kosovo signatories. I think it is indeed the biggest shame for the Serbian public in general and for the Serbian economy that we will have, that we already have on our market – products have already appeared, TVs, where it says made in Kosovo, in our wholesales, so they have already started. Now, those who kill our people and banish our people, support them and allow them to enter our market, strengthen against the damages of the Serbian economy and to the harm of all citizens of Serbia. When the government thought about the CEFTA Agreement, before that any normal government would first strengthen its economy, make competitive goods, quality products, predict the safeguards that should be installed, that simply our economy does not suffer losses and anything else that would be normal to do, they have failed to strengthen the economy in seven years. They failed to stop the accelerated growth of the foreign trade deficit, which has increased to the same period since last year, by 46.2%. The deficit for the first seven months, that's not what Mr Dinkic wanted to say, is five billion. Inflation is planned up to 6%, and we will be happy all citizens of Serbia if it stops at 9%. Mr. Dinkic told another story the other day. He said he acknowledged that the problem of number one of our foreign trade exchanges was excessive imports. I quote Mr Dinkic: "The state cannot calmly see that imports grow at a rate of 43.8% and that imports increase the deficit". So what he said, with this CEFTE agreement, is even more deepening and we're going to have an even greater deficit. The first is Croatia and all other countries that are interested in our market. Our market is also interested in entering our market, and it will also put an end to this troubled economy of ours. How serious this side of the trade balance is that the first four months spent $5.2 billion for imports, while in the same period last year it cost Serbia $3.5 billion. Imports grew by a rate of 21.8% which was twice as fast as the rate of export growth. The export structure remained unchanged. In the first place is imports of energy, for which nearly $580m has been allocated so far. The state must offer an export strategy as soon as possible and define key sectors that will help, as it may happen at the end of the year to welcome the trade deficit situation of more than eight billion. As for this part that processes tobacco, I'm going to say something very briefly, in fact I'm not talking about tobacco, I'm going to talk about it below. This CEFTE agreement is really something that will bring Serbia's economy to a collapse, it will turn down foreign investors, our workers will stay on the street, and the state will literally run out of money. I'm asking a question, who's really in the interest of signing CEFTA? Who will benefit from this agreement, and the answer is that it will benefit a small number of people who profit well from this import lobby. It is simply possible that the government and their representatives will be attached to their utopian idea of joining the European Union, and this will be all at the expense of the Serbian people and the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5373	The word has the People's MP Otto Kismarton, and then Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: How about the Rules of Procedure, it is very important? ) I'll take the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Krasic. It's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5375	Mr. Albianic, I hope you see how important it is when the legislators represent someone who is competent. So that's the same member yesterday. What's this about? According to countries that are signatories to what you call CEFTA – Central Europe, the state, free trade and so on. But I don't know since Serbia is in Central Europe. We used to be SFRY. A large number of signatories are the former republic of the SFRY, and then the states came into existence. So when it started to disperse again, ma'am, they called us the Western Balkans, right? The Western Balkans, you remember. For five years they have been talking about the Western Balkans – the Western Balkan countries should be joined together into the European Union, we have been baptized with both left and right hand what is: the Western, southern, northern, eastern, like this division of the Balkans. According to the CEFTA, which fell off the CEFTE because it came to a higher level of free trade, only the Western Balkans remained. This Western Balkans because of Tanja Miscevic, as she understands it better, she could not understand if the Balkans are said or said Serbian countries etc. As far as I'm concerned, "Great Serbia" is one very nice regional association of all Serbian states, which can be in an absolute free trade and a single market zone and is thus the most suitable for EU accession. Let me explain to you what this is about. Before 1990, SFRY, it was also the prototype of an EU. The single market, currency, there were no problems in the flow of goods, capital, social property, alliance of communists, personnel etc. They didn't like it, so the small EU destroyed it. I suggest that Mr. Kostunica make a selective approach to this and change the name, that it be an agreement on the free trade of Serbian states in the Balkans, what remains. It is the best proof that the Serbian people are uniquely capable of the EU. There are no economic barriers. I know that I will be supported by all the economists in the country. You know why? Because for the past 250 years, politics has been a synonym for the word economy. There's nothing unprofessional, bad here, this is the most economically just thing. Why? In this territory, which I was talking about, over which you are disgusted when you say Karlovac-Carlobag-Virovica, I know that you are already creeping out, etc., it is a good limit for a new economic market for the well-being of all citizens living in that territory, without any discrimination. They won't bother changing currencies, no problems, no foreigners, no law on hiring foreigners, etc. So, an economic justification exists, there is a willingness to adopt all economically acceptable regulations, very similar or identical to those which, for example, apply in France, appreciate France as a leader in the EU, they don't care about the EU, they look at their interest, in translation to tell you. They don't hide it, they say it in public. That's how we're supposed to act. Mr. Albianic, in order for you to understand better, if we had a competent representative of the government here, then he would tell us what kind of relationship we have and CEFTA and how we are geographically regionally able to be with the territory of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc., because originally there was this CEFTA. So the waste was reduced to it, but it hasn't changed its name. If something should look normal, here I have offered you a disgusting alternative to calling it the Western Balkans, for which I will not vote, but I would suggest Kostunica, because he is a nationalist, to remake this free economic market of 'great Serbia'. Here, all the radicals will accept it, I guarantee you. Have one of the geographers explain to me what this is about when CEFTA is used for the Western Balkans or for Serbia. What a geographical connection we have to the Czech Republic, Poland, Moldova, please explain to me. Just one more thing, just remember what that map of these countries that signed this looks like. Do you not notice that Hungary and Bulgaria have separated us from Moldova? Moldova is in this agreement. That would be like something whole plus. It's not 17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5376	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5377	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, honourable MPs, we've heard a lot about CEFTI. Radicals prepared themselves nicely. The question is now that we are talking about whether or not we should accept some material, which are the advantages of which we should vote to accept this agreement or why we should not. We are aware of the advantages of the minister, but unfortunately none of them said the negative consequences of CEFTE. He said the advantage would be to achieve regional economic corporations, that's nice. Easier exports and free trade will be made possible, and that's nice. What is most important, most important, is that it will speed up the EU integration process, which is what Atlantic integration says, for the next 25 years and that will happen. I wonder why we are in a hurry and meet all the EU requirements, which is why we want to get on a train that won't get us there. Why don't we turn to countries that want to co-operate with our country, who want to co-operate on equal grounds? Our government says that confirmation of the benefits of CEFTE is that the countries that were members of CEFTE have entered the EU, however, as I said, nothing is said about the possible negative consequences of joining CEFT. For example, for one thing, rapid growth can occur; there may be rapid growth in imports of everything and everything, which is already present on our market. Secondly, the suspension of customs duties will also reduce the country's customs revenues. Third, competition in certain areas will increase. Competition is good and necessary for a country that is strong, an economy that can handle it. We, unfortunately, have no protection, no agriculture, no industry. We have been witnessing these years that the best Serbian companies have been sold to Croatian and Slovenian tycoons. Croatians and Slovenians took control of the best part of the Serbian industry, got the best locations for their market centres and supermarkets and bought thousands of hectares of the Serbian country. Thanks to the former and current government and political elite, Croatians and Slovenians have taken over the most successful Serbian firms, Soko Sturk, Frikom, Diamond, Somboled, Livnica, silo etc. Serbian citizens know in their places that are all companies that have taken over foreign states. On the other hand, you should look at what Serbian firms are present in Slovenian and Croatian markets. They're almost gone. There's very few of them. Those present experience a boycott on these foreign markets by consumers. That's why I say so. Serbian experts have no economic strategy whatsoever. Our experts have no vision of our country's development, they only have a vision of how to fill their pockets with money, etc. Fourthly, the opening of the market and the malversion of imports brings unemployment and declines in domestic production. That's a good example of Hungary. That's closest to me, because I often go there, and I know what the situation is, that their domestic companies are closed, and there's foreign goods on the market. Free flow of goods and capital in Serbia, which I hope is, not long now, in a bad economic situation, can bring nothing good but only make this bad situation worse. Market liberalisation can only bring good to developed countries with strong economic and military power, which have a dominant position on the market. Even these developed countries protect their economy, as well as the European Union, which protects agriculture. Some countries, like our Serbia, still believe in fairy tales of globalisation or are forced to believe it, continue to follow the path of entry into Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5378	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and then Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5379	Ladies and gentlemen, today, after a long period of time, we are first in a position to talk seriously about the foreign trade policy run by this country and the future of trade in Serbia as the ruling majority imagines it. The Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, which is before us today, has been presented to us as something that needs to help strengthen regional economic co-operation, but in reality it carries a lot of dangers and negative effects that can be conditional on trade and the country's balance of payments. This will certainly lead to a decrease in customs revenues and a decline in domestic production, and we also expect an increase in the external trade deficit that is growing rapidly in Serbia these days. A particular problem when we talk about the political part since this agreement is essentially presented as something that is a factual step towards the European Union, it is in fact one of the basic wings that defends the ratification of this agreement. On our part, it can also be seen that one of the countries that is here as a country, if we can say so, is because it is a foreign country, according to Kosovo, or UNMIK. Not even UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo and Metohija, but UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo! On products that you will have the opportunity to buy, you will have one of the countries of Kosovo's producers. Then we ask ourselves as a state that wants to protect our country's territorial integrity, someone who is fighting for Serbia's integrity, which opposes the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, we will accept that in all these countries, Kosovo's region is equally represented as part of Serbia that is completely outside Serbia, which is not part of Serbia. As for the economic work that is very, in our opinion, problematic in the measures provided for in this agreement, we have one, in addition to those that my colleagues have pointed out, the measure that the state will refrain from using export subsidies and the abolition of existing export subsidies in trade, and any state aid that violates what they say will be prohibited by favouring certain goods. You can think of the effects this will have on domestic production. Perhaps these measures could be applied among countries of equal economic power, among developed countries, but how do you explain, for example, to a peasant who is in the Valjev area, who produces a plum, whether it's a 'burner', whether it's'stenley', whether it's 'chance', or which produces raspberries in Požega. How can you explain to them, since it is now the first Serbian export product, how will the state protect production, how will we succeed in stimulating, since we export the most to the territory of the European Union and Russia, how will we be able to protect when we still don't have strong enough machinery, when neither the irrigation systems are built, if the state is disabled by the signing, or ratification, of this agreement to help its production, because it will be characterized as unfair or illegal competition? Not at all! You'll have to tell them how you know. Otherwise, I'm very unhappy with the country's attitude towards agricultural producers, where the state does not go to explain to these people what the future is and how it should be prepared. It's something that hopefully we'll have a lot more opportunities in other topics to talk about. The German Development Bank is acting completely different. They stimulate their exports, stimulate credit operations abroad that boost German economy. We need to be guided by a serious economic example of these countries. We should not accept everything that may be or is certainly at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. Regardless of the safeguard measures provided for in points 22, 23, 23 bis, there is a serious danger that in all mutual disputes that may arise among the signatories, or those that are ratified, deposit ratification instruments in Croatia, the possibility can be clearly seen that all these disputes will be discussed in the body that will be formed in this agreement will be practically out of Serbia's hands. It will be again in the situation and the Serbian economy to be decided by someone who may be a direct competitor and in whose interest it is to stop some of our economic movements to simply profit from it. When it comes to the size of the market, I don't need to remind you that we have signed bilateral agreements with all these countries. We have 32 bilateral agreements, only in this situation the state has protected its production, as well as those countries and we on this principle function quite successfully, even the private sector increases exports because our goods we export are extremely high quality. As for the oil industry, which I would like to refer specifically to, I think that by ratifying this agreement, there will be serious damage in the area of oil production and especially oil derivatives. Because by eliminating the privileged position that Serbian refineries have today, by opening our market without any protection, we will be in a situation where the value of our national oil industry will be significantly lower. INA expects that the Croatian state will have the highest income, ratification, from jobs in this area, they often expect it, that it will increase exports to Serbia to 400,000 tonnes in the nearest future, that is about 10%, and that by investing in gas stations, they say, it will succeed in increasing it to 3.8 million tonnes or almost 30% of our consumption. Our refineries are out of date, and they're not in a position to run a fair match today. By signing and ratifying this agreement, we will cause damage to the domestic oil industry, and think, if that is not done, that the oil industry, of course, with the help of a strategic partner from Russia by building pipelines and pipelines in three years, could become the leading oil industry in this region, which certainly does not correspond to all these countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5380	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5381	Mr Albianic, I would draw your attention to taking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to pay attention to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and how the Republic of Serbia enters bilateral and multilateral international relations. Why? I'm calling again on that article (134), I think, if I haven't made a mistake, about how the bill should be done. What's this about? Could we have concluded a contract in which a foreign contractor would be UNMIK? UNMIK is an interim UN exposure, a temporary administration. She was given some authority by Resolution 1244. It is clear to me that these short people cannot understand what 1244 is, but 1244 in its essence guarantees the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which means both Kosovo and Metohija. So, when Vojislav Kostunica went to sign a contract, he had to know that his signature includes both AP Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija do not have an international and legal subjectivity during UNMIK and KFOR's mandate and it does not have a foreign representative. The UN is not a representative of territory, one territory of the Republic of Serbia abroad. We are represented abroad by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. You must know that in international relations so-called. non-contractual and contractual law exists. A non-contractual right arises by the General Assembly adopting an act, declaration, convention, etc., and then the states approach it, taking over as general rules of international law and introducing their internal legal order. The second form of international law is a contract, whether multilateral or bilateral. The UN can enter into international contracts that regulate the status of their employees, some of the UN's rights on certain territory. But they are not authorized to come forward as the authority of some territory that is not internationally recognised as independent. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I hope you find this interesting, Mr. Albianic, to find out some things. This is not the type of violation of the Rules of Procedure - who is the representative of the Government, what is it, but what is done... (President: I found it very interesting. )......................................................................................................... Just so you understand, what are the fundamental shortcomings of such an agreement and why we have this law. It's the law. Not that big book, that big book is to entertain the nation. We have this law. When you've already tried to be funny, please, Mr. Albianic, to give me the information by the end of today's session, today's work, to see if the government is telling or cheating on us, as she pleads here that someone has concluded, who has concluded, that it takes 32 contracts to replace one. Who's the one who said 32 bilateral contracts should be replaced by one multi contract? Now explain to me which of these states we have already concluded free trade contracts. Let me remind you, these are those contracts in which one state recognises the status of the most privileged nation. Something I don't remember these contracts and something I don't remember is that something called the Stability Pact has the strength to turn everyone's hands and say, you have to sign this, and you even have to be Central Europe. What is written here looks to me like Radoman Bozovic, who said in the Federal Assembly – when I see 70 hands in the air, I will also declare the globe a quarter. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I expect that someone will answer me, Mr. Albianic, for two days now, no one will answer me. Don't ignore me. It turns out that as a socialist, Zarko Obradovica is more appreciated and you hate me as a radical. I feel discriminated against.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5382	The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and then Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. That's what my colleague Krasic was talking about. I am really confused by this central Europe. For all I know, we and the countries around us are in another geographical area, which is Southeast Europe. Somehow, it remains noted that such and similar agreements are always forced before some elections are held in Serbia. So, it seems to me, in December of the month, that the government, then the technical government, signed this agreement, and now, before the local and presidential elections are held, is required to ratify this agreement here in the House. Of course, all this is done on the orders of foreign mentors, because, for God's sakes, their orders are not to be rejected, because otherwise this government would not be a government, but instead someone else would rule this country today, would be former government, colleague Markovic, but what if they had to do what they're in charge of. With this agreement, the state of Serbia is making huge commitments, with virtually much more damage than benefits. At the expense of this agreement, only the SRS indicated. However, I must admit, as I come from Nis, I am aware that the management of the Nish tobacco factories, or the Philip Morris factory, as this factory is now called, has pointed to the adverse consequences of this agreement. In a way, it's kind of paradoxical that none of the other business entities in Serbia have pointed to this except for this mentioned management of the Nis tobacco factory, especially if it is known that the management is mostly made up by foreigners. Of course, they do it for their own reasons, not for reasons of concern for the state of Serbia and our market. The CEFTA agreement is also in some way the EU's recognition that it has run a little bit with the EU's accession of certain countries, such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and some Baltic countries, and this is why the CEFTA agreement, as one said yesterday, is the EU lobby. I'd call it an auxiliary field for some small players who are promised to be on the main field soon, just need a little bit of improvement. Of course, it's nothing. This agreement, in fact, takes place by gouting the member states mentioned, who naively believe that one day they will be equal and full members and members of the EU, and by that time there will be many more. The goods produced in the Member States of this organisation will bear the mark made in CEFTA, as the largest number of our citizens understands, which, in some ways, can mean that they will all be equal, that there will be no favouring certain economic operators. But it looks that way just at first sight. If that were true, the example of Croatia which has long signed this agreement and has been intensively campaigning in Croatia – buy Croatian. Think of one example of this summer, as the manufacturer of the Redish conditor products passed when one of their brand'manchmelou' was withdrawn from the Croatian market due to allegedly some bacteria or whatever, I can't remember right now. This agreement will only benefit Croatia. Croatia has been preparing for this long ago and has already gained depositary status, although it represents twice as much market as it is our market. One more thing that does not require the adoption of such an agreement, such and similar agreements are not recognised by either state or nation. The countries and nations replace the concept – market and territory. Thus, Kosovo and Metohija became a full member of this organisation, although with some countries that have existed for several hundred years. Not only this example, Kosovo and Metohija have also become members of the European Energy Association or organisation. So, this is how the network about the independence of the Serbian state is intertwined, in order to do us harm. The provisions of this Agreement shall be based, to the greatest extent, on the rules of the World Trade Organisation. We, again, do not see that our interest, because our strategic partners are countries that are not members of the WTO, such as Russia. So she's not a member of the World Trade Organisation. Do we need to give up our strategic partners by signing one of these agreements? Finally, to conclude, the preamble to this agreement states that it is signed in one instance, in English, which means that translations into all other languages are not relevant and this can lead to certain things. It can happen either on purpose or on purpose that a word should be omitted and not translated properly, and the lawyers know better, it can completely replace the essence of things. So, looking at this agreement I've noticed in one place, I'm not going to read, on page 717 there's a translation of an English word left out, but I'm ending up, we're not going any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5384	We've got a few phone calls from the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Milosav Milickovic, then Zoran Krasic, two announcements by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 226. I'm asking for an explanation and a notice from the departments in charge, and I'm going to ask you a question in the end. The dissatisfaction with not being allowed to work yesterday was shown by workers from Rakovica, where I came from. After the privatisation that took place in 2003 and ended in 2005, with the participation of the government of Zoran Zivkovic, under the patronage of Mr Vlahovic, and ended in the government of Mr Kostunica, under the patronage of Minister Bubal. It is the following: before privatisation, from the documentation provided by employees at the "Record" Rakovica factory, it is evident that by letter to the Privatisation Agency on a timely basis, on 3 March 2005, they informed me that it was business, as they said, that it was a'mutary hunt' and informed the finance minister, the Minister of Economy and Privatisation and Serbian President Boris Tadic. Afterwards, privatisation was made, followed by dissatisfied workers and fired, over 200 of them, as well as pensioners who were denied compensation in accordance with the law under the actions. After their memo, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Regional Centre of Rakovica, whose minutes I have, carried out control, and Mrs. or Ms. Pribić Mirjana. It took almost three months to control it. I'm not going to read all the results, but I want to read two things. "In view of these documents, it was found that the company "Record" had a value of capital in the period of sale under the accounting of 2,544,902,000 dinars, and that it was sold for a amount of 419,540,160 dinars", therefore, a threefold lower sales of value continues to be found by the competent official of the Ministry of Finance, and that there is a conflict of interest as a buyer by the director of the seller through the wife. Further control has made an insight into the joint production contract concluded between the company "Vizahem" d.o.o., FGP "Record Holding", DP "Record Pneumatic", "Record Pipes and Technical Goods". The contract was concluded on 12 March 2003, immediately two days after the sale. The object of the contract is the joint production of the product, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5386	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5387	I'm quoting this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5388	You can't quote. You can take the book to get it, and then quote it, and it'll take hours. The Rules of Procedure are quoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5389	It is said that under the Vizahem contract, it provides repromatter and finance production by not providing taxes and contributions to the personal income of workers, contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act. So this is what the finance ministry's competent officer finds. There's a criminal report after that. In a criminal report, unfortunately, I can't read what it says. They're still unable to answer. I ask the question, since several relevant ministries are concerned, it is the Ministry of Economy, Justice and Home Affairs, that the whole process is being investigated because more than 20,000 people in Rakovica depend on the existence and work of this factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5390	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5391	Mr Albianic, these are Articles 136, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What exactly is this about? Since we realized yesterday that the big 1500-page book is not a text that pleases, but that it should be fog and that it can all come down to the part that I showed you, which is in five or six rows, after today's discussions, although I find it strange that there is no Mr. Matic here, he asked for this debate, but someone will tell him that. So now there's a more serious argument here, what's going to be a benefit, and what's going to be a damage to our economy and our interests. No one answers this question to us, and we can't find the answer to these questions in this thought process that resulted in six sentences. After Mr Savić, the question is logically asked, if the states of the signatories of this agreement should in a special way indicate that the goods are originating in the territory covered by this agreement, whether this is a kind of discrimination against other markets. You know that there are higher levels of quality in the EU and what we get with a sign that it has been produced in the EU, they have selected for the countries of Eastern Europe, Central Europe and their market. I'll take an example. Take the Colgate toothpaste, buy it in France, buy it in Belgrade, and tell me it's the same quality. It's not the same quality. You will later see that there are different languages written in the labelling of the declaration. In France, there is no declaration with all the languages used in the EU. So this is about one discriminatory agreement. Why? Because in the overall operation, how it allows to satisfy the appetites of its bosses as far as the EU has gone is that we are offered a European perspective. When you are offered a European perspective it is not a pigeon on a branch, it is nothing. That it's nothing shows the justification of this law. All the mind-sets of the government of Vojislav Kostunica to adopt this are reduced to this. Because we need someone to explain to us in front of the government whether if this agreement is signed, whether it means that it's being banned from any minister, that based on what a company has come here and said -- I'm going to build a factory on some green ice, which is why it gets out of the budget or the National Investment Plan or even from public funds to hire new workers. Does our budget fund foreign investors?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5392	Mr. Krasic, please, every time you check in with the Rules of Procedure, you go too far and that's not okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5393	I am absolutely certain that it is necessary for Mr. Kostunica to come to explain all the variations, because you see, as the MP comes out, opens up some topic, the government by silence, those who support the government shut up, fight only for a while, I guess you took the diaries, if you took home, what are you waiting for, no quorum, there's no need to be here if it's hard for you. No one's been arrested. This is Parliament, this is a free institution. And long, and tall, and short sitting here, the people chose them, if you don't like to leave, it's your legitimate right. Don't interfere with constructive work, this is constructive work, but we don't have a constructive talker on the side of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5394	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am most strongly protesting discrimination against the last days against the MPs of the SRS. You saw the president of the assembly, Mr. Dulic, that several times already in half a sentence, if it comes to the Rules of Procedure, then three minutes expire, interrupts the SRS MPs and does not let him finish any sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5396	You know very well that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5397	I have no intention of plowing with you, so come out for this pay phone, and say, and when you're sitting, you have no right to interrupt me. You saw today that Mr. Milickovic, Vice President Albianic, was interrupted in half a sentence – your time is up. Look at the other MPs who go out either by the Rules of Procedure or by the replica, or by any other basis, because no MP group spends time except for the SRS parliamentary group, so it cannot say on that basis – your time is up for the group. Amazingly, only Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic let me go yesterday, even though the time was up, to finish the sentence. Apart from Mr. Mrkonjic, all vice-presidents who chair, together with the president, are acting discriminatoryly towards the SRS. I think it's about time you stopped it. I know there's a new Rules of Procedure in your draft, but at least until you adopt it, respect the dignity of every MP and honor your dignity in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5398	Mr. Markovic, please don't abuse my tolerance during the session. That's not true what you said. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, then Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last six months, the ruling coalition has used a lot of praise about the CEFTA agreement and we expected here to support it primarily by the government, but I don't see the Minister of Economy and Regional Development present, and he wasn't here yesterday either. On my left, where MPs are ruling coalitions, I see only 15 MPs. Yesterday, the minister spoke for only four minutes about the CEFTA agreement. Coli Krasic gave a serious elaborate on what was said under this agreement. All 10 sentences and nothing more. If you appreciate this assembly, if you value your own people, it is necessary that the government's representative give far more serious elaborate and analysis of what will cause the CEFTA agreement. On the other hand, only an explanation in writing, what we MPs get, must be far more serious with all the effects that the CEFTA agreement will cause. You do not appreciate this congregation, nor do you appreciate your own people. The people of the lab that the minister submitted yesterday heard nothing but a certain touch with the data. I'm gonna stick to that data for a while. He said that in an external trade sense, it would come with the introduction and signing of the ratification of CEFTA with an agreement to prominent exports and imports. In 2006, we achieved a surplus and that we were the second foreign trade partner after the EU and that we had exports of 30% of our total exports and imports of 8% with CEFTA signatories. However, from the same ministry, the head of the regional trade co-operation department, Snezana Zubic-Petrovic, presented the following data a month ago – that we achieved 32% exports, 12% imports. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce certainly has the best data, it also provided the most complete data that is the most accurate. Exports were achieved from 36.6% and imports of 14.4%. Why is the minister coming out with this data? You're with the Ministry of Economy, prepare it, compare that data. Don't let the data get in the way here, so that we get two information from the Ministry. As for the very exposure to the effects that will cause the signing and ratification of this agreement, the minister told us that trade will be liberalised, that it will start with investments, employment, export and import growth, but without clear, nominal indicators of how real the results are and what will be the real effects. You have to go out with a study that will show these effects both economic and financial and fiscal, and also political effects, because you said it would cause stabilisation in a political sense, the development of better foreign trade in these areas. Speaking of financial and fiscal data, the minister forgot to tell us here that he will cover the deficit that will follow, given that we already have a deficit in the budget business, that he will cover the deficit due to the elimination of customs duties. We know that this year's budget system and the Budget Law provide for a deficit, but we know that customs are a very significant source revenue of the budget and that in this sense there should be a coverage for the funds to be lost. When we talk about certain countries that have previously signed the CEFTA agreement, we must mention Croatia aloud. Why? Because we have a deficit and a serious deficit with it in 2006, and it will increase further in 2007. We must talk about Croatia, and we must mention BiH, including Macedonia, we must mention the political repercusions of this agreement, primarily with Croatia and with everything else. Croatia has been open for the past six months to support Ahtisaari's plan and has actively advocated an independent Kosovo. I, as Prime Minister of the Serbian Krajina, must mention other political aspects of this problem. The same Croatia, which now supports independent Kosovo, has expelled 500,000 Serbs, does not allow a return there. She signed an agreement with Serbia in 1996 on normalisation of relations, where she committed to good neighbourly co-operation, support for the return, the safe return of the exiled Serb population. What she did, nothing! He won't allow it back. The second conflict agreement -- it has pledged to return all private property and give a fair fee to Serbs who have been expelled. Is that what it does? Don't do it. No apartment in social property has been returned from 50,000 apartments. With the 2003 Sarajevo agreement, she gave the green light again for the return, only normally, only signed the agreement again and did nothing. This is how Croatia treats Serbs politically and according to an agreement it signs, so it does not execute them, we move on. As well as economically, Serbia and Serbian goods are treated. She built a political awareness with Croats that everything that comes from Serbia is backwards, second-rate, dirty, etc. The Croats will not buy Serbian goods, they will only buy repromaterials, repack and re-enter our market. In the past ten years, after the war, more than 200 representations have been formed in Serbia's space. Why? Because she wants to create her own economic colony from Serbia and every country that has such a performance, she wants to make a colony here. Two hundred representatives of Croatian companies here, and how many do we have in Croatia? We only have two companies that are open there and five representations. We can't take the goods there, they won't let us. Politically satisfactory, economically trying to break us through presence. Furthermore, it is very important for agricultural production, given that we want from agricultural production to make one respectable production and through the food industry to fertilise and to go with a far greater type of treatment. The Croats don't allow our companies there, and here they open up their representations, as a sausage they're overrunning this market. Economically, they want to enter and break the Serbian economy at any cost, it is already broken, and it is particularly broken after 2000. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution and in the last two years has been intensively warning the government of the Republic of Serbia about the political aspects of the insolence, particularly Serbs and Krajisnik who have been expelled from the territory of the Republika Srpska Krajina Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we are also talking about economic aspects. I'll just mention the Jaffa product. The Jaffa product will never enter the Croatian market again, nor will the Republic of Slovenia, because that's how they do it. One more sentence. The mlekara in Karlovac, which should be bought from a Dutch-English company, whose majority owner is "Salford", just because it is suspected that Serbian capital could possibly be behind it, the Croats did not allow and did not accept the most favourable offer and sold it to a second-ranked company, which is one company that has two employees and 18,000 traffic in the previous year, there is nothing that smells like a Serbian entry into the Croatian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5400	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5401	Of course, Mr. Albianic, again those same members and I have been waiting two days for one of the government's competent deputies to come and explain to the MPs here, because such an explanation for such a great law is not in any normal proportion. I would really need Vojislav Kostunica to explain to me how this agreement will contribute to political stability. That, an economic and commercial aspect, which is also the reason for this agreement, to contribute to political stability and to be very precise, because I'm moving within the limits of a topic that is on the agenda today, or maybe someone is thinking about a new national corporation. We have these state corporations and we have one national corporation for some other questions, we may need some more national corporations. Here, I've been thinking for several days about launching an initiative to establish a national corporation for the resolution of the harmful consequences of Mladjan Dinkic's operation. This national corporation, the future, and I hope that this idea of mys is going to have to experience universal support, it's going to have to undo the consequences in the banking system, remember what happened to our banking system, who's all thrown out, and it would have to be done in some way to resuscitate our agriculture, because we've now got a registered peasant. We no longer have that old Serbian peasant, the géjà, the small slave producer or the big manufacturer, no, we have it recorded. We now have this peasant who was given it, thanks to G17 plus, the soybeans, you remember. So one year and the tobacco failed, because at the time someone signed that some kind of tobacco could be planted, some people planted, but nothing happened, there were disputes in Nis and I don't know how many hundreds of people were in court. Then we have to resuscitate those people at the National Bank of Serbia. And we have to make a kind of recovery, because during the election campaign, Mr Dinkic promised that a large number of people would work if they voted for him. There is a bit late, given that in Djindjic's 2005 projection, there was a year when we import labour, just to remind you what anyone said. Those from Kragujevac will have to enter the National Corporation for the Rehabilitation of the harmful effects of Mladjan Dinkic, who holds the gap, and I may not like the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, but I know that you are his prisoners and you may be changing the governor, but you are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5402	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5403	Mr. Albianic, in 16 seconds of overrun, you are discrimination against me, and Mrs. Plassic has spoken for 4 minutes and 37 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5404	Just so I can distract you, don't overstep your business powers somehow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5405	I know that you like to listen to these discussions where an explanation is sought, but there is no explanation for Mr Albianic, this is not only the problem of Serbian Radical Party MPs, not just MPs of the National Assembly, it is the problem of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, which they cannot get an adequate explanation for all of what the Government has written. It's not an explanation of 126 hands in the air and you know 126 is a number that shows a majority, but most are wrong, it's only satisfying one need, that most people share that opinion and share that fate and by sharing that fate we came into a situation that we don't know that the leader is leading us into a hole.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5406	The word has a folk MP Darko Glisic, then Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Dinkic is not in the O.R. and it is not important that I be so important to be in the O.R., it is much more important whether he will be in jail soon, because it is the place where he should be because of everything he has done in the previous period for Serbian citizens and for the state itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5408	Please, Mr. Glissic, let us respect the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5409	It will be better for you, too, Mr Albianic, to be safe when Mr Dinkic is in prison, incomparably better, as well as for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is undeniable that this proposal is harmful and Mrs Tabakovic has indeed been in a very specific and professional way, from this economic aspect, explained why this agreement should not be adopted, and no discussion that was against it was strong enough to disprove the facts that she presented. In my discussion, I will take a political aspect of what we are adopting here in the National Assembly, because indeed, if we have in the documents representing CEFTU that Kosovo is represented as a state, then we are on the wrong path. I don't know what we're making, and those strong resolutions that Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and why we commit to respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia when we adopt the CEFTA Agreement, and CEFTA on one of its websites, on the CEFTE map shown, has marked Kosovo as state borders. It drew Kosovo as a state and in the table, Kosovo has been marked as part of the country, as a member of this agreement, so what is this about? You got it. Anyone can access the Internet to see yellow marked. The yellow color, therefore, has become a synonym for everything that is bad, which is probably why it's marked that way. It has been marked Kosovo and marked by borders marked by the state. Do we give this agreement the right to tell Javier Solana tomorrow – well, well, when you can sit under the CEFTA agreement with Kosovo as a state entity, tomorrow it won't be a problem for you to do so in the Security Council, perhaps in some other organisation, eventually and in the Security Council itself. I think that is why every MP, who declares himself in the voting day for this proposal, must bear in mind that this route is being routed, is given the right for all those who want Kosovo to separate from the Republic of Serbia. So, the path is to make an agreement by agreement, an association by association and eventually to give us that ultimate station, the Security Council, and separate Kosovo. You can't explain to anyone, if in all documents CEFTE Kosovo has everything that stands for the state, and I repeat, even that CEFTE map on which they clearly marked it, then there's nothing to talk about here. So, I would like to ask you one more time, I would like to allow the other MPs who have applied to talk about this agenda point to think twice. Because if we don't have a state, we're free of the agreement, we're free of associations, we're free of all kinds of associations. If you don't have a state, you have nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5410	The People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic has the word, and then Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5411	Ladies and gentlemen, when one serious economic operator prepares for important negotiations with another economic operator, it is mandatory to prepare preliminary cost benefit price, useful analysis, because it is known that it is very rare to benefit, at no cost. After all, free cheese is only in the mouse. If it comes to state affairs, a number of serious costs of benefit analysis is necessary, because then, besides purely economic elements, very important political elements. In this presentation, the Commission is attempting to carry out a serious final cost of benefit analysis of the proposed CEFTA agreement prior to ratification, as there was no opportunity to carry out at least a short preliminary analysis at the beginning of the negotiations. In this analysis, the CEFTA Agreement is very important to reveal the basic reason for the CEFTA Agreement. It is not possible to take the impression that the basic reason is the apparent tendency to restore the economic situation in the previous SFRY, which has fallen apart greatly under the enormous pressure of NATO. Let us remember that in the previous SFRY three republics: Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the Autonomous province of Cosmet, received huge donations from the then existing federal budget. In addition, Cosmet received large donations from the Socialist Republic of Serbia's budget. The main donors, losers, were then the Socialist Republic of Serbia and the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. While the Socialist Republic of Croatia contributed less netly to the grant of its underdeveloped landscapes. Now there is no Slovenia in CEFTA, and undeveloped Moldova and Albania are added. So by economic coercion, Serbia would drag on the back while Croatia would, as usual, skillfully stand. The main motive for others, especially for Croatia, to enter the CEFTU is to enter the small door, through Serbia, into a hugely grateful market of the Russian Federation. It is known that Serbia has a highly privileged customs regime for exporting its goods to the Russian Federation. For others, especially for Croatia, it would be very attractive to use privileged customs treatment for Serbia by exporting its goods to the Russian Federation, with potentially lower doping in Serbia, as goods produced in Serbia. There, even likely, goods from third countries imported into the CEFTA area would appear, at low dumping prices, slightly improved, often simply using falsified paperwork in Serbia, which would be after privileged, placed in the Russian Federation, bringing peaks and tycoons of CEFTA huge profits. In addition, without CEFTE, there were such attempts, so in the Russian Federation customs warehouses there are blocked large quantities of suspected origin goods that are presumed to have just flown through Serbia and the investigation is under way. Such malfeasance allows for the CEFTA itself. See only Annex 4, Chapter 2) of Article 2b, as well as Annex 4, Chapter 2) of Article 3 where CEFTA is said to be preparing the Balkans for entry into Europe, i.e. to the European Union. The famous sentence of General De Gaulle on Europe from the Atlantic to the Ural is then forgotten. It means it's a good part of the Russian Federation in Europe. The Russian Federation stands far better because of huge natural resources than the already economically failed European Union, seriously rocked by the fall of its goods, by a huge increase in unemployment of over 40 million, huge strikes and a drastic decline in social giving. From this brief analysis, it is clear that for Serbia benefit since its entry into CEFTA practically does not exist, while the cost is enormously high – to drag on its rather unsatisfactory back undeveloped. The serious interest of Serbia is that regardless of cost, it is strong to help the brother's Republic of Serbia, and certainly not the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Federation. However, this is possible without CEFTA and is already done, using legal, special ties between Serbia and Republika Srpska. As for Cosmeta, while UNMIK and the company are there, the poor and discouraged Serbs in Kosovo should be strongly helped, not the others. You have come to this personal conclusion by analysing Serbia's entry into the European Union. There's something bigger than benefit. It is access to some European funds of a few hundred million euros, which is not exactly a sum compared to, say, the NIP, which we adopted during the adoption of the budget. But the cost is enormously large, devastating. Contegrating agricultural production in line with the needs of the European Union, not Serbia, and the smooth penetration of industrial giants from the European Union, which would crush the living part of the Serbia industry that is somehow being maintained in life, as well as the basic bait for Serbia's entry into CEFTU, getting a ticket there, sometimes Serbia's entry into the European Union -- is becoming worthless. Because of the time limit, I have to interrupt my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5412	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5413	Mr Albianic, for you it is a member of 136 and 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I now see why when he was changing the Rules of Procedure, he put these last two members in 225 and 226. Dear citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing for two days, and the government is not present in the National Assembly. Who could be a competent communicator to the MPs for this part of the agenda? Vojislav Kostunica, probably absent by some reports, is abroad, but he has a deputy, which is Bozidar Djelic. Maybe he's abroad, too, I don't know. But the two of them, I think they're competent for this part of the agenda. There are none, nor is there any more sober minister who would reasonably judge and be able to answer these reasoned discussions, where are the reasons and MPs who are for the law and those MPs who are against the law. In this way, the government demonstrates respect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. She says we threw you this bone, have fun with the MPs, we don't care. However, I am absolutely certain that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot endure such a debate and such a reasoned criticism and that they are collectively exposed to severe mental suffering. I'm interested, Mr. Albianic, in the answer to one question. What is the degree of mental suffering of government members when they hear something from congregation speakers that doesn't match their ear? The assembly is not a place to discuss and to celebrate with intoxicating words the great epochal results of those who cannot even sit in the same room, and are reportedly in the government. Every time one of the members of the government gets hurt in some way personally and expresses his disagreement with the discussion of an MP in the National Assembly, he folds the tab and sues the MP for those words he said in the National Assembly. For all of us MPs, it is important how much this mental pain is and how immaterial damage it is to members of the government. Of course, Dinkic precedes that. He sued Mr. Vukic over a discussion at the National Assembly, sued me for a discussion in the National Assembly, each MP who brings political qualifications from this pay phone. Why? The government keeps its ministers from criticizing through the justice system. What do we have left? That's a copy of the Minister's case. Let us all sue them because they do not respect the National Assembly and cause us mental suffering, and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia they cause severe mental suffering and severe, not materially, but also to God both in their works and material damage, so that we may equalise ourselves, a people against the Government. In front of who? In front of the same court. Let's put all the charges and the charges together, and let the political issues be settled by the court. We have ministers like that. That's why several representatives of the SRS here have repeated what the good friends of the minister, who are with him in the government, how he works, can either be in the government or in prison. That's the real truth of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5414	The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5415	Dear People's MPs, this agreement basically plays a more political role and influence than it does in this period, which reflects the right measure of economic development in the region. If political grounds were excluded and some behavioural conditions were added, which would mean that each member had an absolutely correct performance, both in imports and in exports of products from the country, then it would be seen for a longer period of time to produce the expected results. However, given the unequal economic role of members and the unequal overall level of development, as well as the expected great interest in the conquest of the market, the event is expected not only to be harsh but to be extremely well thought out. There is a special role in this agreement in the political sense, as it seeks to separate the region for a long time, all under a fine pretext that we are in the EU area where calm, beautiful life awaits us, as if we do not see frequent demonstrations in the EU. The application of force and the creation of a growing gap in the defence sense in which we are led to full dependence and pressure in behaviour and organisation, as well as the signing of UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo on this document. Annex One of the Agreement, in the introduction itself, says that foreign signatories must be convinced that this agreement will accelerate the intensifying of mutually beneficial economic relations between the parties and contribute to the integration process in Europe. In this way, the signatories confirm their commitment to the principles of the market economy, which is the basis for economic relations. Such a principle seems seemingly good, but only if different stages of development of each member are neglected, which will suffer significant material damage under such market conditions because of its unwillingness to deal equally with others where interest is dominant. Breaking certain activities in a member who is not sufficiently prepared has collated global damage, and the agreement does not treat that type of damage at all. In Article 1 The agreements are discussed on the objectives and assumptions that they are separate from the principles, correct and clear, stable and envisaged rules. It sounds nice, but the interests of those who are creating collateral damage, with this agreement, are not treated, because they are too complicated for the EU itself and, of course, they do not want to enter. In Article 3. The agreement concerns the abolition of all quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, resulting in the collapse of part of the economy in a Member State which has protected its production until then by customs, quotas, bilateral contracts. In principle, it is good to develop in some part the cheapest production, which will be a special benefit for the consumer and represent a good goal, but in other parts it may close whole branches, leave the population out of work, and the agreement does not treat this problem by a participant, in terms of certain social assistance or donations for some period, until it is achieved, the reorientation carried out. Art. Five and eight. The agreements restrict the Member from taking any measures to protect it through customs. Here you will pay attention to Article 5, because I will eventually turn to you again. Article 11. The agreement, while EU members are waging a real war in the field of agricultural policy, restrictions are being lifted here. If some members feel that something is not working on their enormous damage, then they may require urgent consultations in order to examine the situation. Until then, gender has passed, and the situation will not replace the headache and the enormous negative consequences, both through the impact on production and the loss of part of the market. Article 13. The Agreement assumes that members will resort to adopt certain technical barriers, which will protect their trade and in this case inform the Joint Committee. The Joint Committee will try to resolve technical barriers, but members will be forced to impose forces on the legal process of achieving the interests of their countries, in order to survive total misery and lack of protection from imprisonment to their market. In Article 15. The Agreement shall be mildly referred to as the association of parties to any measure where discrimination is made between products originating from the territory of the Parties in this Agreement and the abolition of such measures where such measures exist from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. Example – Slovenia responded to the delivery of "manchmelou" with the alleged failure to have, no less, than "salmonella". Never again will that product, as we have heard here, go to the Slovenian market. The Serbian product, he is just an example of how in the future, individual parties will respond to and think of hundreds of perversions to protect their market, and it will certainly be exceptional if some of their products are not found on the other side's market. Of course, parity as a rule or principle does not exist. Article 17. The agreement, however, provides for exceptions when importing and exporting or transit goods can be limited, and says they must not constitute a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction of trade between the parties. These exceptions will only form the basis for avoiding the protection of their economies, so they will serve especially as a good valve. Art. 19, 20 and 21. The agreements do not lay down clear competition rules but indicate that the parties work more perfidently in the conclusion of agreements and contracts where fair economic performance will lose any race. Members of 22nd and 25th talk about the protection of the contingent and that the problems will be resolved by the Joint Committee, but in case there are no decisions within 30 calendar days and the problem continues, the complaining party may adopt the appropriate measures necessary to correct the situation. Of course, such measures will, as a result of the inconsistency of the Agreement itself, create new disagreements and significantly address the problems of trade in which interest plays a key role, and in other members there are grounds that only in principle are required to create conditions for trade without restriction and in order to create as cheap a product as possible, as well as to protect creditors and investors. The fate of the country's development, the social conditions that will be worsened are not the subject of CEFTA 2006, the collateral damage in the economic part but the weak economy of the country, is their thing and therefore, applying this agreement, should be reconciled. The essence of CEFTA in 2006 is, for a long period of time, as an idea, perhaps good, but this agreement which can only be achieved by supplementing and ensuring that the relevant material compensation by developed countries is provided to underdeveloped countries under this agreement in a certain period of adaptation for the creation of conditions for accession in order to avoid developed North and Restricted South syndrome and to the population due to life on the lower border of poverty. Here, let me go back to that point 5 CEFTA protection. I'll read it. It means that, following the signing of the CEFTA contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Parliament has passed a law amending the CEFTA provisions and introducing a 40% customs duty on imports of milk, meat and meat processed meat from Croatia and Serbia. The House, the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, previously adopted the CEFTA Accession Agreement on Wednesday (September 5th) to violate the provisions of the Agreement only a day later, introducing customs duties on imports of food from neighbouring countries. What are we talking about here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5416	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Jekranovic, and then Tomislav Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, CEFTA - 2006, but there is no minister to defend this Agreement. Article 4 concerning the entry into force of this Agreement states that the Agreement enters into force on 1 May 2007, as we see today, is 13 September 2007 and because of you from the ruling coalition and your squabbling on world resorts, this agreement cannot enter into force, and the question is whether this assembly will accept this agreement. The signing of this Agreement is driven by personal and individual interests and various types of pressure both on the outside and on the inside. The Minister has not told you anything significant about what it will mean to sign this agreement, whether it will lead to the development of our economy, to the opening of jobs, to increase the specificity of our goods on the world market or to the reduction of the external trade deficit, and of course he did not say, because it will lead to quite opposite effects. It is particularly interesting point 7 of Article 4 where it is stated: ‘Any Contracting Party may apply this Agreement temporarily if this is in accordance with its Constitution’. The question arises as to what the word "temporary" means whether it means that when the Agreement meets, it will apply, and when it does not correspond, there is no application of the Agreement. It is particularly important to point out that Serbian citizens know what countries are signatories to this agreement, which are: Albania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, Moldova, UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo and Serbia. As far as I know, Kosovo is not a state but an integral part of Serbia, so the question is how do we sign an agreement with part of our territory. In Annex 1. The amendments and accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe in Article 1 shall specify the objectives of this Agreement and the first thing that is seen is to mix a Cyrillic-Latinic letter, but what is more important is what is referred to in point (b) ''to improve conditions for further improvement of investment, including direct foreign investment''. What does that mean? Are you going to sell out what's left of Serbia because you're going to fill your suitcases because as you've done so far, that's all you care about. You are not interested in the fact that our companies are not equal in the surrounding countries when buying companies in those same countries, because there are situations where at least some companies are suspected to have Serbian capital they are disqualified based on various explanations. Under point c), the Latin also states as the aim of this agreement "to expand trade in goods and services and encourage investment through correct, clear, stable and predictable rules". The question arises as to how trade in goods and services will be expanded. Does this mean that we will be buried with a wide variety of goods from neighbouring countries that will be cheaper than ours and thus choke on what little production remains in Serbia, because you have destroyed everything that could have been destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the state of our economy, how competitive our products are on the world market. Production is known to be obsolete and high costs per product unit. It is also common knowledge that each of our products is much more expensive than the products produced in other countries. The question arises as to how we will be competitive in this newly opened market. Also, there is a question of what it will mean to us and to get smaller customs rates on exports or not to have them at all or to get certain export quotas when we have nothing to do with it. In fact, we will, we'll only have damage. It is known that over the past period we have received export quotas for the export of meat to foreign countries, but, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have done nothing to make this exports and to be realised. I can't help but mention Sremska Mitrovica, a city that was huge about industrial production, in the industrial zone there were companies that were involved in various activities and employed about 15,000 citizens of Sremska Mitrovica Municipality, and today, after seven years of your government, we have about 15,000 unemployed persons at the Employment Office. Right now in Sremska Mitrovica, the current problem of the Public Enterprise "Matroz" that went into bankruptcy is that workers are not allowed into the factory to take personal items, security has been brought in, which does not allow anyone to enter the factory circle. But one thing is certain is that over a thousand people ended up at the Employment Service, or lost their jobs. Also interesting is the company Mitroka Vendor Industry, which at the time of the sanctions produced valves for the first construction of the world-renowned car brands "Pejo" and "Citroen", but you managed to ruin it, and today there is almost nothing from that company. In Sremska Mitrovica, the meat industry "Mitros" worked very successfully in the previous period, which did not need CEFTA to be competitive on the world market, because only the name and brand "Mitros" meant something on the world market. Today, we have nothing from this Mitrovica giant except a large number of employees at the Employment Service. There are about 15,000 workers left in Sremska Mitrovica without a job, but that's why you boast about all your mouths when you're able to hire two or three workers, and I'm asking what's going to happen to these thousands of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5418	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović, then Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is once again in a position to pay dearly for the price of unskilled lessons from the past, because how else do you understand today's CEFTA Agreement on the agenda, which the ruling majority will vote to show that it is ready for European integration and for entry into the European Union, not taking care of the current situation of the economy and Serbian citizens. The CEFTA, as an Agreement on Free Trade of Balkan Countries, imposes much more open rules on the game by equating domestic producers with producers from the country and signatories of the agreement. The importance of excise duty on tobacco products is given to domestic and foreign companies, but to increase customs duties from current 15% to 57% gradually over the next few years, in order to satisfy the Croatian side in this case, as well as to create conditions for countries from the region to be free from customs duty to export their products to Serbia. The collateral effect is that we are the largest country in the region and we have the best connection traffic, which makes us an extremely important partner in the region and interesting for the centre of major global companies. That's the reason for signing this agreement that's being imposed on us. That certain countries in the environment know that they are using the Serbian market, and in this agreement Croatia and Slovenia are even more favourable. According to the number of investments, Slovenia comes first, while at the very top it is right after investors in the tobacco, brewery and cement industry. According to statistics, Slovenia's investments in Serbia amount to 500m euros, ending in 2006. But these investments are significantly higher because of the contracted investment obligations of the company and are exceeding 700m euros orientatively. Today, over 300 Slovenian companies were opened in Serbia, while only two Serbian companies managed to open their representations in Slovenia, which are JAT and 'Dalas'. Has our government done anything to help our businesses break into other markets, at least as many vouchers have been done by Slovenian authorities. It should be examined whether of the 300 Slovenian companies that exist in Serbia have behaviours similar to those that appear to be common for business in their country, i.e. non-compliance with the law and resorting to the concentration of para-state capital. That is why Slovenia is making political decisions not to allow Serbian capital to enter Slovenia and therefore no Serbian firm works in Slovenia. Croatia sees its chance in the CEFTA programme agreement, to allow companies to participate in the competition for large construction jobs in the process of public procurement and the placement of their products. So far, in the CEFTA signatories, public procurement has had the advantage of public enterprises from countries that are discussing public advertising for the performance of large construction works. The benefit to national companies should be abolished after the transitional period. Where's our chance, our companies, to be competitive, when they didn't have the support of the state in the previous period? Time has made them technologically stagnant, lag behind, and are not in a position to be more competitive with their product quality and to survive on such a market. It should not be forgotten that the CEFTA agreement on the market covers 30 million inhabitants, that it also carries fierce competition, both on the domestic market and in the placement of our goods in the region. Serbia's economy in the process of competing in conditions for all producers will not be competitive, and the agreement itself will lead to an unspeakable situation for it to lose its position on the domestic market. That is why the agreement, currently, is not favourable for Serbia and should not be signed for reasons that the Serbian economy has also been in the conditions that it had done business in the past, so that it would not have any special importance in some future period by signing this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5420	Thank you. The People's Messenger Predrag Stošić has the word, and let Božidar Delic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to destroy the Serb economy with the conclusion of this agreement. The signing of a free zone of trade agreement should contribute to increasing the volume of markets and attracting new investments in all signatories. Also, unifying the market and liberating other customs duties on imports of goods gives investors an opportunity to choose. In such a market game, where Serbia has no strong production capacity due to the consequences of the transition and your poor government, with weak infrastructure and poor supply of accompanying services, with legislation that cannot support this kind of international agreement, it is logical to conclude that investors will choose an environment country to invest, using this agreement exclusively for the placement of their products on our market. This release of Serbia's market to countries in the region will also put the tobacco industry market at risk, calling into question and respect for agreements with foreign companies "Philip Morris" and BAP, which automatically makes Serbia's poor recommendation to other investors. These companies are located in southern central Serbia, where the unemployment rate is the highest, and they employ a large number of people. This agreement wide opens the door to the Croatian tobacco industry, primarily from Rovinj, which will represent a great competition for the companies mentioned and certainly lead to the layoff of a number of workers, and will negatively affect farmers involved in tobacco production. Therefore, the CEFTA agreement on our economy, as well as the economy, can have an exclusively negative impact, because we cannot keep quiet about the fact that in a country like ours, with such an economy and a small economy without development, with a high corruption rate, a large bureaucratic apparatus, there must be mechanisms to protect against competition. The fact is that competition in a healthy market is the basis for progress, but this kind of competition will have a devastating impact on Serbia's economy. By doing so, the signing of the CEFTA agreement for Serbia represents putting a noose around the neck of the already fallen manufacturing industry and continuing the collapse of the economic system, with job losses and the fall of citizens' standards. This agreement will only benefit Croatia and Slovenia, which is not a member of the Agreement, and are already being re-represented on the Serbian market. Given the fact that they have put forward their position on the Kosovo and Metohija status solutions, they should not be able to establish any co-operation with them. But as we are witnessing that no one in this country cares about its future and economy, this will be the further economic breakdown of the Republic of Serbia by this incompetent government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5422	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5423	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I will briefly say a few more elements in favour of the position of the SRS that it is not necessary to accept and ratify the CEFTA Agreement. My predecessors have already said about which countries have already ratified this Agreement. The very fact that both Kosovo and Metohija, as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is within the agreement is sufficient to avoid accessing its ratification. However, I would like to say something about another country currently based in CEFTA, which means Croatia and is based in Zagreb. You were able to read in the press in recent months that the property of Serbs from Croatia that was taken away, destroyed or remained in Croatia's territory, worth about $50 billion. When it comes to the military, and when it comes to military housing, I'll bring out the information here. With 50,000 apartments being spoken today, only military apartments in the Republic of Croatia were 41 thousand. According to the "Evening List" of September 29, 2004, out of 41 thousand apartments, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia sold 36,000 apartments at the time. Only on this basis does the Republic of Croatia owe about 2.5 billion euros. It is also known that the competent ministers for the issue of refugees and exiled citizens from the Republic of Croatia, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH in the presence of international organisations in Sarajevo adopted a declaration on January 31st 2005, with the conclusion that by the end of 2006, the issues of refugees and exiled citizens were resolved. To inform you that our representative, Mr Dragisa Dabetic, published in "News" on 3 December 2005, stated that there was no signing of this declaration precisely because the Republic of Croatia did not want to accept its obligation to make up for the monetary equivalent of the former members of the military, retired military persons and active military persons. In fact, it's all part of the scenario, because the only thing that was not allowed in the Republic of Croatia to come to the purchase of military apartments, because probably those who planned secession in the Republic of Croatia knew that private property in Europe, even in the whole world, was unimpeached. As a result, they did not allow, as was the case in other republics of the former SFRY, to buy apartments and thus put these citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a position that they could no longer reach their property. Yesterday, Mr. Minister here also spoke about the importance of our exports and imports into the former Yugoslav republics, which are also signatories to this agreement. I would now, using data, a monthly statistical review from the Republic Statistics Institute of Serbia, present data for January and February. Our exports to these CEFTA members amounted to $198.8m, and our imports amounted to $138.3m. So that relationship that Mr. Minister brought here yesterday just doesn't stand. It is much more important to see what the structure of the export of goods from the Republic of Serbia is in general, so I will only say the shortest amount in millions of dollars. The meat fresh in these two months was exported $2.9 million, corn 13.3 million, frozen raspberries 10.5 million, sugar refined 5.9 million, oil refined 4.8 million, drugs 10 million, polyethylene 5.3 million. New outer tyres for cars, but right now let me tell you that it's not a Serbian product, it's a company that's already sold, 13.2 million. Suit hangers, e, this must be a Serbian product, then, paper, cardboard, hot-rolled iron products. This is believed to be a product from Serbia, you know it is "Sartid" and that Serbia is hardly benefiting from it. Then, rolled products coated with potassium, copper and products of copper, slabs, limes and alloys of aluminium, wooden furniture of 33 million, clothing, shoes of 15 million, brooms, brushes of plant material, which is also the product at the technological level that Serbia today has. As for imports, coke and coke products 18 million, crude oil 82 million, electricity 25 million, drugs 29 million, cosmetic products 12 million, and only soap and preparations for cleaning 10 million, fertilizer 17.9 million, paper 36 million, bars and profiles of 19 million steel, copper products 13 million, aluminum products 33 million, free metal products 13 million. Then, automatic data processing machines 19.7 million, telecommunications equipment 36.9 million, passenger cars 30 million, freight cars 15 million, clothes 22 million and shoes 16.7 million. I took this out, gentlemen, just so you know what level Serbia is at today's technological level. What does Serbia export? From what I've said, you've seen it's just raw materials and semi-products. Serbia once exported only meat, exported brooms and exported wood in the 19th century. Now in the 21st century, we've practically come to the same level. I didn't want to bring data to Slovenia here, but all this data that I've brought out before my colleagues is not complete, because these statistics do not include those products that companies from Slovenia and Croatia, which are bought by our companies, are placed here in Serbia and are considered Serbian products. This statistics would be far more devastating for Serbia if we had that data.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5424	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You used your time, you used 20 minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5425	Mr. President, don't experience this with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but with one specific question that, because of the insatiableness of the government's representatives, deserves to be asked in this way. The CEFTA agreement, which we have been talking about for two days, leaves me in doubt, whether UNMIK is on behalf of Kosovo and Kosovo's treatment, not Kosovo and Metohija as a special state, in some way verified by this agreement. I have a dilemma because all the time in the negotiations on the implementation of the Free Trade Agreement several years ago, resulting in this document, the state of Serbia and as Serbia-Montenegro have insisted on including a clause on the temporaryity of the Kosovo and Metohija Agreement. It was proposed to join that part of the Agreement as an annex to the Serbia-Montenegro Agreement. The way this is marked, as defined as Annex 3.6 of previous Montenegro, 3.7 Serbia, 3.8 Kosovo, gives me the right to claim from this speaker and to express my concern that Kosovo has been treated here under UNMIK's protection as a special state, which in fact prejudges the status of Kosovo and Metohija. I ask you, as the government's authority, to explain why the earlier proposals on the temporary treatment of Kosovo and Metohija and to attach all that concerns that part of Serbian territory respected as an annex in Serbia have already been given as an independent, as if it were already a declared independent state. Please and I insist on that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5426	I am concluding a unique search of the bill. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality in the voting day. I have an obligation to read Article 4. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The amendment says Article 4 is changing and it reads: "This law takes effect on the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON DUVAN (principles) You have received the proposal submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate, according to parliamentary groups, is as follows: Serbian Radical Party – 1 hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; Democratic Party – 1 hour, 16 minutes 48 seconds; Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus – 22 minutes, 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 19 minutes, 12 seconds; Parliament's Group "Liberal Democratic Party" – 13 minutes 12 seconds, Manjina parliamentary group – 7 minutes, 12 seconds, MEP Group - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is a National MP, Jorgvanka Tabakovic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5427	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments to the tobacco law. The tobacco law regulates a very important area from an economic point of view, as it is a branch that employs about 130,000 people when viewed as a whole chain of production, processing and finally trade. Also, over the past two, three years, significant funds have been invested in this branch, estimated to have invested about a billion euros in this branch. In that sense, this law is very important. The current processes that take place in the region require that the existing law be changed, and I would like to point out, as is known, that intensive changes occur in the region. We already have three countries from the environment that are members of the EU. Most other countries or we have a candidate and we have countries that have signed the Association Agreement, and our country is on that path. Also, most of the countries in the environment are members of the world trade organisation. Therefore, it is obvious that our country's path is also the path of the region. This is the direction of the EU and before that, the direction of the world trade organisation, even before signing the CEFTA ratification relationship, which you had the opportunity to consider within the previous point. On the basis of all this, the amendments to the tobacco law are proposed. These changes are not very big, but they are significant, the proposal is that they contain three certain directions, firstly, they are given in the direction of simplifying the administration related to tobacco, and secondly, related to the precise definition of the ransom obligations and finally to the precision of various definitions, for example processed tobacco, etc. The aim of this law on amendments to the tobacco law is to create an opportunity to raise the competitiveness of domestic producers and facilitate the face-to-face of the challenges, respecting the integrations already under way. By completing this opening statement, given that the law is relatively small, there are only 10 members, I would like to invite you to vote and support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5428	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP, Jorvanka Tabaković, and then Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5429	It really wasn't unusual to put together a debate about the tobacco law and the CEFTI law, because these are the two sides of the same problem that is here before us, but it's unusual that you tried to shorten our time of argument. Unfortunately, unfortunately, and fortunately for us, you did not have enough votes to do so, so now you will give citizens the opportunity to hear why CEFTA was mentioned in public only for the compensation of what is called 'domestic tobacco producers', and for the story of entering integration, about entering the hall that Erhard Busek, without any shame and shame, called 'training camp' and recommended that we enter the training camp for European integration. I have a fundamental objection to the story of the positive effects of entering the CEFT. As an EU lobby, although the CEFTI Agreement itself says that a member of the 51st defines the sustainability of this contract for an indefinite period of time, the story of a promised paradise that we should enter, called the EU, is not that it is very far away, but is also very uncertain. If you believe in the argument presented by the Serbian Radicals for two days and you want to say that there are benefits that exceed the damage, I want to bring the data to the general Serbian public, I am counting on you from the relevant place. I will give you just a few sentences from the conclusion of the author of Olivier Lamoto, he is the researcher of the economic centre in Sorbonne from the University of Paris and the essence of his text called "Traffic Integration in Southeast Europe. ''If you don't trust Serbian radicals that the question is whether there is a benefit that can overcome the damage resulting from these integrations, I will only give you two sentences. The formal liberalisation of trade could result in increased lobbying of EU producers to establish non-tariff barriers, which in turn could have a negative impact on exports from Western Balkan countries to the EU. This primarily refers to the sector of agricultural and food products, so that the effects of these countries' entry into regional co-operation will be zero. The question is whether anyone was willing to calculate the adverse consequences without just tobacco producers. So I repeat as a basic conclusion, CEFTA, the trade agreement is, in fact, part of a political game in which it is called the Assembly to ratify Serbia's decision to join the EU. Ratifikati means making a commitment to the state and ensuring the time consistency of such a decision, so that some future government does not make a different decision. That different decision could be made right now if you had a little more professional honor that in the bill of law and the effects it will give you did not write what I quoted yesterday by talking about CEFTI, which is worth repeating. When asked yourself whether the positive consequences of lawmaking are such that they justify the costs that he will generate, the answer to the question that you have asked yourself is: ''they are such that they do not cause additional costs of economic operators, whose activity is prescribed by the provision of this law. The use is such that it doesn't cause extra costs.' Really, every comment on this is too much. It is personal and offensive for me that you question the intelligence of the MPs by passing the bill, the reasoning and the provisions that are being amended on the 23rd page, so it comes down to Article 29. Article 29 says those who want to deal with the production and trade of tobacco no longer have to buy 50% of domestic tobacco production from domestic producers. It's the essence of this law, and you've made it huge by simply changing the wording of "fermentized tobacco" in the whole text of the law. So you gave a different sentence set – means fermented tobacco and then changed it in the whole text of the law to make it look like some kind of over-proposal. To be honest, there's another small newspaper where at the manufacturer's request you make it easier to keep track of the reports they give. So, the CEFTA Agreement, which is indistinguishable from the tobacco law, produces the consequences that the state of Serbia needs to bear by depriving, and that is the meaning of this law, the producer of tobacco by the foreign company, to which you sold the domestic tobacco industry in 2003, interpreting it as a business of a decade and hiding from the public that the market and the benefits they had from that protection were protected, in fact the lower price of the sale that you gave them in such a privatisation process. World companies that advocate free trade and competition, but when buying tobacco industry asked for such protection, that they could not, which is a problem today, Croatian tobacco producer Rovinj, create competition or anyone else. You boasted of a good price, and in fact you allowed them to make a profit. On whose burden? On the burden of customers and on the burden of citizens buying cigarettes and on the burden of national income, i.e. excise duty, which is once again at an extreme distance to the burden of citizens. You knew in 2003 when you sold them the tobacco industry, that they had already launched initiatives to conclude free trade agreements, and these conditions gave to the tobacco industry were in fact challenging the CEFTI Agreement. Very consciously, you weren't surprised by CEFTA. The basic principles of the World Trade Organisation are well-known and you have knowingly entered into a breach of competition rules, in the rules of market availability and explaining your success in sales, then, in 2006, arguing among yourselves whether the budget will be damaged by entering CEFTA, which we are forced to do for political reasons, openly saying that it is important for the political stability of the country and in fact we will have to, when Mr. Eugenio Sidoli, then the director of the tobacco factory, says: "If this state thinks it is strong enough to pay compensation from more than one billion euros to us who are promised protection by 2009. '" Dinkic says, at the time, ''can CEFTA, but the budget cannot suffer. ''Tell me, is it possible and possible, except in a television commercial, to get both goats and money, it can do so only in advertising for the gullible. Would you like to explain to us who lost tobacco producers here, who today boasted that they were ours and who then gave a good price by buying these factories, allegedly investing, not allegedly, but really, a billion euros, but if they were damaged by the signing of CEFTE and equating conditions in this area, did they very quietly agree to have their pockets cut and to leak out of it that planned profit that was the element when they decided to enter our market. I know the answer, but I want to hear it from you. I want that answer to be worthy of the intelligence of the MPs and of all citizens of Serbia and of those who voted for you. When you say we should participate in integrations and when we all advocate world free trade flows, do you ever want to admit to the citizens what that free trade looks like in the world and in practice? No, you won't, but that's why I'm going to say that Mr. George Bush, one of the economic freedoms advocates of 2003, publicly introduced quotas on women's laundry and dress imports made in China, and by introducing high customs duties on imports of steel and steel products, of which he had to give up in 2005, as he lost the dispute in front of the World Trade Organisation under the pressure of the European Union. Meanwhile, the domestic economy has been given a break for a year, as much as it has led the dispute, for domestic steel workers to recover. Would you ever be able to do that for domestic production and for the people who work here? Some subsidy regimes and assistance to domestic production are so perfidious and hard-core that they have led to unimaginable borders, here, when it comes to a large and strong state like America. I believe that you, Mr. Minister, must know about the 1989 case when the U.S. government stopped importing 30,000 pairs of shoes from Indonesia, with an explanation that a spare pair of shoelaces was packed in a shoebox and no quota was prescribed for them. By the law, the dispute lasted a year until Indonesian producers returned their shoes to their destination, and America passed a regulation that allowed a spare pair of shoelaces to be packed in a shoebox, but if it was put into shoes and if it is in a color that matches the shoes that are in the boxes. So large and powerful countries protect their domestic production. They protect them, even when they face disputes with the World Trade Organisation, which are witnessed by penalties paid in a gypsum cartel, such as "Lafarg" here, for cartel behaviour, has already twice paid fines of over 120m euros. When it comes to tobacco production in Italy in October, four tobacco producers were fined 56m euros, as they agreed over a period of more than six years on the buying-in price of tobacco with associations of growers and agreed in advance on the prices they would offer in competitions for public procurement of tobacco. The European Union, as a market for free competition, is in fact a perfect behind the curtain to protect its tobacco producers, knowingly and able to face penalties, unlike you, which, in contrast to you, is a criterion that is respected in this great world, you want to introduce them first into the World Trade Organization with an explanation. I repeat, the principle of KFV Bank, the domestic German export-funded development bank, is a commendation for reputation. And we need to behave like that and start a development bank, start a farm development bank and finance exports, but how when you destroyed banks and how you agree to be a polling ground for other people's goods, which is CEFTA and what we're talking about today is what we're talking about. One of the objectives of CEFTE and this law that we are talking about today is to balance the relationship between imports and exports with countries in the region. You heard Mr. Dinkic yesterday that these countries are participating in exports and when it comes to 30%. He gave false information about imports, that 8%, data vary from 14% to 20%. One of the few regions with which we have a surplus in foreign trade is the CEFTE area. And you now with CEFTO, where the legitimate goal is to balance imports, exports, you want to disable our economy, and we have problems thousands and one in the monetary sphere, by letting that surplus that we're making get closer to those countries in our market. The only place where we have a positive plus-minus bill, export-import, you agree, starts with the tobacco industry and beyond, that this economy that you don't lend and that you don't subsidize, that you subsidize foreign investors and newly opened jobs. You subsidize foreign investors, new jobs, no subsidy laws, the regulation gives away funds to create new jobs. We have completely mixed pots of what is a state here, what is domestic production and what is our European future. It's really not right to say that we haven't given you any data as to how much damage a law like this makes. It's really incorrect to say that we don't have an alternative. To be clear, every region, even though it has a fundamental economy, is actually political. As much as it helps countries within the region, it is so targeted that those outside the region actually sanction and make them enter the region, respecting rules that are always more harmful or less good for the weaker. It's a simple rule, but you can't say there's no alternative. You can't say that free trade is the free movement of goods, capital, services, not people. Well, isn't this the reason to mention that we're only getting those who have gone away in time, making up that they haven't been well in this country and that we don't know what we're going to do with them and that there are still lines in front of the embassy?- I'm sorry. What you're saying is that non-tariff barriers don't matter. Yes, very much. What about the transport permits? What about the visas for the drivers and the ones that need to export our goods to that big world? You're saying we don't have a chance to co-operate with big countries. Our future is that we are working with countries where this cost called spatial distance will be replaced by what is called compatible production, where we are not going to confront our neighbours about having the same economic structure, but also with the CEFTE countries where we are going to argue not only about tobacco, which you are trying to solve in this way, but also about who will agree to offer better conditions to foreign investors so that foreign direct investment will focus on our country. I really want to say that integrations are important, but not integrations where you are not telling the truth about their economic background, not integrations that mean obedience, not integrations that mean losing already acquired positions, and you are trying to present it with some new success or even benefits for this economy. I really think that the geopolitical sense of CEFE for the first consequence has negative consequences in the employment industry, somewhere you say 130,000 people, around 110,000 people in the tobacco industry. But the consequences of the application will be visible, only then will the citizens be able to understand all the rightness of the good side of which you today, with very little words, I admit, are talking about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5430	Thank you. I've been setting a break for an hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours. The word will be delivered by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5431	People's MPs, we continue to work in the afternoon session. Word came through, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5432	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for violation of Rule 226 of this Rules of Procedure. I would like to read you names, which may mean nothing to you first, Veljko Cicmil, Borislav Musikić, Zoran Simicevic, Branislav Sekulić, Dijana Kovacevic and Miroslav Kovac. It is six dangerous criminals and offenders, who are, behold, a miracle manager, a municipal LDP in Vrbas, and the other five are members of the municipality's LDP organisation in Vrbas. What these dangerous offenders and law-breeders have done. On 16 April, as in the other 100 cities and municipalities in Serbia, together with citizens blocked traffic for five minutes, from five to twelve, as a sign of protests over attacks on journalist Dejan Anastasivic. What's the result of that bombing on Time Journalist? The perpetrators were not discovered, because Jocic's police believe that he probably dropped bombs on himself, or planted bombs under his window, but Jocic's police brought in LDP activists in Vrbas for doing the same thing we did in more than 100 municipalities and cities in Serbia, along with citizens. They stopped traffic for five minutes and thus protested the absence of a wish by Jocic's ministry to discover the perpetrators of the bombing. There, it's been 100 days of government. A hundred days of government where the police minister is again Mr. Jocic. What happened? They have detained and filed criminal charges against six people who have stopped traffic, instead of dealing with a gang of road robbers, headed by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who did not block the road but for the Horgos-Požega highway, gave a concession on him. We all know what's been going on these past months. I would also like to congratulate you from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that is, your minister of justice who has implemented all his promises of judicial reform in this way, indeed very quickly handled this process. I'm sure there's nothing to apologize to the judge for the misdemeanors sent by our activists, who were in front of the court today, not to protest in front of the court, but to go to the police station. This is another attempt to stifle human rights and freedom in our country and another proof that Kostunica's government and its ministers, such as Jocic and Petrovic, are experiencing their job. We're not going to chase criminals and murderers, but we're chasing and judging those who are protesting because we're not doing our job right and because we're not effective. Gentlemen Ministers, first of all from the Democratic Party, I would be ashamed of myself if I were you. It is clear that Mr Kostunica or Prime Minister Kostunica returned Serbia in the 1990s, but we really did not expect you to sit there quietly and watch, and listen, and let Serbia approach Europe in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5433	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Marash. People's MP Mika Vlaovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5434	Mr. Maras, leave the police to do their job as they do in every country and leave Vojislav Kostunica, because if it wasn't for Vojislav Kostunica, there would be no LDP. Your president would never have finished college if the opposition led by Vojislav Kostunica on October 5th, no Milosevic would have taken off, regardless of what you're all drilling into the chest if you were in this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5435	Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5436	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Article 104. I think Mr. Mika Vlaovic has to explain to us what's relevant to October 5th and the fact that someone graduated from college. You didn't pass the exam in front of the Federal Assembly. I realized that there was no name of Vojislav Kostunica at the head of a pig gang, some, probably Mr. Maras knows, I don't know who you meant, would not have been able to finish college. Excuse me, please, why did you arrest those in Kragujevac? Why didn't you arrest Vojislav Kostunica? You can see that he made it possible for the university to end up in a relationship. How much money did Vojislav Kostunica take to graduate from college. Please don't confuse us. I thought it was only when the DSS was in the government and it was about those members of the DSS sitting in the government. But I can see that this is chronic. Please come out and explain to us here whom Vojislav Kostunica, with his name on the DOS list, has made it possible for another pustularist to finish college, and Jocic has not arrested him and has not sent him to Smederevo. I didn't even understand who was finishing college on October 5th in front of the Federal Assembly. If the practical part of that exam was arson, then he should go to jail. So, the prison that he was working on, he went to jail because he ended up in a college relationship. Mr. Marash, this has nothing to do with you. I ask Mr. Mike Vlaovic to either apologize, or explain to us because when we heard what Mr. Mika Vlaovic said, we get the impression that the greatest democratic principle is the passing of the relationship exam. You boast that your president has made it possible for someone to graduate. Explain what money, what amount of oil to burn the Federal Assembly, how much he destroyed the ballots to prove he's finished, that he's capable of getting a degree. You from the DSS very rarely report, but when you come in with two three sentences, you open up so much confusion to the public, that citizens simply ask for information. Come out, explain! If you can't explain, Mr. Mrkonjic, formulate this as a question for Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, to tell us what the accuracy of what Mr. Mika Vlaovic said from this assembly pay phone is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5437	Okay, thank you. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, replica Slobodan Maras, and replica Mr Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5438	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, also Article 226, you see this as a complement to what counterpart Maras said and as some sort of response to the discussion of MP Vlaovic that he had before us. He said, or said the police should let him do his job. Unfortunately, the police aren't doing their job. When the son of a Democratic Party official in Nis is massacred by hooligans and when his life is put at risk, neither the media nor the Democratic Party reacts to this because, for God's sake, the idylls between the DSS and the DS should be violated. Only the Liberal Democratic Party held a press conference on the occasion. On the other hand, the same police when the activists of the Liberal Democratic Party reverse Nazi symbols on the municipality, the red cross, the police can bring them in and can write criminal charges against them, and fine them, for they have violated public order and peace for God's sake by blocking the Nazi symbols that someone has written in the form of graphite. So much for letting the police do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5439	Thank you, Mr. Rangelovic. People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5440	I volunteered for the replica, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on what Mr. Mika Vlaovic said. Police whose head is Minister Dragan Jocic is not doing his job. He doesn't do his job right, he doesn't catch those who put bombs on the press, he brings in those who protest because they don't do their job. Police are not bringing in those criminals, a gang of road robbers who give concessions on the highway from Horgos to Požega, but are bringing in those who stopped traffic for five minutes, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5441	Thank you very much. National MP Mika Vlaovic, replica to Mr Krasic, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5442	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Krasic, on October 5th, it wasn't a coup, it was an election victory that the authorities didn't respect, so the people pressed to respect it. It wasn't Vojislav Kostunica who let Ceda Jovanovic pass, it was the fact that after October 5th, and I don't know how.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5443	National MP Borko Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Miss Milena Stankovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5444	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 says, "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Namely, individual representatives of the Liberal Democratic Party to the government of the Republic of Serbia, elected by the Assembly by the majority of MPs' votes, are calling the gang of road robbers. They say it's Jocic's police, and that's not Jocic's police, it's the police of the Republic of Serbia, so it's my police, yours and the states of all these citizens. If someone has shown in the past three years that he has fought crime and corruption, it has just been shown by police during Dragan Jocic's ministry. There have never been so many mafias arrested in Serbia's history as has been arrested in the past three years. Never! When you talk about bombings, I invite you to let the investigative authorities do their job. Several times, the police director said that all the authorities are working to shed light on the case. I wish you'd been such a custodian and protested by those mobsters, with whom you hung out, a bomb was dropped on the premises of the Democratic Party of Serbia to try to intimidate us in our fight for democracy and the creation of modern Serbia. If you have the same arches now for your supporters, such arches should always be for all political parties regardless of whether they are on the side of the position or opposition and for all the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5445	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. National MP Milena Stankovic, then Krasic, and Mrs Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5446	The Liberal Democratic Party strongly condemns every bombing, and we've always done it so far, so we're working in this case. So, whether it's the DSS, the SRS that has broken the windows in Zemun, and we know that and we strongly condemn it, because it's also an attack on political freedoms in this country. But, colleague Ilic, I must answer your thesis that the police are not Jocic's. It is the police of Jocic, and the thesis also speaks in favour of what happened this summer at the police station. In fact, a group of police officers, a group of inspectors, dared to make criminal charges against Kostunica's tycoon group, are primarily referring to Mr. Bojan Lazarevic and that company gathered around him. These people who dared to do so suffered terrible consequences. They were either out of work or retired or transferred to the ministry in Lazarec or elsewhere. That's inadmissible. The Liberal Democratic Party has reacted to this this year. What message did you send, or your minister, and your government, what message did you send to the employees of the MUP? That there are criminals who are untouchable and those we can arrest, or that police officers should not act on their consciences and evidence but as they are told to do? Here is the minister, and he's probably bored because we're talking about some things that have nothing to do with what he's come here for, but I have to point out that the government and Minister Jocic have provided clear support, despite all the evidence, the bosses over the bosses in this country, the head of the tobacco mafia, Mr Miskovic, therefore, despite all the evidence, and this is evidence that Minister Jocic is actually fully controlled by the police, and the police are not protecting the interests of the citizens but the interests of your tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5447	Thank you. Mr. Krasic according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Pesic, Mr. Maras, the replica of Mr. Borko, then Mr. Borko, the replica of Miss Milena. Since Mr. Borko is a little taller, so I can't stand up to him, let's give him our word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5448	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that my colleague Krasic will not mind, I will. First of all, you should make a deal on whether it's roadside, whether it's tobacco, which is what the mob is talking about here, since obviously you don't know, you've all been very close to, and you're probably close now. During Mr. Jocic's ministry, a police reform law, which depolitised her, was arrested by a bankruptcy mafia, a road mob was arrested, those who were smuggling sugar were arrested, a series of procedures were launched that you were not allowed to touch. If you think that people in this country have amnesia, then you're wrong, because what this Assembly is famous for is that everyone here who used to sit in power remembers what they were doing when they were in that power. No one in the police will answer while the DSS is in power because it's chasing criminals. But the Law on Police and Hierarchy in the Police must be respected as long as the law is respected, and the law will be respected, while the DSS minister will also be fought against crime and corruption, and you will come out and tell who is arrested for corruption and crime while your party's leader was vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or while he was the leader of the ruling majority in this assembly. Nobody, nobody's been arrested! The arrests began the moment when we from the DSS were firmly resolved, and we will continue to be resolved to deal with crime and corruption in this country, which is the biggest evil in Serbia. As long as the minister is someone who will be supported by the DSS, there will also be a fight against crime and corruption. One piece of information for you, Mr. Maras, as you speak, is not from the DSS but from the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5449	Thank you, Borko. Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Mrs. Vesna Pesic, then Miss Milena, then Mr. Free Maras, replica. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5450	Of course, because of what Mr. Mike just said. What's this about? He answered, but it went as a question, so his party president, as a representative of the government, will answer what Mika meant. Mr. Vlaovicu, the rule is that I don't need to convince you of something that's a common known fact. If some facts are made public or in books and a large number of people who make up the public are able to read it, to get this basic knowledge, then it becomes a common known fact that some assumption is true that nothing is touched by it. Who thinks that's not true, he needs to prove that it's not true. So everyone knows October 5th was a coup. I suggest, Mr. Mrkonjic, that you use your authority and all your potentials and capabilities to influence Mr. President of the National Assembly to provide for all MPs a copy of the book of Dragan Bujosevic, second, a copy of Tim Marshall and something new, so that MPs are fully informed, Ms. Florence Artman's latest book, called "Peace and Penalty", with a special commitment to people who are fans of The Hague tribunal. Of course, to share with NGOs that speak of the UN tribunal as independent, impartial court that judges according to international standards, etc. Mrs. Florence Artman described very well in her book how court proceedings are being mounted in The Hague. I would further ask you, and I think that there is also a book translated into Serbian, and also, a certain journalist, I think that Juda's last name, was described by a peto-octobaric coup. Just to remind you, one group was led by Dusan Petrovic of Sapac, the current justice minister, Svilanovic led, from Užica, Velje led from one side, Perisic led from Nis, agreed with these generals now in The Hague, they swore to Covic at his firm, the day before 5 October – victory or death, whatever election results, we are not interested in. These are generally known facts that prove that October 5th was a classic coup. When you tell me that October 5th is the best thing for democracy, that the means of democratic struggle, I just creep out, and when I hear from law professors, philosophers, sociologists to celebrate it, then I'm absolutely sure or that they don't have a mental set to figure out what the system of values is and what morality is, or so much money came from abroad, as Vuk Draskovic said to Dinkic – I know you got money from America. I've got the paperwork, I'll read you everything, and the Resistance and this and that. I'm not saying this because of Mike Vlaovic, he knows who they are, etc., I'm saying this for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He can't lead the public by normal means, by right means, because he can't see the system of values, he doesn't recognize what it's interest, he's falling into individual interests, or he's totally subduing to the boss from abroad. Now to break this up, I'm just letting you know, that boss of that previous government representative on that agenda dropped a 24-hour deadline right now. So we're going to have a large number of collateral victims of behaviour and the work of Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5451	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, please. I don't know if I can get these books, but I'll give it to the president. However, I will present the book to Slobodan Milosevic, personally, each parliamentary group of 10 copies today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5452	Dear MPs and MPs, the LDP really advocates the application of rights in all cases. But the worst is when the right is applied selectively. When it comes to the work of Minister Jocic and his fight against corruption, we are indeed witnessing that this is fully selective. I can tell you that the experiences of some other countries show that, if the fight against corruption is fought selectively, then there is practically one effect that citizens are depressed, that they raise their hands and that they consider politicians, and that this Parliament and all the authorities are not working in the interests of the people, that they work for their own interests and that, in practice, they give up on external means to punish such a power that is combating corruption selectively, when it likes it, and then set up some, it fights them, and there is nothing worse and there is nothing worse than when justice is applied selectively. This case has already been mentioned here, which caused a major public storm, which is when one of the deputy deputies, first of all, retired Belgrade police chief, and then Dragan Svilar, who was deputy chief and two other members of the police team, who filed criminal charges against the EPS mafia and where they filed criminal charges against four senior EPS officials. Many journalists have asked – how did this ever occur in the means of information, what is this all about. Everyone knows, when it comes to EPS, who the tycoons are behind it and, of course, that branch was replaced by these good cops who did their job. I'm just gonna show you what it looked like in public. After a few days, it turns out that these officers who were assigned were allegedly committing some kind of crime. The prosecutor's office asked after that for Dragan Svilara, against whom a nebulous process was launched, the application is complemented because it is unclear what the crime was done in the first place, something from 1999. However, two were versions. One version was that, when it came to four criminal charges against four EPS officials, someone externally manipulated the police, installed the affairs, and it was attached to the fact that someone had mounted the case, as we know, had never been clarified, and this EPS affair, that someone inside had also manipulated the police. I ask you a question -- if some foreign forces have manipulated the police, should the police minister resign if some external forces have manipulated the Serbian police. In that same daily list, the police director who oversees the police said that these four police officers, had nothing to do with this installation on the outside, but that they were some four unemployed who had no good results in three months. In the same number are given two different versions. Is it a fight against corruption or is it an end to the process? Let me mention that the same case was the polling committee, these same congregations, and now you're saying that Minister Jocic has fantastic results in the fight against corruption. The process was suspended because we all know that there were words about Mr Lazarevic, that Jocic was not informed that these four police officers had done their job well and professionally, but had to fire these four police officers, to drive them to Lazarevic and Obrenovac, and the chief of Belgrade's SUP to retire and that the affair fell into the water. That's how you fight corruption. When it comes to Minister Jocic, please, what was the surrender of the Legion, where was that note Mr. Sabic requested, against the law, without a court hearing, when he surrendered?- I'm sorry. He arrived from Zlatibor on a plane to sit down for hours along with Radeta Bulatovic and some others, not to name them here. What does that look like? So, the Dejan Anastasia case, if the police couldn't figure out the case, who put the bomb on that window, what more could she possibly find out. I am truly supporting Slobodan Maraš who said that he is living on some people, some five LDP activists in Vrbas, who are now persecuting for the offense, and this kind of crime that Jocic himself committed, which he has spoken against the law to the Legion and afterwards invented those notes, and the notes were practically not. How ashamed you are to defend such a rule of law and such a fight against corruption!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5453	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Matic, Mr. Ilic, Mrs. Milica, then two replicas of Miss Milena and Mr. Slobodan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5454	I report to the Rules of Procedure to protect the dignity of all MPs. I ask all MPs to refrain from commenting like this. To talk like this without proof, to say something that certainly offends the reputation of institutions, I think it is inadmissible, and even when you hear it from the professors of the university, I think it just shows the motives of those who are constantly defending themselves behind the parole that Serbia is in a hurry, how reform should be done as soon as possible, and here they abuse the pay phone, insult every institution, insult the ministries, the Republic Government, insult Parliament, above all, and ultimately the citizens of Serbia and try to replace the thesis of this Parliament, and that is all at the expense of our citizens. Let the police do their job. Of course there's parliamentary control here, of course there's a Security Committee that needs to think about police work, but let's leave it to professional people, not just political voices to appreciate daily the work of police. I don't think there's any need for insinuation here, no political approach to this subject. We have a fully developed mechanism here that protects citizens from any abuse by the police. I think the division itself allows police work to be controlled. Whenever police start their mechanisms in the fight against crime, there are always voices from this home, as well as from the public, who are trying to challenge such actions. Let's just remember when the bankruptcy case started. The first ones on the payroll and the bankruptcy mafia, of course, to start their own media in the fight for the protection of the rights of some people who have abused their position and won huge money. I would like to ask my LDP colleagues here - give your financial report from the last election campaign, show how your party is financed. Is there any possibility that you in one transparent way, as you like to say, show your funding? Let's see how people who haven't had a huge material gain in a year's work experience have won. How do those overpriced jeeps ride? How is it possible to pay huge security? Explain once to this public. Don't let every time the police start doing their job to get out here and yell at some criminals, who are supposed to have their epilogue at the end and in court. So I ask all MPs to return to the basic subject. You're saying yourself you're trying to get Serbia into CEFTA as soon as possible. Let's allow our vote by September 28th to join the Joint Committee and see what this reform of our country's economic and economic system means, and not just in this way, to waste our time in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5455	Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure. I am informing the MPs that the National Assembly will extend the work and after 18.00 hours at the starting point of the agenda until the debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5456	Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I appreciate your age, I appreciate your sense of humor, I appreciate the way you run this assembly, I appreciate you being a gentleman, but I really don't appreciate you giving words to those who are taller than you. It's really not right. (President: I apologize, Mr. Marash. ) Mr. Ilic, yes, I did the lapus, I said the DSS, and I meant the DS, or Mr. Petrovic, when I talked about that he promised to carry out reforms in the judiciary. However, I must remind you, you just said what the Director of Police said. The police director said there were indications that Mr. Anastasiaević staged the bombing under his window. When I said Minister Jocic and Jocic's police, of course, I meant Kostunica, and I really think it's Kostunica's police. She should be the police, as you said, of all citizens of this country, mine, yours, and all of us alike. But police who, under Kostunica and Jocic's orders, selectively enforce laws and comply with the laws cannot be the police of all citizens. You're not after those who plant bombs, you're chasing those who are protesting because the police are ineffective. Also, police in Novi Sad approved a rally of neo-Nazis, October 7th, in front of a monument that was violently placed. Mr. Matic, I'd like you to show how much DSS has used money from the Serbian state budget in the last campaign. That's what I'd like you to give us for insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5457	Mrs. Milena Stankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, answer to Mr. Matic. The LDP submitted its financial report in time. If you'd been interested, you could have seen it. It's a public document and it's available to everyone. What's also the fact about all this is that LDP is still paying off its commitments to local televisions with which we concluded the campaign contract, so much for that, about some of the big money LDP has. The LDP is a party of responsible members who take care of it and who finance it. I know it may be unusual for you here, interesting and amazing, but it really is. That's why we have managers whose essential function is, not the presidents of the municipal boards, but the managers of the municipal boards, because they also care about the financial sustainability of their committees. As for Mr. Ilic, I'd have to answer. Here, Mr. Ilicu, as Serbia's MUP does. Serbia's MUP is working so that it looks like something very important is happening, and it's not really dealing with a central but peripheral problem. Here, for example, arresting a professor in Kragujevac is again a very current topic. You remember when it happened, in a period when the current ruling majority was still unable to agree on what the government would look like. Then you arrested those professors, so you took pictures of them, took pictures of them, and talked about them all and everything, like the Law Faculty in Kragujevac was the only institution in which there was corruption and it was the only college in which there was corruption. Now what? People are released. What's very important is that you actually abuse the media in your work, without essentially solving anything, because here, for example, none of these mafias we're talking about now, bankruptcy and roadside, were convicted, and on the charges both started to function in 2004. Mr. Ilic, who was in power then? Your prime minister and your government. You should be responsible for acting like this, for having such a relationship with crime in this country, which means resignations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5459	National MP Borko Ilic, then Ms. Milica Markovic, then Mr. Batic and then I hope to move to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5460	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first thing anyone sitting in these benches should know is that there is something that has been called by Monteskje in modern democracies since Monteskje to divide power into executive, legislative and judicial. Therefore, it does not release the police of anyone accused of a criminal offence, but it releases the court, and when we talk about the Kragujevac case, the court has released the defendants, not all of them, but those whom the court thought could defend from freedom, and those who are accused as leaders, the organisers of all that in Kragujevac are still in prison and will defend themselves from prison, that is one thing. When did the mobs come into existence? It doesn't matter. Crime and corruption have always been and always will be. There is no society without crime, there is no society that is without corruption, and the idea of the DSS and the values that we advocate are fighting corruption. Exactly, plus for the government of Vojislav Kostunica is that during that government, a road mob was arrested, no matter when it was created. It has absolutely nothing to do with whether something came up in 2001, 2003, 2007, it's important when they're in jail, and these people are in jail thanks to police action, the prosecution and other state authorities. The length of the proceedings and when the proceedings will be completed shall be decided by the judicial authorities and it shall be called the division of the authorities. The prosecution, the police are doing their job, handing the case over to the court, and the court is still deciding whether someone is guilty or not. This is guaranteed by the Constitution and the law and the basic principles of how modern democratic states and modern democratic societies function and so is today in Serbia. It was during Vojislav Kostunica's construction of institutions that began in this country. There is no selective fight against crime, from Bogoljub Karic, through the road mafia, the customs mafia, the bankruptcy mafia. Everyone in prison will continue to fight, and I have not yet received an answer to the question of who you arrested when you were in power, as far as crime and corruption are concerned, or perhaps there was no crime and corruption. That's what you're trying to convince the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5461	Mrs. Milica Markovic, then Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5462	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I only answered to say a few things. I have to realize that I understand how this kind of anger and rage is directed at the police of Serbia, but I belong to those who love facts very much, because when I talk about facts, then we can throw down the water. Now, let's talk facts. As well as anyone in Serbia knows, the educational mafia is closed. By the way, I have one more thing to say. The lady who spoke from the LDP said they were released. No, they were allowed to defend themselves from freedom. So what the police did was enough for them to be charged. Then, construction, traffic, tobacco, customs, bankruptcy, affairs, one, the other, solved. Let's talk more about facts. There have been reports from international organisations that have been monitoring the state of corruption in the world and that have been monitoring the state of corruption in this country as well. You know how Serbia, which was assessed by the state of corruption so that it was at the bottom of the scale, was assessed on the latest reports of this organisation – it received three plus. Since I'm a man from school, when I translate three plus into the language you understand, that's a very good grade. By the way, gentlemen, I'm very surprised that you who have so much evidence don't know which evidence to refer to. Parliament is not that institution. I once again spoke of such things not being given to Parliament, gentlemen. If you need it in particular, I am prepared to explain to you later where it is given, in order to certainly contribute to the fight against corruption. I have to say one more time. I'm falling into those who are absolutely certain that this fight is not selective, and I'm afraid that's exactly what's bothering you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5463	Mr. Vladan Batic, then Mr. Free Maras, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5464	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only relate to the previous discussion, but through what is the subject of today's agenda, which is the Law on Tobacco, because it is also tied to a mafia, a tobacco mafia. I think today this law, I said yesterday, represents Mladjan Dinkic in the name of the government, because he is part of the tobacco mafia, and I filed a criminal report about it, and I am not going to stick around, because he was connected to Japan Tabako because he opened the Japan Tabako factory, because at the cost of "Japan Tabaka" he was driving a scroll and a camel of journalists on a trip to Japan when the IMF was here and led those difficult negotiations with the IMF in September 2005. I don't want to mention names from exotic islands, a Lebanese who is the main promoter of Japan Tabaka in Southeast Europe, I don't want to mention some of the characters from Kosovo and Metohija, I don't want to mention a criminal organization that has been looking for money in Cyprus, and was also a promoter of Japan Tabaka and was paid by the same people to compromise Zoran Djindjic and his government, because they burned cigarettes and fought the tobacco mafia. That fight against the tobacco mafia today is selective. How are you gonna convince me she's not selective? Then why wasn't Miroslav Miskovic arrested? His company Hemslade was also trading tobacco. There's written evidence of that. No, because he's one of the government's favorites, one of the sponsors, the donor, or let's call whatever we want the current authorities. The same man is actually the creator, the initiator of the bankruptcy mafia. Why? Because he's unhappy about what's been going on at the "C Market" and because he wanted to get back at his partners, colleagues and friends, and that's selective. Why wasn't all those people who were mentioned within the tobacco mafia arrested? Some also helped to escape, those with whom Tijanic had dinner and hung out at cafes in Belgrade, which everyone knew. So Gradimir Nalic, who was his own timely advisor to the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I don't know why, advised his client, Mr. Zivojinovic, the press transmitted it all, to escape and he fled. And no one. Why isn't he arrested, gentlemen? Because there were other motives, interests, and dealings. The man was a member of the Electoral Commission. Let's remember everything, so we don't forget what happened. What happened to stopping the suitcase affair and why didn't it go all the way? Why are the people who discovered the events in the energy mafia being replaced and why is the counterfeited anti-legal property benefit made by harmful contracts again between the government tycoon and the people who led the EPS? Why were retired, removed, suspended and targeted, arrested, arrested, detained inspectors who did their job with honor, responsibly and honestly to expose the spectrum of the energy mafia?- I'm sorry. That's selective justice. It's a selective job. One more thing. Why has the murder of a man never been discovered in the police station of the Sorceress? The paratrooper from the elite paratrooper unit, he's gone, he's killed, he's beaten to death! Do you know what population has the most criminal record? Unfortunately, the police. Get the statistics on the most serious crimes. Not to say, all mobsters who became prominent businessmen overnight and are protected by people who are members of the police, this has happened and is happening everywhere in the world, etc. I don't mean to be malice and malice, but let's not make a big deal out of something that's not true. What happened to the road mob? You boast of the road mafia, and what about the summit of the road mafia, it stands on the one hand in the ministry, i.e. sitting at the Ministry of Infrastructure in the Directorate or the road company, and some of them fled, also, like General Davidovic. Why wasn't he arrested? Well, selective justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5465	Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5466	I'm done. So that's the problem. Instead of showing power, force, and it should never be done with handcuffs, on the front pages, those who are the association of Zoran Djindjic, on the former government, Goran Kljajevic and Rade Terzic, may be freed. That was the same for political purposes. Rade Terzic may be freed, but that image will remain forever in the consciousness of his closest, his children and in the consciousness of the highest people of this country, he will always be a criminal. You can't do that. When the day comes for the arrest of those who have done so, I will personally pledge not to be arrested in front of cameras and handcuffs, to protect their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5467	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is made by the MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Mrs. Milica Markovic according to the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, if you can, Mr. Krasic, skip at least one debater and then answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5468	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we just heard what I have to react to here. First of all, for the public and for the truth. It is true, ma'am, that justice is being carried out here selectively and the police are doing so. You mentioned the bankruptcy mafia and you mentioned Bogoljub Karic. Why did it stop only with them, why didn't the whole package go to the boss of all the mobs, to Mr. Miskovic? You mentioned the road mob and why you didn't keep your job there at what he said, that he told his parents he was stealing, but not so much to steal. You know who that is. You mentioned the tobacco mafia, and again you have made a selective approach to justice. Why didn't you process Mr. Miskovic, who is also on the list. He's the only one who's been missed. The problem is that here is truly selectively handled by the Ministry of Police, or the Home Office. Once again, I will read the names of six great criminals, offenders, who have stopped traffic for five minutes, which are: Veljko Cicmil, Borislav Musikić, Zoran Simacevic, Branislav Sekulić, Dijana Kovacevic, Miroslav Kovac and all members of the LDP. These are the great offenders who stopped traffic for five minutes. And I have to mention one more thing, process those who gave concessions on the highway from Horgos to Požega and who don't give us all the annexes to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5469	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word is Mrs. Milica Markovic. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope Mr. Krasic withdrew. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I didn't pull anything. ) All right. If you didn't pull, then you're next.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5471	By the way, I have another last name. Me, just one finding. Mr Batic has asked us many questions. What made you think that? He's a former justice minister, if I don't remember, and if I remember correctly. I just find it very strange why it asks such a question to all of us in Parliament and the general public. I would expect the former justice minister to say here - all these people are convicted or not convicted, because there was no evidence. So he's like the former justice minister who had to give us answers, not ask us questions. On the other hand, if he concluded and where he got all this evidence, then in the White Book while he was a minister, there was all this evidence for all these people, why nothing was done, Mr. Batic, on that basis. It wasn't Minister Jocic then, but you, as justice minister, had to do your job back then. It seems to me that Serbia today's subsequent mind means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5472	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. My last name Markovic really turns me on, so I'm just saying Mrs. Markovic. Excuse me. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5473	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as the current chairman of this National Assembly session, you are required to take care of the proper application of the Rules of Procedure, but you are particularly obliged to pay attention to what is being said from this payphone and to make as many truths come out for the public. I think Mr. Batic made a big mistake. I was commenting and he bit me in the heart. Mr. Batic, you may not be informed. When you were chasing us as former ministers and writing criminal charges, you didn't get a good look at the paperwork, and if you'd seen that file, you'd know I was pretty well informed about the tobacco mob. Now, I didn't answer because of the tobacco mob, and for the tobacco mob, I'm prepared for this one, neither guilty nor due minister, that's what we're going to do these days. However, Mr Batic, according to a report I received, is said to be "the UN tribunal's investigators in the investigation into the case of the indicted Slobodan Milosevic, have entered most of the accounts in which money was robbed in Serbia". The documents, so now my source has little problem with the Serbian language, prosecutor Carla del Ponte, with the 'd' bit, handed over to the then minister of justice, Vladna Batic, who sent all the documents to the Serbian government. I have no reason to doubt this. I even know that at the prosecution's request, there's a Norwegian, I think there's been a search, etc. I'm sure Mr Batic gave all those reports to the government. But I am absolutely sure that Mr Batic knows very well, and here he hides from the public and needs to go out and say about the pay phone here, who prevented the real truth about Cyprus from being established. I know the answer, he knows, he knows the public in Serbia. A book was published two years ago, right, Batic, where everything was described, and even what Mr Batic opposed, even if Velimir Ilic opposed it. Do you know who was attacked by Velimir Ilic and Batić – Mladjan Dinkic. Mr. Batic, come out and tell me if I'm telling the truth or I'm cheating on the public! Come out and tell me who picked up 86 or 87 packages with original copies of the 1054 order for foreign exchange payments! Who dressed it up in Belgrade, where is it hidden? Mr. Batic, is there any criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic regarding Cyprus? Just to remind you, Mr. Batic, it seems my sources aren't bad, but I have so many papers that I seem to be a little confused.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5474	Let's get some rest and get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5475	Here, Mr. Grouchy, I said it for you, because I knew someone was going to run. It is said, in this way, that criminal charges have been filed against Mr Dinkic. But he's not the only one on criminal charges. I think there's Labus. There are others. I expect Mr Batic to demonstrate his good knowledge of facts and good memory. At that time, the applicants were told criminal charges – there is no criminal record. Why the government won't allow it. When the government unblocks the process, the trial will take place before the court. Now I'm going to tell these DSS guys, and Mr. Batic agrees that all of these are generally known facts that show that legalists forget what the law is. If you're already fighting all the mobs, you've got criminal charges, you've got a criminal review, you've got witnesses' statements, people's been heard, there's documentation, there's books, and the truth can only be a follow-up to criminal proceedings, stopping criminal proceedings and persecuting Mr. Batic and me as slanderers. If you're up to the law, we'll see how the banks are shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5476	Thank you very much. Zharko Obradovic reported on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Mr. Batic wants a word. Is it a replica? Yeah. He's been praising you all along. Why? Like me, Chada yesterday. My boyfriend commended me, so what? Here you go. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5477	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first, let me be responsible for what Mrs. DSS said. So you mentioned why I didn't take justice as a minister, at the time I was a minister of justice, some steps to get some of the mob members arrested and so on. I'll explain it very simply. Because in this government, and I am proud that I was the minister of justice in the government of Zoran Djindjic, I said that three years ago and the time gave me more and more of that right, that this government, regardless of its failures and mistakes, will Serbia make mud and time will only show it, but I was the minister of justice who did not arrest people, who never called on one prosecutor, one judge, one judge, to influence, to insist on seeking to take action against someone or suspend the proceedings, to bring a condemnatory or acquittal verdict. Because it was the notion of a state in which there would be a rule of law, division of jurisdiction and responsibility. That wasn't my job, then. Next, to what he mentioned... (bell)... Be patient, calm down, relax, therefore, to what the esteemed colleague Krasic mentioned yesterday. The truth is, I'm very fact-finding about everything I do, like this, Mr Krasic, because I've mentioned it several times in the means of information, The Hague tribunal was delivering materials on all financial transactions between Serbia and Cyprus in the period from 1989 to 2000, and in 19 November 2003, the government fell. This material was delivered to the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic, because the prosecution is responsible for these matters. How did we get to that? I was very interested and insisted on the Telecom affair. Some of these people from the affair today are also in very significant state functions or are the leading tycoons in this country. There is, one of them you can see today in the media about another affair. So, Carla del Ponte said, as far as Cyprus is concerned, since the Cypriot government is acting in one hiduciary way, then we will provide all the documentation, and as far as other countries, Greece, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Italy, that I must address the relevant justice ministers of those countries, which are certainly more serious. I remind you that the story of Telecom was the arrangement of Slobodan Milosevic, Dini and Douglas Herd, along with these tycoons that were taking off their cocks. In the arrangement, England is a serious country, so it immediately removed Douglas Herd from the foreign minister's post. Italy was struggling with Deanie. This is where what was happening, so I expected the D.A.'s office, because now there's enough material to react. It's been a month, two, three, the D.A. hasn't responded. On 19 April 2004, in front of the cameras, I again deliver complete material to the Republic Prosecutor, trying to provoke the prosecutor's reactions to start the story of the Cypriot money continues to remain silent. I filed a criminal report for your information, Mr. Krasic, against Mladjan Dinkic and Mr. Labus and another number of their associates. Mr. Predrag Djordjevic, our businessman from Nicosia in Cyprus, who, like a worm, collected materials and really came to a wealth of material, was very much referred to the situation, and I also filed a criminal report against Mladjan Dinkic, of course responsible for not returning the money. That's what I said yesterday. They took some of the others. Dinkic didn't want them back. (President: Thank you, Mr. Batic. There's just one more thing to say and I'm done. This is where the Justice Mafia was mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, this story of the Justice Mafia is the highlight of selective justice and the peak of insolence. Some people have been charged with the exact same crime of taking bribes, but some of them have spent seven months in custody, and some have not spent seven minutes in custody. Why? Because their children are in prominent political or state functions, because they belong to a large political party whose promoters they are, because they are the husbands of the Republic Prosecutor's deputy. It's a story of selective justice. Predrag Stojanovic, a man with severe illness, with Parkinson's disease, with many other diseases, spent seven months in a prison hospital. Time will prove that he is collateral damage in the whole story, because he is a member of the DHSS, that it is revenge for the book and for a part of the text he wrote in the book on the character and work of Vojislav Kostunica. Time will prove it. Time always proves everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5478	Thank you, Mr. Batic. I'd like to report to you now, but I don't know how as chairman, you still mentioned Slobodan Milosevic, and that's worse than mentioning me. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5479	Article 226. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd just like to ask you some more questions. We really don't understand as a citizen, nor as those who are involved in politics so far, the head of all the mafia in this country, Mr. Miskovic, has been prosecuted in any procedure conducted before the Special Prosecutor's Office, and what is it that you of the DSS, or the police minister, are rebelling about? Not when it comes to the bankruptcy mafia, not when it comes to the tobacco mafia. It would be very interesting to hear what they have to say at the C Market, what they have to say about tobacco smuggling. It would be very interesting to hear from you, which is why no Insider show, which has talked about what Mr. Miskovic is involved in, has ended and has not been considered in the police. Let's just say, in the course of the 1990s, at the time of the biggest inflation, the company's only corporation or whatever, Delta had the only option not to pay customs like all the other taxpayers, but had a 45-day deadline when inflation ate all that was to be paid. Why don't we ever talk about what Mr. Miskovic's involvement in cigarette smuggling is? Why don't we say that Mr. Miskovic is on the blacklist of the EU and the United States, and why he's on that list, the man who participates in 16% of the social product in Serbia, the man who took pictures yesterday in Bulgaria, representing this country, together with Milko Forcan? I really expect those who have come out so far to defend the police ministry to say why the police ministry is not processing it, but rather processing everything, bankruptcy, tobacco, travel, as the road mafia has already been, selectively and unlike what Mrs. Markovic said, none of these proceedings have been completed. The question is when it will be over and how it will be done. In none of these procedures, we have come to key people who took part in all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5480	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5481	Mr Mr Mrkonjic, as liberal as the Rules of Procedure, allows the public to be timely, fully and precisely informed of everything that is of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It would be really bad to break such a beautiful democratic tradition dating back to 1991, since the first Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mrkonjic, I appeal to Articles 104 and 226. At first, I must draw attention to the fact that we MPs can hardly perform this function in a quality way and in the interest of citizens unless we get answers to some basic questions, that we know who is sitting in government and who is steaming us as the opposite branch of government. In order for me not to make a mistake, and I am sure that we would not make a mistake and other MPs, I ask that Vojislav Kostunica inform me whether it is true, according to the State Security documents, that he is at the recommendation of the head of State Security's security, Radomir Markovic, to remind you that he is the one who is in prison, and with the consent of his mother, the younger one sent to opposition. Mladjan Dinkic sent to the opposition, that's my question, not my point. I just want to make sure that's true. If that's true, then it's a completely different picture of what's going on in the executive government. Then it is clear to me why no one should even think of moving Mladjan Dinkic or Jelasic, etc. Then I can understand who's holding the court and who's holding the police and who's holding the financial flows, who's taking pictures with who, how much is it, who's on the payroll on the monthly allowance of 10,000 euros, then I can figure it all out. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm sorry Mrs. Borka Vukic is not here, but I would ask you to forward this to Mr. Kostunica. He's not collateral damage, let's get along right now, because of what I just said. On 31 December 2001, Mladjan Dinkic, as governor, decided to liquidate the largest state banks: Beobanka, Jugobanka, Investbanka and JIK Banka. I ask to be answered if then SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica has approved this move by Mladjan Dinkic? As for the crisis headquarters at that time that Labus designed, I know that Vojislav Kostunica has approved, because Labus has repeatedly said publicly, don't call me, that's what we were doing in the agreement between Kostunica and me. So, I'm not interested in that part, I'm informed here, but I'm interested in whether he accepted that the governor is destroying five Serbian banks? Next, it's all the same subject. I would be very pleased to have Mr. Kostunica, as Prime Minister, who is now able to use me strictly. documentation and other documentation, for the public to answer whether Governor Dinkic at the time carried out his idea of destroying banks on the basis of a finding, Mr Cvetkovic, the Belgrade branch of the US Auditor's House "Delloite & Touche" headed by Mr. Danko Djunic, former vice president of the Federal Government. Just to remind you of something that's illogical. Within a year, the audit house gave two positive reports to these banks that they were extremely successful. What happened to making a report that they should simply be killed? I would ask the finance minister, given this fact, to see if this audit house today is capable of doing quality audits and giving recommendations on what the immunity of a firm is, whether it should work, whether it is able to check someone's final account. This is proof that they say, positively, you want negatively, negatively, will be done. That's what these economists know, it'll be done in no time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5482	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mrs. Stankovic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm sorry Mr. Ilic isn't here, he's what we're doing here now as a hit on the police. No, this is not a strike against the police, this is, in fact, a question of responsibility to the man at the head of the police, who applies the principle of selective escorts in this country. What we're doing here right now is proving that the police aren't one man and that there are a lot of people in the police who are extremely good at doing their job. The proof of that is "Sabela" action. Now that the question is what we've been doing, well, here's the action. A large number of people who have been active in this action are now still in the police force, but unfortunately, that management, to say, that is, the minister and all those people around him, are punishing and misrepresenting those people who dare to do their job properly, responsibly and responsibly. As for the principle of sharing power, the largest number of LDP MPs are lawyers, and we know very well what the principle of division of power means, but in Serbia this principle does not apply for the simple reason that both the police and the judiciary are corrupt, i.e. that some of their tops are, in fact, part of that criminal association that we talk to you about so often and that a number of Serbian citizens close their eyes to, but a good number of citizens understands it. In addition, the fact is that LDP, which insists on it, has growing and greater support among voters. What we would announce to you here and what we would ask you as a question, and the evidence is, in fact, how corrupt the judiciary is, is why did Prime Minister Kostunica not testify in the process of killing our prime minister? He, I remind you, was the one who publicly supported the JSO rebellion at the press conference, and you will agree it was the introduction to this terrible event that happened afterwards. What I can tell you at this point, as a citizen, is that this action of "Sabbe" is as much as you guys are going down on the people who did it, was the best and most logical thing that could have happened after the prime minister was killed. Never did Serbian citizens feel safer than at that time. Here, for example, I, as a citizen of Kragujevac, was infinitely happy when I recognized in one video the car of a local mobster whom the federal police officers of the Republic of Serbia arrested and who was then in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5484	National MP Slobodan Maras, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5485	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I would use my right to ask Minister Jocic a question – what will he do about the large number of information that appears in public these days and back for months and concerns Mr Kostunica and Mr Miskovic, and their participation in the sale of the 'C Market'? I think it is also very important for the citizens of this country, for the space of reason that Mr. Miskovic, as you all know, owns almost all of Serbia, thousands and thousands of hectares. There is no store where you will buy something without inserting a dinar to Mr. Miskovic, but at the same time I ask the question why is Mr. Miskovic blacklisted by the European Union, or by the countries of the European Union and the United States? It certainly wasn't because he was doing business in a way that was in accordance with the law. I would like to ask some more MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and it is about the chairman of your committee from the Democratic Party of Serbia from Paracino, which is in the White Book. Is he also processed when he will be processed or is there selective justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5486	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5487	Articles 104 and 226. Of course, I'm asking the Prime Minister to explain because I think he's the most competent to answer that question. Mr. Batic, if you find yourself in a situation that you're informed, I'd ask you to keep some dignity, though, if we don't go all the way. What's this about? You can probably see that someone would get a job, he'd have to have health assurance in addition to those 15 years of life, to have some general health skills and, of course, professional training, work experience, etc. It's from time to time. Such a problem was faced with DOS in 2000, and it was already suspected that some of them were problematic. Remember that after January 25th, then, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic asked all DOS officials to attend a review. So that there wouldn't be this private clinic, and this, and that, they organized it to be on VMA, and of course the government got that report. Now, Mr. Batic, you can probably say I'm lying, but that was in the paper. I don't enter names or last names, and if you're replicating me, please don't name names or last names, but I'm expressing my suspicions, that report has never been published, and apparently there are several who haven't passed, and I know names, psychological testing. Now, I've been talking for years, someone thinks he's become normal thanks to the burnout of the paperwork upstairs. I also notice with this government that some ministers have these pathologies in their behaviour. Then I think it's not fair to the citizens, to the businessmen that the labour inspectors are chasing unless they have confidence, etc., that it would be devastating for the state to have someone who needs to be deprived of their business skills by any chance. When it comes to these diseases, I see some settle in, we learned it in college, Serbian psychiatry, the diagnosis is that it's intelligent and crazy, sick, constricted to him all. It focuses well and depending on the amount of adrenaline it has reactions etc. I would ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica to have it there strictly in the file. He doesn't want the public to know. Here, let the Security Committee led by Mr. Ivica Dacic be informed, and let it be top secret information, it doesn't have to leak in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5488	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5489	Yes, Mr. Radojko, but we do know that we are still going euthanasia for some ministers from this pay phone and to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5490	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. We'll take a 10-minute break, then we'll get back to work. After the break Vesna Pesic. [[After breaks – 16.55]] Since the break is over, please continue your work. We're going back to work. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5492	The member of the Rules of Procedure shall be 226. I'm looking for an explanation and I'm asking a question. With regard to the previous discussion, I would like to draw attention to this discussion that we just had, and to selective justice and to the fact that the police represent one of the strike forces of selective justice, I would like to round it up and show what is the biggest problem of what we talked about earlier. The biggest problem is that people sitting in government become Serbian bosses, we mentioned Miroslav Miskovic, we mentioned Mr Lazarevic, we mentioned some people who rule Serbia from darkness. It would be very good for us, too, much more desirable if these people could at least keep getting money through their own certain monopolies, by shopping for a jibaluk of various hectares or privatisations. Anyway, there's a very big problem that strikes the foundations of our democracy. It is said that these people are also holding the media and that a very active media mafia has shown itself in Serbia so far. I'm just going to tell you one of my personal cases and I'm not answering my word again. It's my chance to tell you what happened to me personally with the media mob. Not only should we mention that when we told those four honest cops who were investigating the EPS issue and stealing and hoarding money, at the expense of every citizen, because, as we know, EPS is a state-owned company, a public enterprise. It's not just about them, it's started in the media, all of a sudden, if you noticed, and the citizens had to notice it, it all stopped. Suddenly there was talk of how many millions they got, and then someone doubled it, and the pain came after that, and there was nothing in the media anymore, and ever since, when they invented these scenarios that they were unemployed, that someone on the outside was making up affairs, all the media had kept quiet on the subject. I'm done with this. At a press conference, I objected to a study that, as a professor, I did and opposed, I mentioned Miroslav Miskovic about monopolies, about lack of competition, and how, based on the monopoly in Serbia, great wealth is being made. Very quickly in one daily list on the first page, it was written, believe it or not, and not only those people sitting in the Assembly here, but also the people following this transmission, on the first page of a daily list, I was accused, no less, but of recalibrating Miroslav Miskovic for one million euros. The moment you get up and tell me what's going on, you get through their controlled media campaign that it's you that's recruiting. The problem is democracy. (President: Time.) ) If all media, tycoons buy information funds and close public debate through information means. It's not enough to have a debate in the Assembly. There must be free media that can get involved, because their investigative journalism, they could even do it much more efficiently and give us data than we do here. At any moment, the media mafia, which formed in Serbia, closes any possibility of opening more serious topics in this society, sets up some collisions and hits on televisions, where we need to fight among ourselves, to cheer up the audience, and you have no such data and such topics anywhere in our newspaper. If you talk, then you get that you're the one that rackets and no one, no less than I personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5493	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MPs Vladan Batic and Slobodan Maras. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Maras, and then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5494	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise the violation of Rule 226, or I would like to request an explanation and ask the question of Police Minister Dragan Jocic. I am referring to what Mrs Pesic was saying, which is why I would ask the question why the four police officers who investigated the energy mafia were disavowed at their jobs, which is why the process is over, is that because it was discovered that the head of the energy mafia, Vojin Lazarevic, the head of the cabinet of Prime Minister Kostunica? Is that why the investigation stopped, and is that why these honest cops, like the police, have had over 90 percent of what they've been through at work? I would draw attention to the citizens that there is also a media mafia in this country and should say openly that this media mafia also consists of Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Miskovic, for the simple reason that they have done the Mediagroup, which is made up of lists such as Standard, Currier and other Libyan newspapers, which have one task in this country, which is that the truth is not heard. I demand answers from the police minister, Mr. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5495	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic, then Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5496	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can also report for Mr. Krasic's replica and for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I'm not going to use both times. I'm going to take it very short. The question for the police minister is – why has no procedure been initiated in connection with the Czech debt affair, "Syrian oil", "Russian gas", "Keramika Kanjiza", "Yugormedia", "Veterinary Institute", "Knjiz Milos", "Jelasic's villa", "Meridian", "Cargo Center", etc., because in all these things, of course, the four banks, the National Savings Bank, the Cypriot Money, are the same set? It's all the same, the same people, because they're government favorites, because they're tycoons, Serbian masters, and these are just their contractors. That's why nothing was processed, but I'd like Mr. Jocic to answer that. Also, why is it not published anywhere, and why is it kept as a scripture, a financial part of the Horgos-Požega concession agreement? You know why? So you don't see whose capital there is. Do you know why they should not be seen? So as not to see it again, it's capital, mostly here, quiet, same tycoon, not some married couple from Spain. It's the same story as all this. Remember back a little bit, National Savings, buying companies from some exotic islands, when that – Hamovic and Lazarevic. All this, Czech debt, Syrian oil, all the same people. Because I potentiated the issue of the National Savings Bank, which is why Stojkovic gave the order to Jocic, and that's why I was arrested! Then Jocic sly-bittenly laughed even though he knew it wasn't true, but I don't blame him. One more thing, in order not to draw the wrong conclusion, since I mentioned inside the police, most of the officers are honest, honest, responsible, hardworking, doing a serious, difficult, risky job. They're paid badly, they're poor uniforms, they haven't solved their housing issue, but one smaller number compromises. Imagine those who kidnapped a man from the Guests, took him to Goc, forced him to dig up cancer and shoot him. That's what the cops did. That's disturbing. (President: Time.) I'm done. In the White Church, local television caught a cop sniffing and then the owner of that TV has problems, chasing him everywhere. It's a police problem, it's got to be solved. There was never a solution to what applied to buying locomotives and wagons over the butics, etc., since there are pets and those who are politically insatiable. One needs to be punished, one needs to be helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5497	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5498	Mr. Obradovic, you can see that political insinuators can't perform the function of MPs unless they get the right information and how good it is when the National Assembly opens up on the basis of these few members I call on, which are 104, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, where we are given the opportunity to get information that can help us do this job that we need to do. I think Mr. Kostunica can answer now that he's been in government for a long time, he's got control of complete documentation, and I'm also a little bit following up on what Mr. Jocic said a few days ago when he was here, too, because he was terrified that there was some crime. I'm helping Mr. Jocic in the form of a question. I have information that that bank shut-down business couldn't have ended if it hadn't been for the President of the Trade Court. This man is now under arrest, there is a procedure being conducted, but I believe that in this procedure we should discuss and who influenced him to open up the liquidation of these banks in this way, with these tragic consequences for this country. Let me remind you, we used to have a governor who didn't recognize the court's decisions at all. No federal court decision was binding on Governor NBJ at the time. Is this where the call of organized crime lies, and is that the governor’s relationship to encourage even more serious crimes? According to my information, and I ask to be answered whether it is true, some Goran Obradovic from Vrnjačka Banja was the bankruptcy manager of Beobanke, so they say when he finished the job well, that is to say, the Belgrade Bank, then they transferred him to Eksim Bank. He probably proved himself there, so I'm interested in who this Goran Obradovic is, whether he's covered by this bankruptcy mafia or by some procedure at all. Because, according to some information, he'd probably have to be blamed in some way if he wasn't, at least a suspect, so if not a suspect, then probably a crown witness to the prosecution in this fight against crime. I'd still be interested in something about nepotism. Is it true that Vesna Djindjic and Mladjan Dinkic are related? If they're cousins, to answer me where they've all been in some way in business-state relationships of business, and relatives shouldn't be together or be so connected. I don't want to ask about Natasha Shakic, since in the meantime I made sure it wasn't that. Then I would be very pleased if Mr. Kostunica would inform the MPs who, some, Ljujic, he bought some business space of Beobank in Branko's number 7. They say the contract is very harmful to the state because it's below a price. Also, it would be interesting for the Prime Minister to answer to me, this Beobank building at the Warmweasel 11, was it sold to someone like Beobank's property, or was it donated to someone? If sold – for which money, and who is the user of that space now. Also, for JIK Bank space, I think the street is called Prince Michael's number 10. Someone took it, so I'm interested in who's there? Because based on who's out there, I can figure out why there was an operation to destroy these banks and how big state property was unloaded. Of course, I appreciate Mr. Obradovic. After several MPs, I will call again, because you see very important answers are needed to be high-quality MPs, so the public doesn't accuse us of cooperating with some, and we have no idea what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5499	People's MP, Free Maras. Is anyone else reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Then the next speaker is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5500	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I am reporting on the violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I would ask a question and ask the police minister for an explanation – does the police work selectively? To work selectively is that in the last 45 minutes or a little more DSS deputies have stopped going out for this pay phone, because they have no arguments to prove that the police are not working selectively. We've brought out a lot of evidence that the police are doing selectively. They didn't arrest one time, they didn't listen to the boss of all the mobs in this country, Mr. Miskovic. Probably because he's the closest associate of Prime Minister Kostunica. Also, I'd like to say that aside from these four officers who discovered the energy mafia, many more officers have gone through a googoto in the police since he came to the police minister, Mr. Jocic. Remember only Mr. Bora Banjc, Mr. Milan Obradovic, who only suffered because they carried out the "Sabbe" action in the best possible way. Also, I should like to say that Mr. Terzic was arrested two and a half months ago, or two and a half months ago, with the agreement of the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So he was arrested with DS support, probably because he knew all the data that was discovered in Sabre's action. Now he was released two months after that in the highest silence, and was arrested, all the TVs transmitted his arrest. I must say that when it comes to the DS because six members of the LDP in Vrbas today have been brought to justice by a judge with the consent of the DS, whose minister is Petrovic, the minister of justice who has promised reform, however, we act exactly as we did in the 1990s, because people freely express their will, because they protest when the police department does not do their job, are brought in and brought before a judge for violations. I must also point out that throughout the day, or all afternoon, citizens are calling in our Parliament club and giving us support for everything we've said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5501	MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5502	I must say that in the past two minutes and several minutes I have listened to my fellow MPs, because they are better than any medium, because the media will not do that, to show what looks like what is called a democratic society after the October 5th coup. They are better, each in their own way, better than anyone else to paint what is done and what is the situation in Serbia. These mutual accusations and destruction, in general, the state, this is startling, I must say, and especially the words used – criminals, thieves, criminal groups, etc. If the D.A. is watching this, he's gonna need to react absolutely. They're just forgetting to say that this is 2007, and now they're going to end in September and remind Serbia that they've spent these seven years. Every comparison with the 1990s is seen to be completely unambiguous, completely unnecessary, because what happens in Serbia after 2000 cannot be compared to anything in Serbia's modern history. Under a firm of democratic values, there's a lot of things to do, and that's life-like, that's what cruel life is, because citizens through the media, through television, the press, have a beautiful picture of a beautiful life. Statistical data that says that everything is better and better, and they're actually getting worse and worse living and dealing with it. We also heard a lot of data particularly about the tobacco issue, because that is the point of the agenda, I say not by chance, indirectly, because it may be a way of talking about this point of the agenda in an indirect way. Unfortunately, the tone of such a conversation was given by Minister Cvetkovic himself, as he spoke here about the bill, which represents the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the government, spoke a lot about what was not needed, as his predecessor, Mr Dinkic, spoke about the CEFTA agreement. He used only a few words about what he was supposed to say and never met the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or the MPs, which is the essence of this law on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. As a matter of fact, it would be good to hear from Mr. Minister what the essence of this law is, apart from that empty story of reconciliation or the need to comply with the provisions of the CEFTA Agreement. It should be said loudly and clearly that the essence of this law is to essentially destroy domestic tobacco production, not cigarette manufacturers, but tobacco producers. That's the fundamental difference and that game of words is very, very important. We have received one material from the Ministry of Finance, which mentions a reduction compared to those figures that we received in the Bill of Law, even less the figures of the mandatory purchase of tobacco, even less, instead of 1,400 tons of tobacco are mentioned here. There were 2,000 tonnes of tobacco earlier, and then one sentence said – the obligation to buy or manufacture a domestic tobacco began on 1 January 2008. Here, in the other day it will be October 1, 2007, it is in four months and you can imagine how much government cares about domestic tobacco producers. Even those four months were too long to leave old quotas and commitments, and they take terrible care of tobacco producers by abolishing them, reducing these obligations, or the amount of compulsory ransom, and reducing it to a smaller level, especially the CEFTA. This story about CEFTE, our colleague Milan Nikolic said well yesterday, is a dark villa – if you come in you will regret it, if you don't come in you will regret it, but it is interesting that neither today nor today the representatives of the government are trying to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what will be positive. We have one simple fact, 32 agreements are replaced by one. And what's going to be positive? It is very interesting here, as it is tobacco, that when signing this agreement and in the months thereafter, the representatives of the government spoke, and then the government and the present, that they must find common language with tobacco producers, referring to cigarette manufacturers. Why am I underlining this – with tobacco producers, because obviously this bill, which the Assembly is discussing today, only takes care of the interests of cigarette manufacturers, not those of the people who produce tobacco. It is, unfortunately, one practice that was founded in 2003 and it lasts and day-to-day. Why do I say 2003? Not by chance, then, of course, the Danube Industry was privatized, and I, for example, have some information for DIN, and I think it's very interesting that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia might hear something new in 2007, and if not new, to remind them what it looked like. It is mentioned in the media that privatisation was done the best job in Serbia's modern history and democratic times, and it is mentioned that it was done in a fantastic way, etc. Everything's great, there's only one small problem, the price difference at which DIN was sold, and especially what happened before and after the sale of DIN, and they're not the exception of other factories. My colleague Rajko Baralic made it clear yesterday what the government had done before the DIN privatisation itself took place. She performed certain operations, bringing future customers into absolutely one privileged position. The excise law classifies tobacco not by quality, which is done everywhere in the world, but by whether it is imported or produced in Serbia. The ratio was one to ten, the domestic cigarettes inflow in the budget was ten times lower based on excise duty than in the case of tobacco imports. The moment it was privatized, it became a domestic industry and you can imagine what an inflow of these sold domestic products was. Of course, what's left to be considered foreign, they led on on another basis and therefore did not represent serious competition for this buyer. In this way, the domestic DIN is essentially destimulated to export and objectively at that time protected from competition. At the same time, duty on tobacco imports has been reduced to 15%, while in the EU customs duties on tobacco imports are 58%, 38% in Croatia, 90% in Romania. That's an unreasonable solution to the eye, but the bottom line of that solution is that this tobacco industry is. Those who privatised DIN must know what DIN meant. I have one piece of information, unless a representative of the government disproves I will try at one of the next sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to bring a document to confirm my words. There is information that a contract was signed on intentions between Philip Morris and DIN, that the price of DIN was established at a billion and 50m dollars, which is approximately 800m euros. I have information that DIN has been sold for 385m euros. Interesting disproportionate and interesting question, why such a price difference? Those stories that no one wanted to buy, etc. These are stories for small children, because the contract here clearly shows the intention of the multinational company to own DIN at that price. However, the question arises – why was it sold at this lower price, and especially why was it created on the Serbian market to be fully protected as some protected kind of bear? Otherwise, when it comes to DIN, it should be known that he had a contract annually to buy domestic products with about 100 companies, about 30,000 cooperatives, producers from southern Serbia, from Ljubljana, which my colleague, SO Ljubovija, will talk about, and, of course, a small tobacco is produced in Serbia. I'm deliberately mentioning this because those who understand this story will know what it's about, but, of course, Virginia was also produced. They satisfied, these domestic producers, about 40% of domestic consumption. This tobacco is logically spent, but also exchanged, because these tobaccos, although smaller in size, they are of a fine quality, they have a special aroma, they are aromatic, so foreign producers considered it necessary to take our quantities of tobacco, to exchange and through this exchange of different types of tobacco is provided another 20% tobacco for consumption. Logically, if that's 60, 40 and 20%. The remaining 40% is from imports and you can now understand if the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in 2003, kept customs duty at 15% it gave them the opportunity to import other products under those low prices. Otherwise, when it comes to DIN, it should be remembered that at that time, before democratic changes and before the change of leadership, DIN provided, or shared the peasants, that he had divided one year 30 dryers and about 120 tractors, and they were obliged to pay it through giving, they returned over tobacco. The fact is, thanks to these measures that increased tobacco production is about 32%...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5503	Mr. Beard, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5504	Yeah, yeah. Thanks to these measures, the production of tobacco was increased both in Timoška krajina and in Šapac, and in Loznica and the areas I mentioned. Of course, tobacco processing stations, such as Senta and Choko, and Nisha from Piroth, had an increase in production every year. In the year DIN was sold, in 2003, only 25% of production was bought, unfortunately, but after that almost nothing. Of course, the new owner brings it from abroad. It should be mentioned that DIN had 600 hectares of tobacco fields and that it worked at that time in 2000, that there were about 2,640 employees at that time, of which: in the production worked in new fields about 400 people and the rest in the factory. Now DIN has 1,200 employees. No need to be surprised at the government's representative will say that, but the social programme, people wrote alike when someone gets the factory and the price difference is 400m euros and some million euros, then they can offer money for the social programme, to calm down the unrest and that somehow what could come from inside that factory in time prevents it. What DIN production was, and what was its significance for the budget, is enough to say one thing when cigarettes were 6 dinars, such as, for example, "Classic", the daily production was one million marks, and 50% of it went to the state. Now the price is 60 dinars and costs are reduced, but the inflow does not exist. The essence of this story is about the tobacco law, it is that domestic producers from now on, provided that they still exist, objectively, will be left to themselves. The state has not done anything, nor at least heard from the minister that he intends to do this, four sentences have been made on the draft tobacco law and none of what will happen to domestic producers. Otherwise, the CEFTA state can, if it wants to protect domestic production and it would be interesting to hear why the state is doing nothing where there are possible stimulating measures and other measures to ease the position of the manufacturer in any way, because obviously there is no concern about manufacturers, this is about what is called the interest of multinational companies and the interest of large cigarette manufacturers. I'm saying this, not by chance, but I have to mention it, because it's the government itself, and it seems to me that one of the colleagues who spoke about this law, terribly ill-represented this law, not only through the presentation of the minister, but also through the reasoning of this law. Words and sentences that are so wide and so long are used to simply lose meaning, and to illustrate to you what I am telling you, the explanation of the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure. Believe it or not, but the government of the Republic of Serbia here draws two interesting parallels. I thought until now, at least as an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia these last few years, that the law is more important than any conclusion of the government, and here, now the government assures me in this proposal for a tobacco law, which we are discussing today, that this law has been reached by the government which adopted the Action Plan of Preparation of the CEFTA Agreement. The government concluded the Action Plan, and we are now turning it into law. Of course, it cannot be changed and thus we see the fate of the general law and the order of the norms that are the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think the second part of the argument is even more interesting, on the same page, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the sentence is terribly long and believe me if I read to you at all, you couldn't understand the meaning, but the end of that sentence is illustrating and quoting, the law is passed because of the need to pass laws that abolish existing discrimination, beware, 'the existing discrimination of domestic tobacco producers versus foreign producers, i.e. comply with the principles and rules of the WTO, thus eliminating the adverse consequences set out in Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now imagine, fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially tobacco producers, how these people were discriminated against by the fact that the state had an obligation to buy them production! A miracle of how they were discriminated against, now the government is helping them and ending their obligation and abolishing discrimination. It's really fantastic, and I think the Ministry should reward whoever came up with this kind of reasoning of the law, that the state rewards tobacco producers by no longer buying them certain amounts of tobacco! I think it best says what kind of relationship the government has on this. When it comes to the adverse consequences of Article 161. Rules of Procedure, I must, since this is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the only place in Serbia where you can hear something other than the Government's position, allow that Article 161, these are the adverse consequences of Article 161 and it reads: "The law can, exceptionally, be carried out by emergency procedure. Only laws governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. ''I would very much like to hear from the ministers who are harmful to the lives and health of people, by increasing the production of cigarettes, by increasing the production of cigarettes and filling their pockets with multinational companies, and by urgent procedure, allow them to work even better. Well done! This is your argument, there's no story, and I haven't heard this in a while. When it comes to the security of the country, I can understand that, because this bill is of interest to multinational companies. Now, this is a tragedy for Serbia when companies are so powerful that they can tell the government what law to pass, to be in line with their needs, and this is the tragedy of Serbia in 2007, that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a law that will be in the interest of these multinational companies is proposed. Because, please, the promoter called for the "safety of the country" and I can understand that, "organs and organizations," I don't think that's relevant. In any case, this small example shows what Serbia has turned into today and what is one of the faces of the CEFTA agreement. No one told us today, the minister in particular, any word about the consequences of the product. And when my colleague Jovanovic talks about tobacco producers from Love, you will see what it looks like from their angle and with which they will be "enjoyed" to welcome this law, because they will be left to themselves. Of course, the government doesn't show any interest in taking care of these people, because if it did, it would have done it before, and I may have been wrong, but the minister didn't offer us a single word, not one statement in favor, that, well, he's doing something. Besides, it doesn't surprise me, because this government doesn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the ministers when they're here in front of MPs, they try to speak as little as possible. Any publicly spoken word can be fatal by them, and by government, especially because, unfortunately, some other interests govern the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this case we have seen the interest of multinational companies. If someone asks why such a conclusion, look at the government's statements, that they and how they have to take care of the interests of the cigarette manufacturer, they don't eventually hide it, as they created one mile in 2003, an absolute monopoly position and the ability to earn huge amounts of money, and you saw how much differences in price and what it looks like in practice. Then there is no wonder what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is passing and what this law is and what it is. As a matter of fact, of course, the minister didn't speak, but there are MPs who, like us socialists, will talk about it, or other colleagues will talk about it. Anyway, we don't think this law is good, and we of the minister haven't heard a word about why it would be good, except that it's going to end the obligation, and of course it's not good, it's bad for these people and there's no rational reason to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5505	Do any of the heads of Parliament or authorised representatives want a word more? No, I don't. ) The word is Zoran Krasic. I'm asking about who would talk later. Zoran Krasic, then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5506	Mr. Obradovic, it's the same Article 226 from earlier, Laufer told me, it seems that I made a mistake, that it was not Goran, but a Zoran, not from Vrnjaka Banja, but from Trstenik, so you can alternatively put a lot of data to be verified. Of course, we need to check the data on the business space "Invest Bank" on 27th November number 118 and Roosevelt's number 45, which is also leased to someone. I'm interested in whom it was leased, at which cost, when, at what time. Was the one who leased it authorized to do so? It says here that it was leased by a Predrag Markovic "Stubs of Culture" and that's the former president, okay. I don't know, that's why I'm looking for an explanation because I don't know. It's also a space on 2 Milutin Ivkovic Street where it's already according to my information, and I'd like Mr. Kostunica to tell me whether it's true or not, it's taken some Mr. Christmas. So he turned it into 16 bars, so he raised the price and now he's making more money. Who allowed him to earn more money, and who allowed him to borrow and then sublet others? That's what this is about. I'm not sure, so that's why I'm asking to check it out. Not to disturb this matter, given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Vojislav Kostunica, has established extremely good relations with the City Bank, and I have come to that conclusion from some newspaper texts and about the purchase of the Republika Srpska's Telecom. You buy that, and in return the City Bank comes to Belgrade. I think that's how it was written in the paper. In 2001, the "Siti Bank" claimed the following, experts from the US City Bank, that Mladjan Dinkic had destroyed Serbia's economy with his actions. I'd like to ask Mr. Kostunica to interpret to me what the American City Bank said, because maybe that's not true. I wouldn't want to make a mistake about my soul. Mr. Cvetkovic, I'd like to introduce you to the subject now that you've been listening to some things today. You know a lot of that and it's very good. I would ask you, since this debate on tobacco will take some time, through your service, to carry out a check at the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, the Department of Production, Recognition, the protection of agricultural plant varieties is a solution number 320-03-188/2-2004/06 of 14. 02. In 2006, it was signed by a minister, and I just assumed that at the beginning of the signature Dr., other things weren't clear, since Lauffer gave me a bad copy, that's a solution that recognized one sort of thing with us... (President: Time.) ) Here, right now, I'll say it very briefly, but this is very important for Mr. Cvetkovic to understand what they've planted on him to represent here. Mr. Cvetkovic, pay attention. You see, you see, that's one solution where the introduction into the production of a foreign variety of tobacco 'national tabacu' (n.l.) And the variety is called NC 55, so through some company and so on and so on. But the important thing is that it was asked by one of our companies, and it's called "Tak" d.o.o. Zyto thinks No. 44/2 Belgrade. Why am I bringing this up? I'm telling you this because on the basis of this solution, we have a kind of tobacco. There's a big dispute going on in Nis, I don't know if it's between the tobacco factory or someone who bought it and so on. Why? Agricultural producers got this variety and didn't give birth to tobacco, didn't give birth to a pomegranate, but the country was permanently, according to the findings of the artificial, lost, relatively permanent, seven years impossible to produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5507	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Markovic broke up, so it should be regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5508	Allow me, Mr. Chairman, only for Mr. Cvetkovic's sake, I would say. Don't you think, I'm asking, of course, that someone to answer me if that's the reason for this court dispute and this damage done to the peasants? But I'm interested, for this debate on the tobacco law, is it possible that this is the way the situation was created that those who bought our tobacco industries rightly say – we can't buy in Serbia what quantities we've committed ourselves to, because there's simply no such amount on the market. I get the impression that someone systematically destroyed our production and thus created conditions for something we hope to talk about tomorrow, and it concerns concrete solutions to the tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5509	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5510	I, Mr. Chairman, would point to Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, I would point out some things, and you, as a proposing to amend the tobacco law, can, under Article 93(1), report whenever you ask for a word. So, regardless of whether the lists of MPs, the heads of parliament groups, have been reported, I call on you to use that member, so that we do not remain without an answer as many questions asked by your colleague Tabakovic, when there was a debate on the budget, so that we do not remain without an answer when it comes to CEFTA, with which this Law is bound anyway. Now I'm taking this opportunity, if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, based on Article 226 as we enter into the discussion of the tobacco law to ask some questions to Mr. Minister. It's a prerequisite, Mr. Minister, that we may continue to talk to you and that you may use this member to give us answers, to rephrase, or to answer these questions. To inform you, your time is not limited and you can talk as much as you want. Obviously, you have nothing to say or you prefer to remain silent. You were Deputy Minister Alexander Vlahovic in 2003 when our domestic industries, i.e. tobacco factories, were privatized. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you, about what Mr Krasic was talking about and what the MPs of the SRS will talk about, that the impediment of domestic tobacco producers began with the arrival of DOS in power. Namely, the organic link between Djindjic's regime and the largest DOS mobster, Stanko Subotica-Canneta-Zapca, was preceded by the privatisation of these two domestic factories. Then there were various variations, given that it was the main channel of tobacco smuggling, which involved Zoran Djindjic and Cane-Zabac, who generously placed himself at the disposal of the entire government of the Republic of Serbia by saying – I offer you my services, because when it comes to such a large mobster and when it comes to cigarette smuggling, that means all it takes, all the dirty jobs for you to finish. At the same time, you were deputy minister, Mr Cvetkovic, when this same Stanko Subotic - Cane - Žabac, together with you and Mr Vlahovic and then prime minister, participated in the privatisation of Sartida as a member of the delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then you should explain to us whether at that time you, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, had direct connections with Caneta-Zappac and whether you knew then, Mr Cvetkovic, that one day, and whether you were thinking hypothetically about it because you advocated the CEFTA Agreement, and even though the domestic tobacco industry is privatised, you would bring manufacturers into an even worse situation if you propose a law like this. Because because of CEFTE and because of this law, which you are proposing now, our domestic tobacco industry will be damaged by hundreds of millions of euros. Since you're a man of the privatisation process of these two factories, British American Tabaco and Philip Morris, then you, as then a member of the government... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The Deputy Minister, he promised, the entire government at the time, to the holders of the job – that you would protect the production of cigarettes and the two companies that bought our domestic factories, i.e. to use the safeguard measures by 2009. Since the debate on CEFTI is over, since the executive directors of these two factories in our country already a year ago, and the announcements of CEFTE have raised this issue, and you are now the resolute finance minister, come out, Mr Cvetkovic, and tell us this: is the last amendment of the Excise Act enough to deprive these two foreign companies now who have bought our domestic or you will now have some new inducement, since it is obvious that you are corrupting these tobacco producers and that they are in a situation that is completely invaluable, depriving business, which is otherwise very difficult and bloody for anyone who does so? But now tell me nicely whether there are enough funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget based on increased excise duties and who will deprive British American Tabaco and Philip Morris of such a harmful contract, or whether you are going to do something new to the citizens of Serbia and hitting the pockets of such poor citizens, that you can manage because it is your contractual obligation, regardless of what it was some sort of gentleman's agreement. But then, you, as deputy minister Alexander Vlahovic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, took the obligation to act like this by 2009. Now we're asking you for a concrete answer, how you're going to respond and on what grounds you're going to provide that and that kind of money. Don't let it go without an answer or give us some unmistakable answer, because, Mr. Cvetkovic, two months ago, I asked you, when there was a budget debate, what would happen to the workers of the Kragujeving Institute for Employment and Education, when I found an item in the budget that set out seven billion 50 and something million in the transition fund for those people. You went out to replicate, or you used that time after the discussion of all MPs, you spoke before the end, 5-10 minutes, you said there's no problem, we know there's no problem, it's been inherited, it's been there for six years, it's gonna be all right, it's going to be damaged workers, the state is going to take care of them. Meanwhile they got some sort of severance, they didn't want it, they wanted to go back to work. You have thus played with the fate of the tobacco producer before that of the Bor workers, whose then prime minister at the Dossov government, Djindjic, has said that they can deal with the production of peanuts and the production of furniture, so today you are playing with the fate of these people and the role of the state in this business that was of great importance at the time. You were in a hurry to privatise two domestic factories at the time to cover up traces and links of the government's summit with the tobacco mafia, such as Milo Djukanovic, of course, via Canet-Zapca in Montenegro, to the entire Balkan cartel. You think we forgot that. You know, your relationships with the fierce mobsters and with what you've been doing not only will it remain recorded in the history of the Serbian state's poverty, but now these are concrete consequences and you've taken on the risk and commitment and now, here at the misfortune of the Serbian people, you've reassembled some government to rule, so tell us where you're going to deliver that money to us. Mr. Minister, it's nothing funny, but for the answer of a man who has the budget of the Republic of Serbia in his hands. So, is the Excise Act sufficient for them to be compensated, how are you going to do so, given the fact that we have a customs rate much lower than in other countries that are signatories of CEFTA, or in Croatia is 38%, and their intention is to ask the state for that compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5511	Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5512	Ladies and gentlemen, here I am to take part in this debate, with this still a principle debate, so I expect it to be even more vivid when we start to discuss the amendments and about the principle debate, let me give answers to a few questions that have been asked here. In doing so, I have to say that I will not use time because I do not consider it unlimited, but I will concentrate on this subject and try to give direct answers to what I am asked of. Before I do that, I want to thank you for the suggestions about the way the arguments are written and to accept that they are not always the best, but certainly these suggestions will help us write better. Now I'd like to answer the question first why the emergency procedure and about it, those arguments. First, I would like to remind myself, and in that it is the basis of my answer, which is that the law, or the amendment of the tobacco law, was intended to be part of a package of laws that were related to the adoption of the budget for this year. But for technical reasons, unfortunately, that law was late, as far as I remember, I think it was one or two hours, so it moved to another calendar day and we couldn't bring it together with the other laws, so, with those mentioned here, so, VAT, excise, etc. So he was in an emergency procedure, so two or three months ago, and he ended up out of that whole story, and now he's on the agenda. That's why those arguments, in a sense, look a little bit less direct. Secondly, regarding the issue of domestic producers and their poor positions that this law now gives them, I would like to say here the following, and I would also like to ask whether and what are the obligations of compensation of Philip Morris and BATA, it is, in fact, that domestic producers are protected by the fact that the rate of customs has been increased to 57.6%, although here it is manipulated with very low customs duty, with 57.6% starting on 1 January 2008. For now, it is low, it is about 15%, but this is about the entry into force of this law and its effects, because the 57.6% is automatically abolished by the obligation to buy domestic tobacco. So that's what this is about. It's time-coordinated. The whole story about the release of the ransom obligation is in the function of CEFTA. I can understand that a number of MPs think CEFTA is wrong. Everyone who thinks that, of course, will find this wrong, too. But if it comes from the position that CEFTA is something that we're going to adopt and if it starts with the attitude that practically the whole region is going in one direction of integration, then this attitude here is also correct. About what I said, there's no obligation to pay compensation to these producers, local tobacco producers. That is exactly what the Action Plan was mentioned, because it was made in agreement with manufacturers. They accepted it. On this basis, those basic elements were withdrawn from the Action Plan and given as a draft law. Now I would just comment, but really probably speculative, the figures that were, what was the price, etc. I don't know that they were mutual offers, etc., but if we take it as true and it's really the current price of 800m euros, I find it incomprehensible to the price of 390, which is only two-thirds of the capital. So, if those 390 were to come out to see how much the entire factory is worth, that's about 550-560 million. That's the price the factory was sold at. If this adds to the various obligations arising from the situation found and if, too, one "knowledge" and the flow of time, an increase in the wealth of the market and a general increase in the price of our capital in our businesses, which is evident, I do not see that this is some dramatic difference. I'm saying again, if that's true, but let me say this again, speculatively and what would happen if it were. In the end, I want to thank you for your participation in this general debate, and then to invite you to participate in the amendments together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5513	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MPs Zoran Krasic and Zarko Obradovic. As far as the debate is concerned, we've practically not even started, so we're just about to have a discussion of this law. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5514	I advertised, I told you, Mr. Obradovic, you know what member it refers to, 136. Mr. Cvetkovic, I'd like you to take this bill and see by the dates that it's ready earlier. On the first page of the argument, you listed the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and you cited the members, etc., but I will read to you what stands in half of the second order: 'Legal basis', it should be a constitutional basis, but well, ''it is in' that and that article, 'by which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, the tax system and the financing of the exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia established by the Constitution and the law'. It's a wording that stands with tax regulations, right? But this is not a tax code, Mr. Cvetkovic. If this regulation is not tax, you have given these provisions to be changed, I draw your attention to this page where Article 1 means, the subject of this law is the subject of production, processing, placing on the market of tobacco, as well as the production, classification and transport of tobacco products, the keeping of registration lists and records, the type of product composition data is determined, the tobacco management is educated and the supervision for the implementation of this law is regulated. So there's no excise, there's no tax, there's nothing that has anything to do with finance. Do you agree, Mr. Cvetkovic? You agree. Nice to meet you. So Balinian doesn't do his job. If Balinovac had done his job he would have returned it nicely and it might have been the same member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but probably some point relating to production and bonds where the law is regulated, where the Assembly is authorized to regulate traffic, production, etc. But, well, you're a pig, so we don't take you for something that could be the worst. Furthermore, Mr Cvetkovic, you wrote in June this year that the material basis for this law, and these are the reasons etc., etc., urge, initiative, motive why you are asking for this to change, to find, you have written – the rules of the European Union. Let me inform you, since it seems to infect the government there, we are not members of the EU. It's the rules: stop, we're not there. It's called CEFTA, we're not even there. So, it's much better that you asked Mike of the Crossfoot or one of our peasants from the Doljevac who was damaged and his land was destroyed in seven years that he couldn't grow tobacco, because it must be sandy, by the river, etc., if I didn't tell you, I'll tell you about it tomorrow, so instead of calling Mike from the Overfoot and asking him if Mike, what's your interest and calling you, here's this side, two-thirds, we don't count those there, you'd applaud because you'd respected one of our citizens and his fundamental interest. You have called for everything that is being done against the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5515	Time. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Žarko Obradovic, then Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I recognized myself in what the minister said was an attempt to manipulate me here. The data is being manipulated. There's a stenogram, Mr. Minister, don't wave your head. The stenogram is a strange thing, a stenogram exists and my clearly stated claim that the duty on tobacco imports was 15% and when that customs duty was abolished – on 1 January 2008, in four months and, what is the manipulation of Mr. Minister? Is customs 15%? Yes, it is. Is the first one abolished, it says, domestic producers will be protected. You know how the people say, "Don't take a donkey to green grass." When you destroy them, you'll protect them. Nice, really, of this government, it's not, but you know how frankly I'm not surprised by this kind of relationship between individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Mr. Cvetkovic himself. Remember only three months ago, he said from this pay phone that the baby VAT cannot be abolished because of the EU directive. Same reasons, Mr Krasic, EU directives. Then he gave four more different answers, and then the government said, "When the patriarch Paul seeks," he can. So I won't be surprised to see tomorrow as a whole other explanation, and aside from the fact that the VAT hasn't been lifted yet. So citizens are absolutely not told the truth, not to say another word. The other thing is, I've provided certain information, Mr. Minister, I said if you insist on me trying to get that paper. Me, I have to tell you, it's a phrase when the minister says -- maybe 800 million euros, I don't know, but 390, so maybe about 500. Look out, guys, that's a 300-million-euro difference. At a time when pensioners receive 50% of the average salary, perhaps 300m euros. Do you know what can be done for that 300 million euros in the state? Maybe 300 million, and that's like a small difference, what difference does it make now, and what you butchers are talking about and bringing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia into confusion when we in the government know everything. Maybe 300 million euros in differences, what does that have to do with it? This is the government, this is the government, and this is the 2003 manner, because everything they did back then, except privatisation, it was then, so that man couldn't get to the word, it was all fantastic, then slowly change things over time, sometimes something says, and then it turns out that it's not exactly what it's like. I don't speak on behalf of the cigarette manufacturer, I don't use cigarettes, I speak as a national MP who takes care of something called the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And I would personally like cigarettes to be used as little as possible because it says "smoking kills." But I can't accept it, and I can't react when the minister who talks about the tobacco law tells the producers - no longer will the state... And be happy about it. Don't be angry, what's wrong with you! We're saving your life by not saving you, because they won't have the obligation to buy that tobacco. Then on the price difference story they're responding to, what difference does it make? Really, Minister, I think it's good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have the opportunity to hear this kind of exposure and such claims. Because, in fact, this shows what has existed for several years, that unfortunately there are two parallel worlds in Serbia, one world of government and another world of ordinary citizens and people in power do not see how ordinary people live, so that difference of only 300m euros obviously means nothing to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5517	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5518	Article 136, Mr. Albianic, we're going around it. Mr. Cvetkovic, before any more serious debate on this bill, you must go out for this pay phone and explain to us what the difference between fermented and processed tobacco is? But don't, just like this, as it's written here. You explain it a little bit more, and here's why I'm asking you. You, I think, were in the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, or you went out, I don't know. Then a law was passed that regulated those excises and it was postponed for five years, etc. I was in the Assembly then, criticizing that regulation and that way of determining excise duties and saying what would happen when the bar was cut. The bar has dropped, crocodiles have increased and, of course, chaos across the country. So there is some continuity that requires all MPs to explain what the difference between these two concepts is. I was just talking about the constitutional basis and I said why it couldn't be that constitutional basis the government is calling for. Here, now, Mr. Cvetkovic, I will support the government if you have called on this constitutional basis. You know why? Because the production and processing of tobacco is a state monopoly and there is no free market. It was still left in the jargon – the monopoly, the ransom station, the production, the Herzegovic tobacco smuggling, the rest was recorded. So, the state has full responsibility for the production and transport of tobacco, and this one carries responsibility under WTO rules. Everything liberal. Why? That's what I'm going to do in one of the next calls to explain to you. Because five times a cigarette is being smuggled across the Balkans. Mr. Cvetkovic, ask around your ambassador in America, I think it's still the one Ivan Vujačić, with him asking if there has been a major dispute in New York that leads the EU against the world's largest cigarette manufacturers, and the claim against them is 10 billion euros, because such damage has been caused by these multinational companies. By the way, we have to say that you'll never know who the real owner of the tobacco factory is, one has headquarters in Zurich, but the main headquarters is in New York, so you have that in mind. One more thing for these DSS people, since I signed their initiative to preserve Serbian and Cyrillic. Do you know that past the Constitution and any of our laws in the tobacco factory in Nis, probably a third of the employees work in English. In Serbia, there is an official use of Serbian language, but they must work in English. And that English on Cyrillic, that's what you do. I understand some Arab states that have at the level of the Constitution or the law required an obligation to know, in addition to a mandatory Arabic language, French, if they work in hospitality, police, etc. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. We don't have such provisions. Can a foreign employer order what will be the official language of the company? He can't. This can't happen in any country on a globe earth, and you've either allowed or kindly looked at or pretended not to see and when it comes to language as a sign of recognition of a nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5519	In the order of speakers, the word has a folk MP Vlatko Ratkovic, and then Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5520	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there is no "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". 29 of 2007 published Action Plan for the implementation of the CEFTA Agreement in the work concerning the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products. This action plan also sublimes three elements, i.e. three policies – excise policy, customs policy and agrarian policy. Why am I saying this? This, for the reason that this law on amendments and additions to the tobacco law should not be seen in isolation from this single united act called the Action Plan and is precisely this law on one line and on the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme and the parliamentary majority, which is to comply with our rules with EU rules and with the rules of the world trade organisation, i.e. the reduced WTO. I will remind that the WTO is one of the most important planetary institutions that has certain rules and all countries in the region, as well as Serbia that pursues integration processes, not only in political but also in economic terms, should be on the line of such integrations. As for our tobacco industry, the domestic tobacco industry employs around 130,000 people, which is 6% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, and 11% of the total number of employees in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Such a significant number of employees and production provided by the production-processing distribution chain generates a significant excise income in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this excise income is likely to tell the minister more specifically about how much of this excise income was, and we have that in the projected budget. As for the individual solutions of this amending and supplementing law on tobacco, we of the DS believe that these are quality solutions, that the reduction of mandatory buying-in of tobacco will be shown to be correct over the longer term, it will increase the competitiveness of our economy, that is, this part of agriculture. On the other hand, certain solutions under this law will especially please entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, not about companies and businesses, but about entrepreneurs who, as a registered activity, have a retail trade in tobacco and tobacco products. You have seen from the proposed solutions that the work permit increases to two years. She was a year old, the fee for carrying out this action remained practically the same. At the level of two years, it will amount to 8,000 dinars. All the other solutions contained in this law, I see that fellow MPs have studied this legal text well, are now intensified to increase the competitiveness of domestic production and, on the other hand, to act stimulatingly in the opening of new jobs, and most importantly for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5521	The word has a folk MP Vidoje Jovanovic, and then Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5522	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have a draft law on amendments and amendments to the tobacco law, if we can see in the title, the government has already considered this bill on June 15th. Already on September 7th, the government has made one amendment, and we have a report from the Legislative Committee that accepts the bill and at the same time means that a legally possible amendment to the government is possible. I ask myself, I ask Mr. Minister, as well as the Government and our MPs – is it possible that in the period from June 15th, when the bill arrived at us, someone pressured us to change the percentage of the mandatory buy-in tobacco from 40% to 30% by December 31st, 2007. So, for the production of tobacco this year. I can understand that it's the pressure of the companies that bought our tobacco industry, which is first of all, Philip Morris, British Tabaco and Japan Tabako, which means our government, by putting this law into an emergency procedure, wanted in some way to create that obligation that it created in the protection of these companies, to fulfil its obligation. When it comes to the legal basis and the reasons, we have seen and heard here certain criticisms, and at the same time the reasons that are listed here when it comes to this bill is to bring our national legislation into line with rules that rule in the EU, and then with the WTO, and also with the CEFTA Agreement. There have been questions here whether we are EU members, and we certainly are, and all of this in the direction of reducing the mandatory purchase of tobacco, which is provided for in Article 9 of this law, and it is 30%, meaning, for 2007, and by announcing that since 1 January 2008, the obligation to buy tobacco will cease. First of all, I want to ask the Minister and the Government what Article 9 of this bill produces when it comes to producers of raw tobacco and those producers dealing with tobacco fermentation. I don't want to discuss the companies purchased by the tobacco industry Nis, Vranje and Sainta, but I want to say that a lot will be damaged by farmers or the simplest farmers who are involved in the production of raw tobacco and factories that are either privatised or not, and they deal with fermentation. Thus, one of our factories in Ljubljana is now engaged in fermentation and tobacco preparation for its final production, i.e. for the production of cigarettes. I especially want to say about the percentage of our tobacco industry's security, we've been making up about 60% for a while with domestic production. In particular, areas such as Vojvodina, Machvanski and Kolubar County, Pcinjski, Šumadijska and middle Serbia will be affected. We must not forget that the good part of our agricultural producers is leaned and alive from production and above all the processing of tobacco. I also want to say that the state did not make sure in this year 2007 to determine the amount of premiums when it comes to the production of tobacco and its processing. Here comes the ransom, in this season we still don't have the criteria for the premium. Some thinking is that it's a kilo, and that's probably thinking about achieving a higher quality, and on the other hand, it's going to be 1,300 kilograms. per hectare of the area of planted tobacco. Whether these are real criteria, I only warn that the Government, or the RES, when they propose to bear in mind that this year has been dry and that certain agricultural producers would not lose their right to a premium. It's something special to take care of. I have a complaint and I refer it above all to the Government, the government has made an effort to put this amendment law and amendments to the tobacco law, and it has not made an effort to determine the premiums that farmers expect quickly. I wonder, because agricultural producers expect the premiums to be first and foremost established in this year, in 2007, for 2008. I also want to point out that the final tobacco producers will mostly import tobacco from other countries because it is allegedly cheaper. Why is he cheaper? Because these countries, and we have them here in the environment, the former Republic of SFRY, have set premiums and subsidies to agricultural producers, and we haven't done that. We will, already in 2008, when this law enters into force since January, when we have the law to stop the mandatory buyout, surely we will have problems when it comes to total production, and this will reflect the areas I mentioned earlier. First of all, I would like to stress that in the municipality of Ljubovija we had 3,000 tonnes of production, and if a 30% ransom is required, that's about 900 tonnes of mandatory tobacco buyout. Also, one of the remarks is that when we formed the budget here, we said that we had set up funds for the implementation of agrarian policy, certain subsidies in the field of agrarian and livestock, and we have witnessed in the last few years that we have more and more problems when it comes to agricultural production. We point out that agriculture is a very important segment of convulsion in our country, but I think the government is paying insufficient attention to farmers. We've had problems in the raspberries, we've had problems in the production of the livestock stock, or in the surrender of live cattle, or pigs, and now we're sure to have a problem when it comes to tobacco. What, above all, the Government here pointed out, is that the effects of this law, i.e. this bill on amendments and additions to the law, are more equal to the position of all tobacco and tobacco producers, then, the comprehensive keeping of records, traders in little to have better conditions and more efficient and rational work of tobacco management within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. You heard the deputy president of the parliamentary group, Mr. Zark, when he said the SPS didn't agree with this bill and he won't vote for sure. We'll even support one amendment, I'm not sure who filed it, when it comes to erasing Article 9. It's just this percentage reduction that concerns a mandatory buy-in of tobacco. We want to protect agricultural producers and our intention is to keep this member in force by eradicating the previous provisions of the Law to protect agricultural producers. Therefore, the SPS will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5523	The word has a folk MP Slavisa Topalović, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5524	The essence of changing and supplementing this law, except for little cosmetics, is something else entirely. The big minister for the sale of Serbian economy, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, along with you, Mr. Minister, has, in time, sold Serbian tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj, sold the Serbian market and closed it, even more valuable in the same transaction. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? You were present at the time as the director of the Privatisation Agency, and since you have done a good job of privatising several businesses in Serbia where citizens have lost their jobs and without bread, you are then promoted as assistant or deputy minister. The sale of these factories, the "Duvanska Industry Nis" and "Duvanska Industry Vranje", took place during the mandate of Zoran Zivkovic, who was from the DS, as did you, Mr. Minister. As you know, the tobacco industry of Nis bought the Philip Morris, and the tobacco industry of Vranje bought British American Tobacco. So, these friends of yours, who during the bombing, planted all of Serbia with tape bombs, won the use of the Serbian market at low-priced factories by 2010. What was going on in the meantime? I think it's vital to the public of Serbia. The public should be aware of the essence of this bill of yours. In fact, there were two large factories in Nis and Vranj on the Serbian market before the sale of these two large factories, as you say, Mr. Minister, the Rovinj tobacco factory, which you also brought to Serbia by the yellow Democrats. For their cigarettes on our market, they have more than favourable customs duties, since Serbian products do not exist on the Croatian market. By signing the CEFTA contract, customs duties should be lifted. This is the contract you plan to ratify and repeat, Mr. Minister, release, in this case, the Croatian cigarette factory Rovinj from customs. Their goods, which are already taking up a good part of the Serbian market, would endanger part of the profits of the US and English company British American Tobacco and Philip Morris. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? Mr. Secretary has a lot of work to do. He doesn't care what we say about this pay phone. There is now a major problem in the Serbian government. A good part of the government is on the side of Croatia, which is in the interest of the CEFTA ratification. The Serbian government's largest lobbyist was Goran Zivkov in his day. The second part represents the interests of American and English. In these interests, the government of Serbia was most prominent, Aleksandar Vlahovic. They're not really for CEFTU, at least not until 2010, because you promised them they had a free-closed market just for them. There you have deceived them a little, because in this case the great competition of Rovinj from Croatia would be freed from customs, and it would also have the opportunity to reduce the price of cigarettes to suppress competition and its market that was promised and sold together with factories in Nis and Vranj. As you can see, you Democrats, besides your incompetent conduct of state policy, which leads Serbia from day to day to day and which is devastating for this people, are dragging into the problem and the foreign investors that you have brought into this Serbia. You're bringing them, Mr. Minister, to your policy on the insecure market. These are friends of yours who are heartily seeking to take away some of our territory, to take away our Kosovo and the Metohija. Then what's going on? Our uninformed prime minister, Kostunica, sends his envoy, Parivodic, to visit the conflicting sides. Parivodić goes to Croatia to Sanader and then Bat and Philip Morris to settle relations and reconcile foreign competition on the Serbian market, because you have divided them by your politics and machinations. This conflict of major economic interest between multinational companies, BAT and Philip Morris on the one hand and on the other side of the Rovinj tobacco factory from Croatia, as you say ministers, who exclusively represent some ministers from our government and the state of Croatia, connects and marks an absurd fact in Serbian privatisation. The fact is that our two tobacco factories from Nis and Vranj were sold for three times the value of real value. In addition to problems surrounding the division of the Serbian market and the competition of Rovinj from Croatia, Philip Morris was last year a recordr in Serbia for profit, 4.66 billion dinars, so in three years the factory's ownership was already paid off for the investment to buy a factory and invested money to expand production and the same factory. This is evidence and an obvious example that the factory was sold because of your merit, Mr. Minister, and thanks to Mr. Vlahovic, when it was paid in just three years. It is this democratic way of privatising, which has mutilated the Serbian economy, Mr. Minister. I suggest, in this context, that you adopt all amendments to the SRS, in order to correct this law which is poor and inapplicable in practice and that, by adopting the SRS amendment, it is so much changed and easier to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5525	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, and then Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5526	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not a model of anyone's cigarettes, to put away what's advertised, but I'm going to read what's written here -- you want a baby, pregnant women who use tobacco products risk losing a baby or damaging baby's health. On the other hand, it says: Smoking kills, tobacco smoke hurts people in your area. This is what we're talking about today. So we are talking about this evil today, which unfortunately fills the state budget and which is an excise product because of the fact that the excise duty increases the use of certain products in one country. This does not mean that this product cannot be subject to special interest in the government. Ever since Columbus brought this plant across the ocean to this day tobacco and tobacco products have produced a billion sick people, the loss of their lives, not to mention the other severe consequences that tobacco leaves. I had an obligation to say this, because according to the official assessment of our Ministry of Health, now in Serbia, approximately every penny made of the sale, i.e. the turnover of tobacco and tobacco products, is given one and a half dinar in Serbia for the treatment of the consequences of this monster. That's what we're talking about today, and that's why I wanted to start this debate with these few sentences, and this is all another issue of the personal choice of citizens, of our willingness to explain to them that they shouldn't be doing it, that we should give them health counsel, that we can help everyone if it's possible to stop eating this evil. This is evil. This evil since it exists in our country, often mentioned here Nis, is true, Moravska Baneva from Nis headquarters founded a tobacco monopoly years ago and thus joined modern countries of the age that began production, planting tobacco and cutting it, processing it, and to this day the production of tobacco and tobacco products is decreasing, but in Serbia, unfortunately, it is increasing. So Serbia today is the second country in Europe to spend tobacco on the main population, and we all need to do everything possible to reduce this and it is very difficult to talk about this as a budget income. That's very important to say, because this is the National Assembly, we are MPs, and our work here is not a simple job, but is a job that we should do with a lot of responsibility. To get back on the subject, unfortunately, the topic is ahead of us, and we need to get to the bottom of it. Dr. Zarko Obradovic made an official statement on behalf of the SPS. Mr. Vidoje Jovanovic, MP of the SPS, also spoke of this. Both said that we couldn't support the amendments and additions to this tobacco law. If we look at the stenograms of what SPS MPs said directly before the privatisation of the tobacco industry in Nis and Vranj, you can simply find that we also said that the sale was preceded by an amendment to the Excise Act, which provided the next thing – to reduce the excise duty on domestic cigarettes, which Mr Djelic then explained as a top contribution to respecting domestic production. A few weeks later, the tobacco industry was sold, and then these foreign cigars became domestic, otherwise it was fiscal capacity and the transaction was one billion dinars in 2003. So we simply have a duty to repeat it, because we know what this is all about. The second question, which I would only stick to for a few moments, is that of which Dr. Zarko Obradovic also spoke. Which is a force that can affect the government of a country that, during the preparation of a session, is practically forced to submit to MPs an amendment that would make 40% of production mandatory to buy out during a one-year tobacco campaign to 30%. I am afraid that I live in a country where it is possible for someone to use a telephone call or otherwise affect not the business life of Serbia, but the lives of Serbian citizens. Who can do it, he can do anything. Who in this way can communicate with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he can ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for anything and he can be the master of life and that's my thesis today, here, and that's what scares me. Otherwise, all of this is already seen – the percentage of the value of the tobacco industry's capital, the way it's sold, the market that's donated, the liberalisation to the unconscious, we've seen it all. But what we're seeing now is the real consequence of the delusion that you can thus bow to the market and thus give big national companies economics, and that they are not expected to later, as children say in the jargon, to apologize to you and this place, to rain when they think they should. So in Serbia there are several such systems that are able to do this. It is our duty to fight them together. The government or opposition, here is not a question, here is the question of our willingness, whether we can speak openly to the citizens of Serbia that there are such people, therefore, companies that do so in the following way, that practically the Government of Serbia is their own farthest and that it is a service for the execution of their mere desire to make a greater profit. It's a devastating fact in Serbia today, and everything else is something that we can look up and talk about and change the argument, but we can't do this because, if for no other reason, I couldn't vote as a man, not as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, because this is served from a place that isn't state, it's another place and I dare say mafia. That's why it's important that we recognize these phenomena, and at the cost of not knowing what economic damage the state makes we don't agree to these blackmails and concessions, there were other phenomena and I can remind you, but there's no sense there's going to be an opportunity in the budget with some other laws that are about to come. So, if something is in vulnerable democracy, the problem is that someone can significantly design a single legislative project and force one parliamentary majority and one parliamentary majority to vote, that means that the state has no sovereignty and that means that in this House these MPs do not represent the will of the citizens and that means that the passive voting right of all those who voted for them has been violated. As long as it's me and I'm here, I'm going to fight these kinds of phenomena, because it's not normal, none of us in the election campaign have agreed to be the mere executioner of what's been priced here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5527	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5528	Mr. Cvetkovic, I, here, read page 4, explanations, last paragraph. You wrote: "In order to comply with the Single Agreement on Free Trade in South East Europe". What is this agreement, I'm sorry, please? Do you have an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5529	CEFTA, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5530	I didn't ask you, Mr. Albianic, the minister is wise to shut up, because it's not that, if you happen to run out, because CEFTA, it has a different name and it's the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, what C, Mr. Albianic, and here the government is calling for J in South East Europe. Is there an agreement, Mr. Cvetkovic, that we don't know is signed? You say there is some free trade agreement in Southeast Europe, which the government signed since 19 December 2006 and, of course, given these dates, you said it would be ratified in mid-2007. Who's going to ratify that? Such an agreement, does it exist or does it not exist? If it's CEFTA, it's not ratified yet, we're done with the principle debate today. I doubt that'll work. That's one thing. It's very important to me. Secondly, does the ratification of this CEFTA agreement make certain provisions of that Agreement an integral part of our internal legal order? Just to remind you, why Vojislav Kostunica organised that we do not have a representative of the government who would answer us, and we have been waiting for the answer and here is what it says: "If the Agreement does not take effect for all parties in accordance with Article 2, it will enter into force on the 30th day of the deposit of the fifth instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval". In the light of this law, you have stated that Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have not yet been ratified, meaning that it has ratified seven of them, he has stepped in and how he can bind us. How can we be bound by these arbitration provisions, by banning the state from intervene and subsidising, etc. What are you doing? We really need to build a national corporation to eliminate the harmful consequences. Mr Cvetkovic, please tell me how this agreement will be ratified when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? Who will UNMIK submit to ratification? The agreement includes equal parties and who will ratify CEFTU as regards the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the signing of a person representing UNMIK and doing so as guardian in Kosovo and Metohija, will this be ratified by the Security Council of the United Nations, since he is the boss, he authorised them? If it had been ratified by maybe the Parliament, this Checku, are you aware of your commitments to the state with the CEFTE Agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5531	Time. The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then Veroljub Arsic, so you, Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending the tobacco law proposes a key amendment and refers to a reduction in the purchase or production of domestically processed tobacco by a producer of tobacco products from 50% to 40% and, of course, to the government where 80,600 tonnes are reduced to 1,200 tonnes, due to the poor year, and since 1 January 2008, the total abolition of this obligation. This way, it comes out to the manufacturers of tobacco products that exist in our country. However, it is to the detriment of the manufacturer of homemade tobacco. In order to protect domestic tobacco producers, customs measures have been proposed, and customs measures, to remind me, were, in fact, 15%, and 57.6% since 1 January, or customs contingents on imports of this tobacco. By reminding you that during the same period, Croatia, for example, all this time had an import duty of 38% and the European Union had 57% of the import of cigarettes. As regards the protection of the domestic tobacco producer, which will always be highly damaged, the state should take certain measures, certain incentives for purchase and production. However, by signing, or ratifying CEFTE, we will be able to identify what the state is going to have to take as a measure, any protection of domestic production of any incentive, as something that is not allowed in terms of disturbing competition, and our country will not be able to do so. Nothing we can do, nor agrarian measures, nor different contingents, nor these incentives, and thus manufacturers, not cigarettes, but tobacco, which is very important, will be significantly damaged. In our case, in economic terms, our biggest threat comes from a country that in CEFTI has the strongest economy and the strongest tobacco industry, not counting us. So that's Croatia and their'Rovinj tobacco factory'. Even official statistics in our country say, as the government agrees, that nearly 130,000 people or 6% were employed in the manufacturing distribution chain in the tobacco industry. You can imagine the effects they will have on these people and on that number of employees. It is a terrible thing that Serbia is doing that it leaves all future excise problems behind after the signing of the CEFTA Agreement and in fact puts them in the hands of a body that will certainly decide on the damage of Serbian interests, because in fact those who are tailoring and making such decisions will certainly not pay attention to our needs and to the problems of our producers. Even, speaking of bilateral relations with the Croatian Republic, Serbia has since 1997 and 1998, when our economy was surplus, i.e. when it covered export coverage, it was 233.5 and 133.2% respectively. So, the Republic of Serbia recorded a significant surplus, with 75.1% in 2006 and 70.3% respectively, meaning a surplus of 30% in the first seven months of 2007, with a decline in this coverage. Due to the customs rate introduced by 38% as a safeguard measure of its tobacco production, and you heard from Mrs Tabakovic that Americans with shoes and an additional pair of shoelaces, which is something like how the serious state protects its domestic production, Croatia exported cigarettes to Serbia in 2006 worth $11.38,000, which is an increase of 22.1% compared to 2005. For the sake of reminders, I will once again say that our rate of importing cigarettes is only 15% and that this is why the Republic of Serbia has not imported cigarettes into Croatia worth any of the only dollars. It is very important to point out that the investment of Croatian companies in the purchase of Serbian companies, therefore in the tobacco industry, will be much easier than that of our country, because their chains and strategic sales in our country are much more equal than ours. I would not single out our companies that have failed, and you all know them, all these years to get a favourable location for our trading centres, which could not go through their markets and buy Croatian factories, precisely because the political climate that Croatia has and is advocated, to say, publicly and from members of the government, is such that Serbian products turn their backs and say no to Serbian capital. This is justice to these or those reasons, but that is a pure political decision is quite clear. Even Croatia itself admits, and you can see that in their texts and their analysts and their media that their citizens would not agree to purchase goods from Serbia. This is illustrated by an example even though the company Philip Morris, to return to the tobacco field, owns, controls about 13% of the cigarette market in Croatia, those in Croatia import cigarettes from the European Union, not from Serbia that is much closer. The customs rate for imports of cigarettes from Serbia is 38% and for imports of cigarettes from the European Union is 19%. Serbia has an import duty of 15% in a worse position than the European Union. So, taking into account all this, we must point out that the basic duty of the Republic of Serbia is to protect the domestic producer, not to allow us to suffer the consequences of the poor, or the lack of vision in the future of this government and to introduce the protection of producers with excise duties and certain customs duties, except tobacco, especially for other products of strategic interest for the Republic of Serbia. I used to talk about the oil industry. The Republic of Serbia must be much more important to include pressure to allow much larger and more significant investment of capital in both Croatia and all other markets. This is how the Republic of Serbia will help its companies, help its export products, strategic products, and provide and retain jobs that should be given to workers in Serbia, not to help other countries, whether we like them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5533	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that the basic law, which changes and complements them, was written for the benefit of two economic groups, on the one hand, in favour of large multinational companies that were in negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the sale of the "Duvan industry Vranje" and "Duvanska industry Nis". On the other hand, other financial influences had people from underground who were illegally rich in tobacco trade. Of course, they include large importers. That this is true and that my claim goes in favor of the law itself. Because, for example, a tobacco processor must deposit a deposit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to carry out that activity, to have the appropriate technical and technological characteristics to do so. The sale also has to pay a deposit to the government of the Republic of Serbia in order to be able to deal with the sale of tobacco processing. Who doesn't have to? It doesn't have to be an importer. The importer doesn't have to have anything, just money to get tobacco and drag it to Serbia. Now, when the Law entered into force as a result of this, we have that many small ones who participated in tobacco and tobacco processing were unable to comply with the conditions of this previous Law – large deposits, large capacities, large accommodation space, so slowly, to say, they were removing themselves from the market and leaving space large. Now we're in a situation where the big ones no longer have any obligation, or they're already being reduced, and since 2009, it's completely abolished that they buy anything from domestic tobacco producers. What position did you place your domestic tobacco producers in? In that it could not have been any independent individual agricultural producer involved in the production of tobacco, but could have been a legal person, cooperatives and entrepreneurs. So, in a certain way, you've already eliminated all the ones that have the most, which, looking individually, have a small production, but they're playing a significant role in the tobacco market. You left room for two mobsters, Stanko Sobotić, called Frog and Peconia. We'll talk about them a little later, when there's a debate in detail, let's see the fates of those two and what they're dealing with today. There is just one more question: what does the government of the Republic of Serbia have to do with the companies that bought our tobacco industry? Will the adoption of this law, which corresponds most to the importers of tobacco, and of the countries in the environment most to Croatia, and what effect will this have on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and citizens? What was promised to customers of our domestic tobacco industry? What is written and what is signed because many of these documents are hidden from both MPs and the Serbian public? You know what, when someone buys tobacco industry, they don't just buy factories, halls, machines, buy the market. If you are in the law, in the agreement or in the contract you promised to protect that market that they buy, the consequences of which can be borne by the state of Serbia if you give it up, or if you cheat on them. That's the first consequence. Secondly, how much damage will the Serbian state suffer when you completely abolish the customs protection of tobacco processing? The third question is, how much damage are domestic tobacco producers going to have here, because of the citizens I'm going to say, growers, peasants? That's the problem. This country is able to always do as someone asks of it, and these are not Serbian citizens. A few months ago we had a law, you even went to the point where you listened to monopolies and adapted the law to monopolies, non-alcoholic drink producers. Here, now we're going sophisticated into the tobacco market, and every serious state protects its market, protects its production and protects its budget. This law certainly doesn't apply. You wrote the law and apparently there are some other changes in it. I can tell they're just cosmetics. You have deleted certain provisions of the law in some members and transferred them to another member. The license for the tobacco trade is no longer for a year, but for two years. The one-time fee for that permit is no more than 4,000, but 8,000. One more thing, in no way will be clear to me, reports are filed under the current law of the Ministry of Agriculture, persons enrolled in the register of manufacturers and tobacco processors. Now, with these changes and additions, we commit them to writing reports and tobacco management. I ask the question, why do we need the Ministry of Agriculture, if they file a report to the Ministry of Agriculture, or what do we need a tobacco management that hasn't had any effect on those reports so far, nor has anyone received them from that administration. Or is this about just having to pile up the state administration? We've submitted a few amendments, at least for this matter. Look at those amendments, Mr. Minister, at least in this technical section, to relieve this Ministry of Agriculture, and that the tobacco administration is finally doing its job. In particular, we will present much more facts that have occurred and preceded only the adoption of the tobacco law, which have been a consequence since it came into force and what will be the consequences of these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5535	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the time list of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is 18.48 hours. Since JUL's Minister of Information, Aleksandar Tijanic, we have received a letter that today's direct transfer of the National Assembly will take up to 18.55 on the second programme, and that by the end of the debate on this point, as the session's work has been planned, the transfer of that part of the session will also be postponed, on the second programme, from 21.30 hours. We, Serbian radicals, JUL's Minister of Information, Aleksandar Tijanic, have never, nor believed him, based on a letter that he sent and signed in person, it is his communist manner to communicate with the representatives of the people so that he behaves arrogantly and easily, so Serbian citizens pay a subscription. For this reason, because of the JUL's behaviour, Alexander Tijanic, at 18.55 hours, when we were told and received an official notice, here he is on the table of the chairman, whom I saw, personally signed by JUL-based Minister Aleksandar Tijanic, we Serbian radicals, who oppose such behaviour and abolishing the direct transfer of the Serbian Parliament, will leave for today's session and return tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Therefore, it is obvious to us people's MPs who are fighting for democracy, and JUL's Minister, Aleksandr Tijanic, is not that he cannot play with the representatives of the people in such a way, especially with us Serbian radicals, the citizens will understand this and know that they condemn his behaviour and you who hold him in power and whose, as the JUL minister, he is today a servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5537	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5538	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not deluding with the decision of Serbia's Television, we are deluding with the lack of authority of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who is unable to ensure the direct transfer of the Parliament's session. Everyone acts the way they're allowed. That's why I'm hoping that in the next few days we can bring these questions together that are now open here. Members of the SPS and Mr. Mrkonjic, vice-president of the National Assembly, elected from the SPS ranks, will leave the National Assembly meeting at 18.55 hours and will return to the hall when a direct television broadcast is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5539	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the terror of the director of RTS, I'll try only as long as there's transmissions to say part of my discussion tonight, and we'll leave the rest for tomorrow at 10.00. I expect the minister to be here tomorrow at 10.00 hours, to finish the debate as appropriate and then discuss other drafts of the law afterwards. Today, it was a question of who could order the Serbian government. They can order the bosses, because the Serbian government has bosses, mostly abroad. Some came by force, some came by money. Anyway, each of the ministers and every ministry has its own boss. I'll try to point out just a few facts for a short time. The fact is, this bill is only make-up, except for Article 29 where the point is. I remind you of the Law that we passed, however, the minister was doing privatisation, something a little bit of buraser, something else, but he wasn't the minister when we passed the tobacco law, when we reminded ourselves that actual tobacco producers, agricultural producers, who, among other things, were sowing tobacco and making little money to fill the family budgets would be destroyed. That bill literally led them to a beggar stick, made it impossible for them to produce further, rather than allowing some to buy that torment from peasants and to appear as producers. Today we have two types of manufacturers in this law, real tobacco manufacturers and those you call manufacturers, which are tobacco factories. Ladies and gentlemen, except for Article 29, in order for this law to look a little more serious, in many members they deleted, the minister deleted fermented and wrote processed tobacco. Here he gives us an explanation, he says: "fermentized tobacco is tobacco," of course this is deleted, "processed by technological procedure and by seasonal and off-season fermentation" (it's about tobacco 'oriental', 'pilep', 'power', 'oil', 'jabel') and thermal processing ('virginia' and 'berley'). The thermal treatment is the drying of tobacco in the dryer, and this second one is the stringing of tobacco and drying in the air in the sun. And now, rather than fermented, tobacco will be processed and until Article 29, paragraph 7, which is deleted and which is just telling the essence. The point is that tobacco factories were obliged to buy tobacco production in a quantity of two thousand tons... Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-13-0.u5541	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. He's not here. I give my word to MP Vitomir Plužarevic, he's not here. I give my word to the MP Radisa Ilic, she's not here. The word has a folk MP, Vlad Sekulic, not present. The word has a folk MP, Zdravko Topalovic, not present. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov, not here. The word has a People's MP, Bozidar Delic, not here. The word has a People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, is not there. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, he's not here. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Before I conclude the search, I would like the whole letter to be recorded for the record: the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Oliver Dulic, President – "Dear President, I am sending you a schedule for the transfer of assembly sessions for 13/14. September 2007. Today, the transfer of the assembly session will be broadcast from 10.00 to 18.55 hours on Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. If the Assembly continues its work after 18.55 shots of the session would be broadcast tonight from 21.30pm on Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. Friday, 14. Nine. In 2007, we will ensure a direct transfer of the assembly session from 10.00 to 18.55 on Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. If the assembly continues its work after 18.55 shots of the session, it would be broadcast the same night as 21.30pm on Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. A warm welcome, Serbian Radio Television Director-General Aleksandar Tijanic. "It's about complete notification. I'm concluding a principled search on this agenda point. Next item tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you very much.
