ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10757	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, yesterday, and even earlier days, the SRS Parliamentary Group was accused of obstructing Parliament's work, that we, in fact, do not want Serbia to have a Constitutional Court, that Serbia has judges of the Constitutional Court. It is said, the radicals will not respect the Constitution and the law. Of course, all that's not true. SRS MPs, I also remind the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, have been insisting since 9 October that the illegal and anti-business decisions on the election of Belgrade mayors, the president of the assembly, the deputy speaker of the assembly and the acting mayor, be annulled. It's very complicated to say. We've been trying to explain in the past days that we're right, that these decisions have to be annulled. We asked through the Committee on Local Self-Government, from Resort Minister, Mr Milan Markovic, yes, in accordance with Article 111. The law on local self-government, it responds, to order the City Assembly to annul these decisions. I want to inform the National Assembly and the public of Serbia that Mr. Milan Markovic finally did the job. We received a copy of the memo that Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, sent to the Belgrade City Assembly and I will only take one sentence from that letter, which on the five-page page, to read, for the sake of the minutes. ''For these reasons', and above all are the reasons, and these are the reasons that the SRS MPs spoke of – ''for these reasons, the decisions of the City Assembly on their choice', the choice of these persons I spoke of, ''they are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for which they must be abolished, and the procedure of electing the president and his deputy are repeated. Otherwise, it is undeniable that the contested decisions taken by the competent authority and with the required majority of the committees, and the legal consequences of putting out of force of these decisions relate only to the future’. I read this second sentence because this is why we are in a great hurry to pass the Constitutional Court law, to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, and we will continue to seek the assessment of constitutionality and legality for all these decisions. Therefore, I conclude, the MPs of the SRS will today very actively participate in the debate on the Constitutional Court law in particular. We have no reason, unless a new reason arises, and we will not intervene in the Rules of Procedure, we will work solely on the agenda and we will always do so when the parliamentary majority tries to impose force instead of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10758	National MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 4th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Željko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must take this opportunity, under Article 225, to inform you of an unkind event that took place two days ago in Medvedja. A moment ago, while participating in the Security Committee's work, I also informed the representatives of the MUP who attended the Committee's meetings. On 14 November 2007, Mr. Ristic Milorad, employed at the Gornja Jablanica OS, Medvedja, who otherwise teaches Serbian language and literature, attacked Mr. Sahiti Fitim, with four other members of Albanian nationality, and inflicted serious physical injuries on him. Otherwise, Mr. Sahiti Fitim is the born brother of the deputy president of the Medvedz municipality, Mr. Flejorim Sahit. Why am I telling you all this? Because this man has already caused more than 30 acts of violence against the citizens of the Medvedje municipality, mostly Serbian nationality, and for this he did not adequately comply with the country's laws. Mr. Minister, why did I answer? To take advantage of your presence and ask you to check whether the municipal government is putting pressure on the judicial authorities to have this criminal released immediately by his actions, or to take action against him and not lead. This is very important, because this leads to the harassment of the citizens of Serbian nationality, so yesterday at the OS, where, otherwise, Mr. Sahiti, a member of the School Council, was a strike, no professor worked, children were present due to the sense of threat and fear they have due to this individual or his family, which is in the grip of the Medvedja municipality's top government. I think it's in the interest of our country and our people to examine this as soon as possible, and I don't think I should ask a special parliamentary question about this, but to get an answer from you in a relatively short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10760	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Milentijevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10761	Article 225. Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, I would like to inform you, fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the general public, that at last night's session, the Committee has made a unanimous decision to invite all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija not to go to the parliamentary and local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, for well-known reasons, both for both us and the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10762	Thank you. Is anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226? (No) So, we leave the rest of the reports to these members for the end of the day. National MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 4th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government is proposing that the amendment not be accepted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10763	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, the SPS has decided to comment on this amendment to Article 5 of the law because it believes that this amendment should not be voted on, because this amendment, in a way, wants to abolish what represents the identity of the Serbian people. We'd like to remind you that it's in article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly written, in Section 1, that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. The identity of a nation represents exactly the language and the letter, and everything the people can write about themselves, has the right to write in their own language and in their letter, and their literature, and their customs, their history and all other sights. He who loses his tongue, and especially his letter, will lose all his identity, and especially the letter withdraws his loss of language. We have witnessed recent events, that in one country, a hilly, in the Balkans, there was a Serbian-Croatian language, which no longer exists as an official language. New languages have come to his field, which are Slovenian, Croatian, I guess, Bosnian, so called, Montenegrin, Macedonian, Serbian, unfortunately, as official languages in the territory where there was once a single language, and this is just witnessing the collapse of a country. With this intensity, whether or not the Serbian language should disappear, whether in the territory, in the unique territory where the Serbian language is spoken, new languages will now be introduced as official languages, which are Albanian, Presevo, possibly duchy, perhaps also who knows what. The SPS wants to point to this possibility and to those people who predict this possibility. Unfortunately, as of October 5th, such a systematic destruction of everything that is Serbian, of everything that represents our identity begins. Unfortunately, we have a new world order and a new order that is now collecting reflections of the new world order. Unfortunately, we have one negative tendency, which is that in our official Serbian language, they are deliberately indented, many times and needlessly, some foreign words, the words of some foreign languages, are particularly aggressive English in this regard. What about the Esperant? Did anyone mention Esperanto today, and that's one fiction, it's just one deception that there's something international, such as fiction, like the United Nations, that's basically international conventions that normally only respect weaker ones, they don't respect them. That is why the SPS wants to point out the need to keep the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, that it is imperative to keep it as only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10764	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Radoslav Radovanovic. I am informing the MPs that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today at 10:30 in the Green Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10765	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, before I explain why we think it is necessary to supplement this article of the 11th proposed law, I would like to inform you that today is the anniversary of Vienna. On today, a year ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia in Zrenjanin imposed temporary measures, so I want to congratulate all citizens of Zrenjanin today and to wish for this to last. They've blossomed since then, and they're doing well. Article 11, paragraph 1, says - The Constitutional Court makes 15 judges, who are elected and named in a manner prescribed by the Constitution. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina suggests that after that attitude we add an amendment and remain an integral part of this law, and that the position reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Autonomous Province Assembly, which concerns a candidate for a judge who must be from the territory of autonomous provinces". Why are we suggesting this? You heard the other day in these intense discussions about candidates, about members of the Constitutional Court, that we only remembered to propose a candidate to cover the interests of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We were only able to see how the Constitutional Court should also be a person who belongs to a national minority, who is expert and who can do the jobs that are expected of someone who deserves the trust of this National Assembly and who is part of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. In order for this to not happen in the future, it is our proposal that autonomous provinces be questioned and that they give their opinion on whether anyone is proposed by anyone for the Constitutional Court can do these jobs on behalf of autonomous provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10766	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the amendment submitted by colleagues Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton to Article 11. It's a bill of law. I propose to the Members of Parliament not to vote on this amendment in the day of the vote. The MPs of the SRS won't do it, because he's a member of the 11th. The bill absolutely complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and has no place to add the new stance proposed, which says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Autonomous Province Assembly on a candidate for a judge who must be from the territory of autonomous provinces. In Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been clearly written to elect and appoint judges of the Constitutional Court. I will remind you of paragraph 3, which says the National Assembly elects five Constitutional Court judges among the 10 candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic appoints five judges of the Constitutional Court among the 10 candidates proposed by the National Assembly, and the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court appoints five judges among the 10 candidates proposed by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors at the joint session. Who will be on the list of the President of the Republic, who will be on the list of the National Assembly, who will be on the Supreme Cassation Court, on individual proposals, of course, we can discuss in the National Assembly, we can give our estimates, we can present the facts and facts of the proposed candidates, but we can use some long forgotten keys, that it must be this or that, simply, it can't stand in this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives all rights to members of national minorities as well as to Serbs, who are designated in the Constitution as a constituent people, i.e. the state of Serbia as a state of Serbian people and all other citizens living in Serbia. Of course, it should be taken into account in each election, both in this Parliament and in the Government, and in the Constitutional Court, and in all courts, from municipal to Supreme, about representing and members of national minorities in all state functions. That's what the SRS has always stood for and what we stand for. We, among other things, resented the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic for not having members of the national minorities on his list. That doesn't mean we can accept this amendment, because what does the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina mean? Does this mean that it refers exclusively to an opinion for a candidate who is a member of a particular national minority or may be a member of the Serbian people, and that the AP is giving its opinion, it is completely illogical, unconstitutional, illegal, and therefore this amendment should not be accepted. Of course, I repeat, it must be taken care of, and the proposings should take care of that on their lists of judges of the Constitutional Court they offer members of national minorities. You see, there has been an ongoing debate here these days about representatives of national minority parties as candidates for the Constitutional Court, about Mrs Zejnapi Kavrajic, if I remember correctly. There we have had a very unpleasant situation, that members of the same, Muslim, people here are arguing about whether this candidate is good enough or not. It is not disputed that the debate was about both the candidate and her qualities, but the problem was that it turned into a debate about whether anyone loves Muslims or does not like Muslims. Of course, as far as the SRS is concerned, there is a clear attitude, we also love Muslims, as well as all other peoples and national minorities living in Serbia. The proof of this is also Ambassador Suleiman Spaho, an MP of the SRS, but we have appealed then, and now, that such elections, or any election, are no reason to have any international or international conflicts. Because we need to be aware who lives in the state of Serbia, that all people must be equal and that what is popularly called - positive discrimination cannot be present, because any discrimination is discrimination, whether it is positive, whether it is negative. I repeat, this amendment should not be accepted, first of all, because it is contrary to Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Petrovic, as a representative of the promoter, the 11th member to whom the amendment has been tabled is a good member, is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and do not, but I see that the Government is not, and neither are you to accept it. And you, colleagues, in the voting day, vote against this amendment, because such amendments, or such solutions, can only bring dissension. We don't need that in Serbia. So we have to take care of it. I didn't hear you overly criticized Boris Tadic because he did not have a national minority representative in his proposal. That's a shame. Is it possible that out of the 10 candidates, there were no representatives of the national minority who met the conditions of the Constitutional Court judge? We will see what will happen in the voting day and with this single representative of the national minority who goes as a proposal from the president of the Assembly, or confirmed by, in a way, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although only in the sense that all these candidates meet the requirements. It is not good that we are trying through the form of the protection of national minorities, i.e. the rights of national minorities, to push through some amendments and some ideas, I guess no one dares to say - it is an amendment that has come from the representatives of the national minority and now no one can comment on it. Of course, we must, we must advocate, I repeat, for all the rights of the national minorities, we have advocated this and when we adopt the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the SRS actively participated in the creation and, in general, in the procedure and adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this constitution, as well as in the previous one, when it comes to the rights of national minorities, i.e. human and minority rights, did not have any flaws, i.e. There are no major changes in that part either. So in the state of Serbia, human and minority rights have never been compromised, nor are they at risk today. The SRS will always advocate human and minority rights in the state of Serbia. In addition, this is also the example of our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, in The Hague tribunal, who, I remind you, last year at this time strike hunger to fight for fundamental human rights, not only his own; he fought at that time for his human rights, but by his victory, he also created certain principles that would apply to all people on the globe who are at risk of fundamental human rights, such as Vojislav Seselj, who were at risk in The Hague. We in the Serbian Radical Party have never had that kind of problem, and we have never hesitated to say clearly and loudly that we will not allow any new separatism in Serbia. We have a problem between Kosovo and Metohija, a hotspot, an acute problem, which this parliament must discuss. It is high time that we can no longer be informed from the newspapers about what representatives sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Negotiating Team, where they say, what they write to, and so on. This parliament must deal with the problem. This parliament must give new instructions to our representative team, the Negotiating Team. Of course, first of all, we need to know exactly what's in the papers, what the media is publishing, what's really going on and what's the outcome of the negotiations so far. This is an appeal, Mr. Dulic, to you -- to urgently schedule a special session of the National Assembly, which would discuss exclusively the problem of the final resolution of Kosovo's and Metohija's status. We are approaching December 10th and we must not deal with any side issues, and in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, today every issue is a side issue. I hope you think about it, Mr. Dulic, or maybe Dulic isn't sitting here anymore... (No) So, you should think about soon having a session that will have only that topic. However, I repeat, we will not allow - until this problem is resolved, that new problems are opening up for us. Serbia is a single state, and of course we mean both Kosovo and Metohija. All the rights to be given to representatives of national minorities were contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and any law that is in that sense in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, each proposal, will have the support of the SRS MPs, and we will always oppose the amendment or any statement and reaction such as that contained in the amendment of counterparts Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10768	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. I'll tell President Dulic what you said before I agree with that. It is the People's MP Zvonko Stevic, about the amendment, and then the MP Slobodan Maras, about the amendment, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would like to remind the public that we have another province in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. This report of mine may be more about Article 2, but I was prevented for objective reasons and I am using the right to report to the Rules of Procedure on the amendment. I would like to ask the minister whether the Constitutional Court, unlike the previous one, and in what way, will protect the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens and national minorities in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. with a special reference to the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I want to get to know the public that in the preamble of the Constitution we said: "Departing from the state tradition of the Serbian people, the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, starting from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal, external and political relations". Furthermore, in Article 166. The Constitution states: "The Constitutional Court is a independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and binding'. I would like to warn you, Minister, because you know this, there will probably be a remark or suggestion that there are international peacekeeping forces, a peacekeeping mission, and in Article 109, where there is co-operation with state and other bodies and organisations and international co-operation, according to the Constitutional Court, international co-operation with foreign courts and international organisations, in accordance with its jurisdiction. I reported on the grounds that in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the Serbian people and other non-Albanian nations, one of the fundamental rights stemming from the Constitution, which is the right to freedom, the right to work and regulation, has been compromised. Is that in accordance with the law, Mr. Minister? As a Socialist Party, after what happened in 1999, we adopted a regulation on the status of persons with disabilities and persons who were working in Kosovo and Metohija, and you, just to avoid applying our regulation, have adopted the same regulation in 2003, which reads: "Employees in the public authorities and bodies of local self-government, public enterprises whose founder is the Republic and local self-government from the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, institutions in the field of health, education and other public services from the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, whether they live in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija or temporarily, have left the AP of Kosovo and Metohija without their will, according to the conclusions of the Yugoslav Committee for Co-operation with the UN Civilian Mission since 24 January and 29 May 2000, have maintained their status as employees and bodies. '"These conclusions established a way of paying the salary, or profit. It's been eight years, and this regulation is still in effect. This Regulation has produced a number of irregularities and injustices. I think it's about time, and we, like the SPS, advocate to pass a status definition law, so that many irregularities and inconveniences that people are experiencing can be cleared up. The right to property, the right to return and, when it comes to local self-government, also acts and regulations that have been passed. In fact, you invented a term that is not known in the positive legal regulations, in 2000, so you introduced so-called. Coordinators downstairs. Until today, that hasn't changed. They're not co-ordinators, they're community presidents. Also, in the Constitution, in Article 192, when it comes to municipalities, it states: "The government is obliged to suspend the exercise of a general act of the municipality which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure within five days to assess its constitutionality or legality. Under certain laws, the government can disband the congregation of the municipalities. At the same time as disbanding the assembly of the municipality, the government appoints a temporary body that performs the tasks of the assembly, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly of the municipality." No temporary measures were imposed, no municipal council was introduced, but individuals were detained, so-called. Coordinators, and from this collective management, have gone into incoherent management, where people who are not professional are also brought in, have no experience, have no proper professional training, and then you know what comes out of it. Also, I would like to ask, Mr. Minister, whose order and order, by which law are citizens, citizens of Kosovo and the Serbian Nationality Metohija punished, when they commit a traffic violation, as foreign citizens? So, when he commits an offence, in case there is no sufficient amount of funds for justified reasons, traffickers bring them in and take them to the judge for violations; there is no procedure, there is no procedure to get a solution, but it is an emergency procedure. Are we citizens of a foreign country, are we citizens of the second row if these citizens are paying for proper registration and all the papers from the MUP? There have been a lot of words here, these days, in the principle debate, about the difficult situation in the judiciary. This also shows a strike of judicial employees, if only the state of justice and courts from Kosovo and Metohija. As an MP, I would like to get information from the Department of Justice about the state of the courts in the KIM area, because they are totally inoperable and inadequate conditions. One more conclusion. For the past eight years, no judge with references, from judges who have worked in KIM for years, very professionally and very professionally, very serious crimes, in the interest of the state, has been elected, which means that there is a certain antagonism in KIM space. Just in the end. How many unresolved problems, irregularities and injustices towards the people of Kosovo and Metohija, when we choose the Constitutional Court and pass constitutional law, just to solve cases with KIM, I do not believe it will arrive and be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10770	I thank the People's MP, Zvonko Stevic. The People's MP Slobodan Maras has the word, and then, about the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. And you can do 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Marash. It's not 15, it's 13, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10771	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment, and above all, inspired by the address of Ms. Verica Radete, who tried to change the thesis in a very, very specific, skillful way, or to transfer this whole story to the story of the national minorities. Therefore, I would take the opportunity to quote, first, Article 11. Constitutional law, which says the Constitutional Court makes 15 judges who are elected and appointed by the Constitution. At the time of entry into office, the judges shall take an oath before the President of the National Assembly and the text of the oath shall read, etc. The amendment submitted by colleagues from the Vojvodjanski MEPs reads as follows: ''Article 11 after Article 1 adds a new position which reads: 'The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Autonomous Province Assembly, which refers to a candidate for a judge who must be from the territory of autonomous provinces. ''That's why I would quote Article 172. The Constitution, which in its position 4, says: "From each of the proposed lists of candidates, one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of the autonomous provinces. ''There is no mention of national minorities in this article anywhere, and, as I understand it, fellow Vojvodian MPs did not allud that one of those who will be proposed must be from the ranks of national minorities, one who was proposed from the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, and it would be logical that the Vojvodina Assembly should also give their opinion on it. By chance, on the list of the Republika Srpska Assembly, one of the proposed candidates, proposed by one parliamentary group, is a member of the national minorities, but it could have happened that he is a member of the Serb people. In this context, I see nothing wrong with standing in Article 11, to allow the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, or the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, to give its opinion on this candidate. Unfortunately, on the other list, we didn't have a candidate from Vojvodina and I agree with my colleague -- we should have had one candidate from the Autonomous Region of Kosovo, if she is, in your opinion, still our component. I think that this amendment is in place and that it cannot treat Vojvodina so that it is only satisfied with the 184th of this constitution and that it is said that 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget goes to the region of Vojvodina budget; Vojvodina is worth much more than 7%. I think by accepting this amendment we would show that we really have an autonomous province whose opinion we care about. At the very end of the line, and it concerns the opinion of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly, so I assume that this opinion would be in agreement with the opinion of the proposed candidates. I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10772	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The Republic has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10773	Thank you, colleague Marash, for the opinions you made at the beginning of your presentation, but in the follow-up, of course, you are wrong. It is clear what is behind this amendment, not because it comes from that parliamentary group, which has proposed the amendment, but that it is from any other parliamentary group. Besides, and your argument with, I don't know, 7%, what it's worth to Vojvodina and what it's worth to Vojvodina, etc., is simply not acceptable, at least not to the MPs of the SRS. If we're going to lower the view of the lower territorial organisation unit, then let's start looking for the opinion of every candidate in the municipality where the court was working, if he was working in court, or where the company he was working in, then the opinion of the municipality where he was born, and the opinion of the local community where he lives. We can't ignore the provisions of the Constitution that way, Mr. Marash. It is certainly very clear to you, as well as to the applicants of the amendments, that you are trying in another way to point out now as a problem something in Vojvodina. I really don't see what the problem is, at least as far as this solution is concerned in law. I repeat, the candidates were spoken of and can be spoken of. Speaking of candidates, we could ask the President of the Republic why there are no representatives of the national minority, why there are no representatives from Kosovo and Metohija? Why isn't there a representative from Vojvodina? Why is there no representative from Valev, why is there no representative from The Tower? Why isn't there... And so on? That's not the point. The bottom line is that every candidate needs to meet the law of a certain, prescribed condition. Of course, I repeat again, that what is the fact in Serbia is respected. The fact is that national minority representatives live in Serbia and every state body should take care of it. The basis for this is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it is enough to move in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees all human and minority rights to all those living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. More than that is no longer necessary and especially inappropriate is your objection to the 7% of the Vojvodina budget and the value of the Vojvodina vote. The voice from Vojvodina, from any city from Vojvodina, in every context, counterpart Maras, is worth as a voice from Kosovo Mitrovica, as a voice from Valjevo, as a voice from Zemun, as a voice from Vranja, from any place in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10774	I thank the Verse of Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Slobodan Maras, then Rajko Baralić - according to the Rules of Procedure on the amendment? About the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10775	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Radeta, that's why I quoted Article 172, paragraph 4. The constitution, which says, "With each of the proposed lists of candidates, one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of the autonomous province." You've tried to expand that story here, and your colleague Markovic has helped you - from the local community, every municipality, to get an opinion. No, no mention of local communities or municipalities here is mentioned to be from the territory of an autonomous province. For that reason, I thought it would be correct to obtain the opinion of the highest authority in the province, which is the assembly of the AP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10776	The word is Mrs. Vervain Radeta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10777	Mr. Mr. Gristle, it's not exactly the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have an advantage over the replica, but I'm guessing you wanted it for continuity. Comrade Marash, when you read the position of Article 4 of Article 172 which says, "On each of the proposed lists of candidates, one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of the AP", there is nothing controversial about it. Read the previous position, which says: "The National Assembly elects five judges of the Constitutional Court, among the ten candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic appoints five judges of the Constitutional Court, among the ten candidates proposed by the National Assembly. The General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court appoints five judges, among the ten candidates who propose the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors at the joint session." It is not necessary, in relation to this constitutional provision, to obtain any opinion other than the President of the Republic -- for one group, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- for the second group, and for the third-third - the Supreme Cassation Court. In this room are the people's MPs from Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija, from all parts of Serbia. They represent the voters who sent them to this House. They here convey the opinion of their voters, as every MP does, as the SRS MPs from the Vojvodina territory represent their constituents, but not as some autonomy, but as citizens of Serbia, therefore, fully equalised in all rights and obligations, regardless of whether they are from Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina or any other part of Serbia. When you read, don't just read attitude 4, which you seem, in fact, it doesn't seem to you, but you are fully aware of it, stressing that need to be on each list one candidate from the territory of an autonomous province. I said, and we said that in the previous days, we resented Boris Tadic for having no candidates for national minorities and from certain parts of the Republic of Serbia. That's not controversial. There is no room, compared to the position of Article 3, 172, which I just quoted, for this amendment. He would have been an unconstitutional member of the law if this amendment had been accepted. There is only a proposal from the National Assembly and there is no possibility of incorporating what has been proposed to the amendment by colleagues Jerkov and Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10778	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then MP Rajko Baralic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my distinguished colleague, Verica Radeta, has said, the proposed amendment is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government did well to refuse this amendment. Those who have proposed this amendment hide behind the idea of Vojvodina autonomy. In fact, they want Vojvodina as a republic, they want Vojvodina which will be a state and which will be something different than the state of Serbia. All those who seek legislative, executive and judicial authority for Vojvodina, while at the same time saying they are only for duchy autonomy, whether they are hypocritical, or do not know what they're talking about. A political entity that has legislative, executive and judicial authority is not an autonomous province, but a state. The SRS is fighting against such dangerous ideas. If today were Rajačić's living patriarch Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic, they would probably have their hair on their heads if they saw who today represents the idea of Vojvodina's autonomy. Those who today are fighting for alleged duchy autonomy, and it's extended, with legislative, executive and judicial authority, as they've been talking for more than 15 years, actually have nothing to do with the original idea of autonomy in Vojvodina. The original idea of autonomy in Vojvodina was created in the middle of the XIX century and represented by the best Serbs who then lived in the areas of southern Hungary. The purpose of the autonomy at the time was to preserve Serbia's national and religious identity in an alien, Habsburg monarchy. Sam Jasa Tomic, in 1918, when it was clear that Serbia would win, that southern Hungary would return to Serbia's frameworks, said the idea of Vojvodina autonomy should be rejected, that it was "Austrian stardust". That idea made sense in a foreign state. There is no point in demanding legislative, executive and judicial authority and fighting for some extended duchy autonomy in the country of origin of Serbia. Therefore, those who today advocate duchy autonomy are historical forgeries and, in fact, behind the idea of Vojvodina's autonomy is a very dangerous project, which is to separate Vojvodina from Serbia and become an independent and independent state. That it was so testified by LSV leader Nenad Canak, who even issued Vojvodina passports, urged foreign states to open diplomatic and consular representations in Novi Sad, etc. Two days ago, this gentleman who explained the amendment put the cover of the 1974 Constitution here behind the pay phone. The constitution brought great evil to the Serbian people, divided Serbia, divided the Serbian people, and, if nothing else, corrected a major historical injustice when the Serbian state finally became a single state in 1989 and 1990, respectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10780	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10781	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Jerkov and colleague Marton have submitted an amendment and there is no problem. The government said the amendment did not comply with Article 172. The Constitution. I find that argument quite acceptable, logically, to us in the SPS. Let me say something about the amendment, though. So, the amendment has one feller. The amendment requires that an AP Assembly's preliminary opinion be obtained on a candidate for a Constitutional Court judge from Vojvodina. It's not said, it's not explained, there's no explanation, which would mean if the amendment was accepted. For example, what would it mean if that opinion were negative or positive? How would this area be arranged? That's not possible. The political views of the SPS are contrary to what is the subject of this amendment. That's not unknown. In our country's political system, in one system that exists in the largest number of countries in the world, there is a basic democratic principle: one man - one vote. National MPs from Vojvodina represent their electoral body in the way they think it is best, but this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia, as you know, was a single electoral unit under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. On the proportional list, people were running, run by political parties or coalitions and, based on the results and censorships that have exceeded, parties that now make up the parliamentary majority. We are representatives of Serbian citizens here. Each of us represents the state of Serbia with 0.4% of its sovereignty. That, therefore, is quite clear. As for the political sound of this amendment, he is also not unknown to us, we disagree with him. Let's not argue with our colleagues to do what they're doing, it's their political project. We strongly oppose him. Yesterday, Vojvodina became a member of the Alpe-Adria-Panonia Group. I want to say that in 1984 I was a signator of the declaration against the political initiative of the Alps-Adria, because even then I thought it was not normal and that it was carrying some other idea, not what was in the declaration of what was a politically convenient moment for some factors, which were not then called the NGO in Yugoslavia, but later became it. So our job, among other things, is to recognize such political action, to oppose it. The SPS has done the most it could at one point to bring the Constitution of Serbia in a completely different way, so I am slowed by my fellow MPs from this parliamentary group, which is also their political project, which is legitimate and we do not dispute with them the right to advocate it. All we're saying is that what they're up for is always going to come across a sharp SPS intervention. For us, Vojvodina, like any other part of Serbia, is Serbia. There are certain benefits given to it by the Constitution, which was adopted in the Constitution prescribed. Until these things change, and I hope they never will, we cannot have a different opinion about it, nor are we allowed to bring acts in this congregation that would be contrary to what the Constitution says. So, there will be amendments like this, and I understand that there are various attempts to get a political programme into the form of amendments, legislative projects, etc. I hope he does not get majority support in Serbia. I can say I'm absolutely sure of it. All this other stuff is a parliamentary struggle. Finally, just to say one more thing, it is not true that all the candidates proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia are. At least one didn't, but since I didn't want to make a statement about it, there's no point in me even pleading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10782	I thank the People's MP. About the amendment, please. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10783	First of all, I wanted to thank you for this love that my colleague Radeta passed on to all of us. I'm glad for Mr. Spaha, but I'm asking you not to love me the way you love him. I have those who love me, and I care about them very much, so I try to love them back every day. I see you and respect you as a colleague, and I have great respect for you and I believe that you are one of the most conscious and correct members of this high house. I don't see any reason for us to love each other, to respect ourselves – yes, if that's what you think. Not that I'm going to, but I'm going to try all my work to make it so. Neither I nor my colleagues who proposed this amendment intended to challenge all of this and break the spear around this, whether autonomy and autonomy were written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Those who tried and promoted, and eventually helped to adopt a constitution like this, to be adopted by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, wrote the beginning of how autonomy should be arranged in the state, or the Republic of Serbia. We think it's a lead, because there's a lot of things that aren't fixed and what needs to be done to make it so. I absolutely understand the SRS MPs who insist, the programme, regulated, is now giving good results for them, for Belgrade to be the backbone of the Republic of Serbia, that everything is happening in Belgrade. I guess some "grey dick" is supposed to be born, God forbid, from the SRS, so he can take the whole Republic of Serbia, and the rest of us need to tighten our belts, cramp our stomachs, and everything else that's very unpopular and painful for us. Autonomy, as a colleague noted, came to Vojvodina in the mid-19th century. It went through different stages; first it was as he said, but later, I guess, historically, or at the will of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, once Yugoslavia, was going on as it was. Since this intense SPS intervention, Vojvodina and Serbia are located today. I would ask that you no longer intervene, because you have no reason to. Of that and of the very good things that the SRS used to say, the best thing I've ever heard is the Duke of the Dukes, and it's a very good program, a program that I absolutely support, and I'll always stand behind it. In the composition of the Republic of Serbia - Vojvodina to the Vojvodina. I guess the Dukes and everyone else knows best what's good for them. Whether anyone can represent in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, should say that home, the highest home of the AP Vojvodina, is that so or not. About whether it's a separatist, whether someone's betraying passports, whether it's this or that. Take, please, the answers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the parliamentary question of one of the MPs, read them, and you will see if the League is this, or the League is that. It offends me as a man when someone tells me I'm a separatist, when they call me a traitor. I'm not, nor will I ever be. I was raised to do what my mother and my country, my people asked me to do, without talking, that's how it's always been and always will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10784	I thank Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The reply was requested by MP Vjerica Radet, then Aleksandar Martinovic, and on the amendment - Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10785	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to react to that initial presentation of my colleague Radovanovic, when he called me by my name and name. In the follow-up to his debate, I simply couldn't help but answer the word, not to explain a few things. Then, of course, I'll mention the beginning. It's worrying, Mr. Radovanovic, that you said you didn't love anyone but that narrow circle of your people, probably family members. They repeat that the SRS and, programically, each of us, individually, love Serbia, love everyone who lives in Serbia, respect all human and minority rights and we are proud of it. The thesis is completely reversed, Mr Radovanovic, that the SRS advocates the theory that Belgrade is some kind of a centre, and that all other cities and all other places in Serbia are irrelevant. That's not true, it's the opposite. The SRS advocates the right, true decentralisation, is also written in our programme, for decentralisation that goes from municipality to Republic, or local self-government and republican authorities. It is true that we are programmeically in favour of eradicating autonomy, but when this constitution was passed, we have accepted that the AP Vojvodina remain, due to the specific situation currently happening with the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, if it weren't for that problem, we'd be standing up for that kind of decentralisation. Every day, almost every day, if any of the Serbian radicals appear or in the media or for this speaker, if the topic is development, even development, etc., you can hear that representatives of the SRS tell the representatives of the government, now these, the previous ones -- so every time we say that if you stand up for it, and if you truly, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do something for the even development of each place in Serbia, you will have the support of the SRS. That is our position, but we think that all the places in Serbia should develop, Mr. Radovanovic, as well as the Black Treva, Babusnica, Knic. We, unlike you, do not single out only the Vojvodina, we do not single out only Belgrade. What you said was that you were afraid of him not showing up, as you said, God forbid, some SRS prick who would be in charge of Belgrade, you know, I understand that you don't like it, but you have no reason to be afraid. You will soon see, when radicals are a republican government and when we have the President of the Republic, the Mayor of Belgrade and other cities, you will live much nicer and better, we promise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10786	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica of Mr Radovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10787	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am completely staying with what I said. The idea of Vojvodina's autonomy in the 19th century was represented by the largest Serbian nationalists, those to whom Serbia is calling today. Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic, patriarch Josif Rajačić, Dr Zarko Miladanovic, were the best Serbs in southern Hungary and were persecuted by the Austrian authorities. Svetozar Miletic has been a slave for about 30 years in Pest for Serbian reasons, and you today, at the beginning of the 21st century, pose as the alleged sequels of the duchy tradition, in fact, completely extruded and mutilated that original duchess autonomial idea. The purpose of the autonomy at the time was to protect Serbs from denationalisation, from losing religious or cultural identity, in one state that has openly worked not only against Serbs, but against all Slovenes. German plans to penetrate the east are well known, plans are known, which Hitler later took over, that the Slovenes were nothing but, as they said, fertilisers for German fields. In such conditions, the idea of duchy autonomy appeared. Soon, Mr. Radovanovic, November 25th. The large National Assembly in Novi Sad - Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians, as it was called, has made a decision on the accession of Banat, Baka and Baranja to Serbia. Why don't you represent that original idea? Why don't you say Baranja is part of Serbian countries too, but you recognise the AVNOJ borders established by Josip Broz Tito, and that same Josip Broz Tito has established that autonomy you speak of. It has nothing to do with the autonomy of 1945, or 1974, with the autonomy of 1848. It is a great lie and there is a growing number of Vojvodina citizens who will follow your lie and who will be able to convince you that, to God, you, Nenad Canak and the society around you are continuing those famous 19th-century Serbian nationalists who have succeeded, however, for a short while, to create the Serbian Duchy and to, in short, protect the Serb people in the areas of southern Hungary from losing national and religious identity. It's not the SRS, it's also, I have to answer you, printed the passports of the Republic of Vojvodina. We did not invite Germany, the United States, the UK to open their diplomatic representations in the New Sad. That's what Nenad Canak did and even boasted about it. You, in essence, are still in favour of this idea today, because what is different than asking for legislative, executive and judicial authority for Vojvodina, what is the fundamental difference between the concept of the state and this for which you stand and what are you fighting for? You're asking, it's just a question of whether you want to admit it or not. Your political program is separatist and it is very dangerous for the people of Vojvodina. Fortunately, Vojvodina is still today the basis of Serbia, and that is how it confirms the results of all previous elections, where the SRS is precisely in Vojvodina achieving the best results.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10788	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10789	We from the Socialist Party of Serbia think it is not bad that the debate on this amendment has been held, because it essentially shows, or points to some of the phenomena that exist in Serbia, namely, that Vojvodina is given a greater role than autonomy implies, and probably in the perspective that Serbia is one day federalising, confederating and trying to crush Serbia. Namely, the SPS accepts the government's position on this amendment. I think it's quite logical and quite consistent with the Constitution that the amendment cannot be accepted. We are talking about the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we are talking about the procedure and way of proposing elections, the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. The procedure was clearly established, except in the assembly work, but we talked about it and there is no mention of autonomous provinces. If one is talked about, then it would be logical to talk about the other, and we know the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what my colleague Zvonko Stevic was talking about. We think it is good that the government has given such an explicit answer, for the simple reason that it should speak clearly to many today, to understand the situation in which Serbia is located and what we want in general from Serbia. The fact is that the 1974 Constitution has broken down Serbia, and the then great Yugoslavia, but has essentially broken Serbia down. It happened that, referring to brotherhood and unity, the equality of the peoples of ethnicity, the republic and the provinces, the people who were in power at that time made one system that, aboutly, functioned at the level of the first attitude of Orvell's "Animal Farms" -- all animals are equal, only some more equal than others. So it was in the great Yugoslavia, all the republics were equal, only some had the advantage; all the nations were the same, only some had the advantage. This happened, unfortunately, with both Serbia and those who do not know that I remind them that the constitutional solutions at the time gave priority to some republics over Serbia. Unfortunately, because of the declared principle of equality between people and the equality of all ethnic communities, the Constitution established the principle that some nationalities or ethnic communities or national minorities were ahead of others. Then there was no way to talk about the advantage. I think the real thing was done in 1990, with the 1990 Constitution of the Republic, which was created on the wave of a large folk protest from 1988, 1989, when Serbia was built as a legal territorialally integrated state. That's good, because if it wasn't then, we're fully convinced that the separatist currents from Vojvodina would have raised that issue of Vojvodina's status, of course, with the help of always the foreign and public stakeholders, and that would look completely different today. We would, perhaps, not only talk about Kosovo, but we would talk, unfortunately, about both Kosovo and Metohija. That's the good side of the 1990 Constitution. I think the amendment to the government is perfectly appropriate, accurate and I really don't see the need to continue to discuss this amendment. If it goes further, we Socialists really have no reason to run away from this topic and there is no need for any of our colleagues from Vojvodina to either directly or indirectly, to respect or object to us. We have always, during our rule at the level of the Republic of Serbia, treated Vojvodina in the way it deserves, as part of the Republic, or as autonomy in the Republic of Serbia, no more, no less.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10790	Time's up, Mr. Beard, but go ahead. Go ahead, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10791	I would just remind my colleagues, no matter how much they liked or didn't like the past communist time, the fact is that at that time Vojvodina had an economic boom, and I will only mention that we were seeing how much we cared about this real equality and participation of Vojvodina in what is called the life of Serbia in the 1990s, that the two Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia were from Vojvodina, Mr Dragoslav Zelenovic and Mr Radoman Bozovic. There were several ministers, there were siats, and members of different ethnic communities. So, in every way, it was taken care of, not to mention that at a time when the Socialists organized power at the level of the Republic, that's the best example for you, the NIS headquarters was moved from Belgrade to Novi Sad, where it is today. These are all evidence that speaks of the need for Vojvodina to be what it is, an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and I really don't understand these tendencies, even through some amendment, that Vojvodina gets more rights than autonomy, or that it is a participant in a process where it has no place, because it is still the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10792	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Did Dr Batic answer, excuse me, please, we've been working on Article 11, and this is Article 13. There you go. No problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10793	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I apologize, I have tried to be on two hearings in court, which have been cancelled, so I have failed to respond on several amendments, and now I will do so for the amendment to Article 11. So my proposal is that the Constitutional Court judges do not take an oath before Parliament. The government's answer is, by logic, that the Constitution is not prohibited, so since it's not prohibited, it's allowed. I think it's an inadequate response and it had to be provided for in the Constitution, on the one hand. On the other hand, it doesn't make sense, given the way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. Only one-third of these judges are elected by the National Assembly, the second-third - the President of the Republic, and the third-third - the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. So two-thirds of the Constitutional Court judges have nothing to do with Parliament. Then why would they take an oath before Parliament? If someone really cares, I can see that this new government cares very much about the oath, and most of them are atheists, but we're not going to get into that part, I don't know what they're swearing on, maybe it could have been possible for the members of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Republic to be present before all the judges of the Constitutional Court to take an oath. It's completely absurd like this. This is where logic went to the other side a long time ago. On Article 10, I will repeat, I will use this time, as it is about my amendments, in this article, in paragraph 1, the Constitutional Court shall have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court, which shall bring the organisation, way and the public work and procedure before the Constitutional Court. Beware of this sophisticated argument by the Government, which rejects the amendment, they say, "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the procedure before the Constitutional Court is governed by the draft law". I guess, Minister, by law. How is something regulated by the bill? As the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work, this is a very intelligent formulation, only closer to being governed by certain issues relating to the procedure before the Constitutional Court. This is against the constitution. Mr. Minister, you happen to have a member of Paragraph 175, which says, the constitutional court, the constitutional court proceedings and the legal facts of his decisions are governed by the law. It can't be -- a little law, a little rules. It can't, it's against the constitution, Mr. Minister. Furthermore, the amendment to Article 8, where I have suggested that, instead of finding out lightly that the procedure before the Constitutional Court 'coherently applying the provisions of the relevant procedural laws', they will be the Law on litigation and the Law on General Administrative Procedure. The reason is that the government does not accept the amendment, since for legal and technical reasons it is unsuitable for consideration. This is really amazing. Careful, for legal and technical reasons, unsuitable for consideration. Mr. Minister, have any of these abdicators written you explanations or lawyers? I just can't believe it. As a respected lawyer and lawyer, you know what a spectrum of procedural laws is, and you also know there are only a few candidates here. Perhaps from 10 on these two lists one judge will be elected who has something to do with the procedural law. Also, under three, you know that the procedure will now be intensified due to constitutional complaints, etc. I'm interested, how will the people who have never dealt with procedural laws aim at which of these procedural laws will apply, perhaps this one on the case before the war crimes tribunal, related to the UN war crimes tribunal?- I'm sorry. It just doesn't stand, because it's going to be total anarchy. It must be specified which procedural laws will apply and that is the essence of this amendment. With these unmistakable explanations and explanations, it's faster and better rejected. Something that is rational is not accepted, something that is completely adequate. Article 5 relating to the use of the Cyrillic letter. Of course we know what the Constitution says and of course it's something that must be respected, but, as you know, every procedure is initiated by launch, submission, proposal, initiative. Someone who submits a constitutional complaint can only write in Latin and write a constitutional complaint in Latin. That's how the procedure begins. It's already procedure. Or he's got a Latin machine, I'll write. Of the Cyrillic, it's just that Pearl, what they were called, 50 years ago. So someone's handicapped that's going to file a motion to the Constitutional Court to write it in Latin, because it has no right. Then you had to explain it, that the initiation of the procedure could begin with another letter, because it's already a process. I see people were hesitating when I tried to explain it to them. If this went to the Council of Europe... You cannot attach yourself to multiethnic and multinational environments and to the use of other languages and letters. This has nothing to do with it. You have Serbs living in tight Serbia and writing Latin, simply, it turns out there's no point in submitting amendments. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have submitted 21 amendments and members of our parliamentary club another 20 amendments, and a single amendment has been accepted. Now I've given you at least two that are absolutely rational to accept, but that kind of, inconclusively refuses, with a unmistakable explanation. It has nothing to do with any other party or party, it's legal rationality here, legal logic, respect for the law and the Constitution, but it doesn't matter. She has proposed an amendment to the opposition - delete it, and that is not the way it should be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10794	I thank Dr. Vladan Batic. Now let's seduce some order, and for the record. It's true, we passed until you were here as a member. I repeat, Article 11. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Batic just explained it. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10795	Mr Batic talked about more amendments and I don't think it's bad, far from it, even though he wasn't here, for the reason he cited it. I don't know, Mr. Batic, what's with all the hard words? This debate runs in a perfectly correct tone. Yesterday I said, there's no reason beyond the belief that we're passing a regulation that's consistent and that will be applicable. I haven't said a word about any of the amendments, I won't say that in the future, and I haven't spoken before. Of course, the MPs are here by the will of the people, and they choose their own way of addressing the government. When they're opposition, I understand I can't speak well. Style and style is always the choice of anyone who talks here and about it, in the end, citizens say their own court. So, Mr Batic, your amendment is unsuitable because, suggesting that Article 8 should look like you were here at the end, suggesting that the 2nd position of this member should appear, in your proposal, that the words of "processing laws" should be deleted in attitude 2, and that the same question should be regulated in the same way as in the previous position. Because of this, because of the technique you used, the amendment simply couldn't be adopted, legally-technically about it to bring judgment. That's one thing now. I want to talk about the point, I don't want to hang on to this. Therefore, as far as the substance is concerned, in the applicable law, the law which is in force today in the case of the Constitutional Court, Article 3, states that the rules of the relevant procedural laws are applied accordingly in matters which are not governed by this law. That is, therefore, a positive right. I haven't heard from anyone since this law was in effect, that it opened the question, the problem with this member of the Constitutional Court's functioning. I think this is a good opportunity to say that the public debate on this law was opened on August 8th. The public debate lasted very long and she was preparing for this debate. It cannot, nor should it be, nor is it necessary for the public debate to replace the parliamentary debate. None of the, I don't know how many, dozens of professors and judges have opened this issue as a question that can cause a problem. I'll give you my position which is why I think so. Therefore, procedures before the Constitutional Court have been arranged individually, from the examination of the constitutionality of the laws and the legality of the general acts, and beyond, not to list them all. However, everyone said that, the constitutional appeal is a new institute and it is quite possible, and it will happen in life, that because of the right to appeal the procedure is initiated by the constitutional appeal, because the citizen considers that his right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time, cases appear from all procedures, litigation, non-partisan, executive, criminal, criminal, bankruptcy, administrative proceedings, administrative dispute, therefore, of all possible procedures. Here, now I call you, since there are a lot of lawyers here, to do one thought experiment -- which will be followed by the judge of the Constitutional Court, the rapporteur and, afterwards, the Constitutional Court, when he makes a decision with all the members. It must be open to the Constitutional Court to apply the procedure which in that case gives him an answer to the questions he will have to make known. It is possible that both Mr Batic and other MPs disagree. Therefore, the assumption is that the Constitutional Court judges will have full capacity when they are elected, appointed, and they will trust that, to the best extent possible, with their professional views and knowledge, they will make decisions and assumptions, that they will make a safe decision, and that they will be applied on what procedures. In all regulated, or constitutionally defined topics, there are procedures prescribed by the Constitutional Court Act. On the issues that will arise in life, we will see how the practice of the Constitutional Court itself will be conceived. As for the oath, that in our legal and political tradition, regardless of our different views on who is a believer, who is not and whether the oath is necessary or not, the oath for state authorities exists, is taken by MPs, members of the Government, President of the Republic, Judges, Judges, Judges for Infringements. Our opinion was that there was no reason for the Constitutional Court judges to also take no oath. Of course, a complex procedure for the election and appointment of the Constitutional Court judges opened a dilemma -- before which the body, body, corpus, should swear to be filed. Our decision, therefore, is that the legislator's decision should be in front of the National Assembly because people who represent Serbian citizens sit here. Serbian citizens are also represented by the President of the Republic, but the President of the Republic is an in-house body, and 250 MPs of the National Assembly represent citizenship and we felt that this was an appropriate context in which the oath should be taken. In any case, Parliament is where it should be done. As for the use of language and letter, it is fully guaranteed that procedures can be initiated in both letters. There's no dilemma. The Constitutional Court has an obligation to write its acts and submissions in Serbian and Cyrillic, therefore, to draw them up, and the official use of other languages and letters is governed by law, and the law must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10796	I thank Mr. Minister Dusan Petrovic. The replica was sought by Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10797	The minister tried to answer what I said, but failed. Why? First of all, I was neither rude nor offensive, I think the individual arguments that the government made about the rejection of amendments are really absurd and legally illogical. I can say that, maybe, in a more twisted form, but I always speak plainly. The minister did not respond to that part that is most absurd, that the Constitution is violated, the provision of Article 173(5), and that the procedure before the Constitutional Court is governed by the Rules of Procedure. It's a direct violation of the Constitution. There's no comment here. Like, some things are going to be governed by the rules of procedure? It can't. It doesn't say in the Constitution. It's a direct violation of the Constitution. Explain to me why this amendment was rejected when it indicates that it was a direct violation of the Constitution, Article 173 of Item 5? Mr. Minister, here you have made a frantic point that the judges of the Constitutional Court, by the logic of applying all possible procedural laws, will apply, say, and the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's amazing. I'll just say it - amazing, and I'll stick to it. The oath can never be taken in front of those who didn't choose you. You can only take the oath in front of whoever chooses you. Two-thirds of the Constitutional Court judges have nothing to do with the National Assembly, for they are not chosen by the National Assembly. So either there shouldn't have been an oath, or, if she's loved the oath so much lately, then they should have been, as I said, the National Assembly, and the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, and the President of the Republic, that the entire Corps of the Constitutional Court takes an oath before all those who choose them. This looks like cheap demagogy to me. Now it will be very important to swear an oath before the congregation! It's not overly creative or inventive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10798	I thank Dr. Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Balint Pastor came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10799	Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to Article 225 and 226, and I will apologize immediately for misusing the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to take the opportunity to take advantage of Mr. Dusan Petrovic and Mrs. Hope Kolundzija with us. I would like to ask a question to Mr Dusan Petrovic, not to the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but to the deputy president of the Democratic Party. The theme is, of course, broadcasting. I'm going to have to explain a little bit what this is about before I ask Mr. Dusan Petrovic. On 19 June, the MPs of the SVM submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting. They proposed that the National Assembly put this bill on the agenda, to adopt it, and the essence of this bill is to exclude those media broadcasting programmes in the languages of national minorities from the privatisation process, because we believe that by selling these media broadcasting programmes in the languages of national minorities, there would be a reduction in the level of national minority rights acquired to informing in the languages of national minorities. I have already explained several times that this solution exists in Hungary's practice, in Romania's practice, in Slovakia's practice. In countries that are EU members, there is also a day-to-day media owned by local self-government. The reason is that this law is because of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, because they have banned local self-government from owning the media. We think that if it can be done in Slovakia, in Romania, this practice can exist in Hungary, then it should also exist in Serbia. Unfortunately, President Oliver Dulic did not put this bill on the agenda. The resolution on Cuba was more important and more important points of the agenda. Moreover, on October 29th, Mr Oliver Dulic said that we in SVM only want to show that the state does not want to solve the problem and that we are only making a campaign, which, of course, is not true, because we submitted the bill on June 19th, and this problem can only be solved in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We were able to achieve that on October 30th, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, president of the DS Parliament Group, said the DS was ready... Excuse me, Mr. President, may I finish? I need another minute, so I don't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10800	Let me tell you something. First of all, you called and you're talking about something that has nothing to do with the agenda. It's not right. This morning we agreed, as in the last few days, to ask questions like this at the end of the day. Secondly, you're asking a question, Minister, that's how you violated Article 198. Rules of Procedure. You have the right to ask the minister of his jurisdiction, you have no right to ask him a question as vice president of the party. Sure, go ahead, finish up, so you don't pick up again, so we don't make a circus here right now. Art. We always leave 225nd and 226nd for the end of the day. The minister will also be there. Now you've interrupted the amendment debate, the issue has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10801	Mr. President, I immediately said that I would abuse the Rules of Procedure and that it was not allowed, but I must take advantage of the opportunity that Mr. Petrovic and Mrs. Hope Kolundzija are there; I do not know if they will be there from 17:30 to 1800 hours. I just want to put an end to this problem that's been going on for over half a year. So, Hope Kolundji promised October 30th that we'd start talks between DS and SVM. She said that until then the privatisation process will be suspended and that if we reach some agreement on this issue, then the agreement will be respected. I said that we from the SVM can provide a majority in the Assembly for the adoption of these amendments and additions, but if we can't put it on the agenda, then, of course, we can't even discuss this issue, and this can only be solved in the National Assembly. We, the SVM, were deceived twice by the Democratic Party in 2002, when this law was passed and when it was promised that this issue would be resolved by some regulations, and the second time on October 30, when Nada Kolundzhija promised to start discussions on this topic. Meanwhile, they sold Radio Tower, Radio Srbobran and Radio Sombor. The auction sale of Radio in Backo Topoli and Radio in New Vienna is October 23rd. Radio Backa Topola broadcasts a programme in Serbian, Hungarian, Russian and Slovak languages, and if these media are sold, political responsibility for this will be borne by the Democratic Party. Please, Mr. Petrovic, tell us what the DS's position is on this issue. We're open to co-operation, ready to talk and co-operate. Please tell me if it makes sense for us to talk about this. One more time, I'm going to underline so we don't make the campaign. We want to solve this problem. We filed the bill on June 19th. I'll also give you a proposal for this law. Please state the DS position and discuss this issue, so that we can preserve the media that broadcasts programs and in the languages of national minorities. I thank you, Mr. President, for letting me talk for six minutes and talking about the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10802	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10803	Mr. Pastor, if you didn't want to campaign, you'd have asked me this question when we said goodbye; you came in 45 minutes ago in the O.R. I will not, of course, answer your questions in the debate on the Constitutional Court law. If you want to talk, you can have me whenever you want. You know my phone, and you know the way you can get to me. I think it is indeed beyond any fundamental correctness to open this issue in Parliament in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10804	Thank you. The word is by MP Vladan Vukicevic, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10805	Dear People's MPs, I have reported on the amendment to Article 11 - whether it is necessary for judges elected by the Constitutional Court to take an oath in Parliament or not. I think that dilemma is very simple -- of course they should take an oath in Parliament. There are many services and all those who work in the interests of citizens and for the interests of citizens -- should take an oath in Parliament, for one simple reason, which Parliament right now reflects the will of Serbian citizens and here we have a full electoral body of Serbia represented. If the oath is taken before the President of the Republic, however, the President of the Republic elects a number of citizens and he represents them, although the President of the Republic must represent all citizens, while Parliament is the only place where all groups are represented and where we have a complete electoral body. That is why it is normal to take an oath before Parliament. The other thing I'd like to say is, you have to take an oath. Of course, it is understood that the Constitutional Court judge is an expert man, an honorable and honest man, and that he will perform his duties with honor and integrity, but when he should work in the interest of broad masses, i.e. All citizens, then should be sworn in. There is, in the end line, and that one, let's call it, the protocol part. There's a lot of interest in taking an oath. Here, and doctors take an oath before they get to work, so we have soldiers, who we know for sure they'll defend their country, so they take an oath, and that's what they should, of course. The President of the Republic, who will surely represent the interests of his country, is sworn in. They're taking an oath and ministers, aren't they? So, all those who work in the interest, in general, Serbian citizens -- should take an oath and be heard for their sake that they will work honestly and honestly, although they are meant to choose honest and honest people, who should do the job in the right way, be honest and honest, honest and consistent. Therefore, Parliament is the only place where the overall electoral body and citizens of Serbia concentrate in one place, i.e. it concentrates on MPs elected by citizens, and this is the only place where everyone should swear an oath. That is the attitude of New Serbia's MPs, and I suppose the MPs of the overall majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10806	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few sentences concerning the amendments submitted by MP Vladan Batic and the response given by Minister Dusan Petrovic. As regards amendments to Article 8, I have also been in the debate, in principle, on the draft Constitutional Court Act, saying that it is not logical for me to, in case there are no appropriate procedural rules in the Constitutional Court law, to apply the procedural rules of the other laws without precise and decidently stating which procedural laws are concerned. As far as I know, Mr Minister, there are a whole series of procedural laws in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Some of these procedural laws are complete, and these are - the Law on litigation, the Law on Criminal Procedures, the Law on General Administrative Procedure. There is a Law on Administrative Disputes, which is also a procedural law, but is not complete, because it contains a provision that says that in case a procedural question is raised that is not regulated by the Law on Administrative Disputes will be applied, the Law on Prosecution will be applied. Mr. Minister, I think you've had two options in front of you that you've had to take advantage of, and you've defined yourself as some possibility that, in my opinion, is very bad. Namely, when you wrote the bill, of course, not personally, but the people who were on that team who wrote the bill, you had to either make sure that the Constitutional Court law was a complete law, meaning that there was no procedural question that would not be regulated by that law, or, if you had already defined yourself to regulate only some procedural questions, then you had to say in the bill of law - in case a certain procedural question that was not regulated by the Constitutional Court law was raised, the relevant provision or the Law on a litigation or the General Administrative Procedure Act would apply. I find it a little illogical to apply the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If I understood what you said well, it turns out that whether a certain procedural law will be applied depends on what legal matter the constitutional appeal has been made, so if the constitutional appeal is brought about on issues regulated by the general administrative procedure, then the General Administrative Procedure Act will apply. If there is a legal thing that is regulated by a litigation procedure, then the Law on litigation will apply. This mechanical application and mechanical introduction into connection with the nature of the legal matter for which a constitutional appeal has been issued with the application of the relevant procedural law does not seem to be very logical. You have left one broad possibility for the Constitutional Court judges to apply the provisions of a proper procedural law. It can challenge self-will practice, it can cause arbitration, it can cause it to simply not have a uniform practice of the Constitutional Court. In one case, for example, the Law on Prosecution will apply, in another - the Law on General Administrative Procedure, perhaps even, as you say, and the Law on Criminal Procedure, and so on. Then there will be no uniform court practice and there is a possibility of serious question - the right of parties to the Constitutional Court. In particular, it is problematic for this Article 8, I have talked about it in principle, paragraph 2, which says - on matters which are not governed by this law or by the provisions of procedural laws, the Constitutional Court will decide in any particular case. This is nothing more than giving a legislative authority to a judicial authority. That, in fact, means, if there is no proper procedural rule under the second law, then that procedural rule will establish itself by the Constitutional Court. That, Mr. Minister, is nothing more than the tribunalization of our constitutional judiciary. It is a practice applied by The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal itself lays down its own rules. It's not some other organ, but it's the Hague tribunal itself, and as soon as they see that they can't condemn someone by these procedural rules, they're faster -- they're better off changing those rules. Since 1994, to date, these procedural rules have been amended in The Hague tribunal more than 30 or 40 times. In order not to do so with the Constitutional Court, this provision in Article 8 or Article 8, or Article 8, you need to delete it, because it is simply not in the spirit of not only the Serbian legal system, but it is not in the spirit of continental law - that the court itself prescribes the rules it acts. It is a precedent that has no example in ours or in European continental, normative and judicial practice. As for the amendment to Article 11, it seems to me, with all due respect to Mr Batic, that he did not understand the provision of Article 11, Article 2, because it said that, at the time of his entry into office, not before the National Assembly, but before the President of the National Assembly. The position of the SRS is that the Constitutional Court judges who are elected must take an oath before the National Assembly. And that the National Assembly has something to do with the Constitutional Court, because, above all, the National Assembly elects five judges, and on the other hand, on the list of candidates proposed by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic elects five judges, so that at least 10 judges of the Constitutional Court have direct links with the National Assembly. We want to raise the authority of the National Assembly in every respect and we believe that there is no state body in the Republic of Serbia, no other political body before which the Constitutional Court judge is to take an oath, except in front of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has the widest democratic legitimacy and the National Assembly is the right place for judges of the Constitutional Court to take an oath. So we believe that the Constitutional Court judges should take an oath, but we think it would be better if the oath were taken not in front of the President of the National Assembly, but in front of the National Assembly in plenary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10808	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm sorry, I'll just read it. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before we move on to that amendment, the word has been made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10809	Once again I just think, I don't think, I'm sure I won't answer any more of these procedural things. So I just want to read Article 3 one more time. The Constitutional Court Act, now called - a law on procedure before the Constitutional Court, which is in force at this time. The law was passed in 1991 and was amended in 1993 and 2005. So it hasn't changed since 2001 or 2002. It has been valid since 1991 and some changes in the subsidy in 2005. Here, just in terms of these provisions we're now discussing. This law states – on matters which are not governed by this law, the provisions of the relevant procedural laws shall be applied accordingly. In paragraph 2, the Constitutional Court will decide on any specific case on matters which are not governed by this law or by the provisions of the procedural laws. So, by the principles and regulations that are arranged in a very close way, like this law, things have been going on for years in our country. What I still want to say, and I think it is very important, in addition to the procedures which the Constitutional Court has so far dealt with in one reduced form, when there was the possibility of a constitutional appeal being made, with a whole new field, the possibility is opened for citizens to declare a constitutional appeal in all possible legal situations that exist in our country, with the right of citizens to, until these court proceedings are completed and all legal means are exhausted, to seek protection because they feel that their trials are too long, so that they have not been given the right to trial within a reasonable time. We felt that it was entirely comprehensive to open up to the Constitutional Court the broad possibility of applying the procedure, of course, where there are clear rules, which will lead to a decision that will be the answer, or the possibility of providing this particular and specific type of judicial protection, in situations which have not existed so far in our legal tradition and in legal practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10810	Thank you. About the amendment, you have seven minutes left. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to say a few sentences concerning the explanation given by Mr Dusan Petrovic. The explanation you gave, Mr. Minister, doesn't seem logical to me, especially from your party's point of view. Don't you stand for breaking up with the dark past of the 1990s? How come all of a sudden your only argument is what it says in the existing law, which was passed in 1991, and we from October 1st 2000 to today from the mouth of DS officials and other DOS parties are only hearing that we should break up with everything that happened in the 1990s?- I'm sorry. The fact that it was written in the 1991 Constitutional Court Act and the legal effect of its decisions, which was later changed and amended several times, does not mean that this was a good solution. You persistently, Mr. Minister, whether consciously or unconsciously, are making one mistake. It is not a constitutional appeal to the new legal institute, when it comes to proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The Republic of Serbia is a legal follower of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You see, as far as a reasonable trial is concerned, it's just a small fragment and a small legal sequence that the Constitutional Court might decide on. I want to tell you that we have also known the constitutional appeal as a legal institute under the 1992 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Federal Constitutional Court, then, was also empowered to consider issues raised in connection with the constitutional appeal, and this same authority was given by the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro, which was formed in 2003. Therefore, you have not now, Mr. Minister, invented something that has never existed before in our legal practice. But I'm trying to draw your attention to the fact that your reasoning regarding the application of procedural laws is not good and that in practice it can cause very big problems. It's not the same, it's just not the same process rules when it's decided. First, the constitutional appeal is a complaint and then you had to make it clear - when deciding on a constitutional appeal, the rules of the Constitutional Court Act apply, first of all. Secondly, if these rules are not contained in the Constitutional Court Act, then either the Law on the Procedural Procedure or the General Administrative Procedure Act or, possibly, some other procedural law will apply. As a result, you leave extremely wide space to judge the Constitutional Court, many of which do not practice law in a practical way, from case to case, decide which procedural law will apply. First of all, you put hot potatoes in the hands of the Constitutional Court judges themselves, that they themselves must beat the head that the procedural law will apply. What if now in the Constitutional Court there is a revote on what procedural law should be applied, and instead of the Constitutional Court judges entering into the measure of the legal matter for which a constitutional appeal has been issued, they will resolve the previous issue - which procedural law should be applied. Then, instead of reducing the number of cases per constitutional appeal, it will increase, as judges will do nothing but deal with what issue and what procedural law should apply. Take care, Mr. Minister, of one more thing. The Constitutional Court Act falls under public law, containing imperative legal standards. In imperative legal norms, there is no room for free decision-making, free interpretation, interpretation from case to case. It must be clearly laid down which procedural law is applied and for which procedural issues. So, it would be best if the team of people who wrote the draft law on the Constitutional Court had fully and to the fullest extent worked out every procedural question that could be answered, and for the decision on constitutionality, legality, and for the decision on constitutional appeal, and for any other issue that could be found before the Constitutional Court, or, when you haven't already done so, you should have made it clear – in case there are no clear rules, the procedural rules of that and that procedural law will apply. That would be the legal thing to do. As a result, you are introducing our case-to-case case-to-case practice and there will be no more uniform practice. Problems will be created with the judges themselves of the Constitutional Court, who will discuss not the measure of things, but the previous issue – which procedural law should be applied. Then, instead of having an effective constitutional court, we will again get one state body that will only exist on paper, and Serbian citizens will not have any real benefits from all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10812	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Laszlo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10813	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 104 and 225. Mr. President, you're only trying to apply the Rules of Procedure when it comes to small opposition MPs. The ruling coalition, of course, is not subject to the Rules of Procedure. Answer me, please, to ask how many times has Mrs. Hope Kolundji been out in the last few weeks of the Rules of Procedure and discussed various issues that were not on the agenda? I'm sure it's happened dozens of times. Of course, you have fear of large opposition MPs, which is why you do not apply the Rules of Procedure. Now Article 225. One explanation to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pastor has asked a question publicly, for this speaker, for a simple reason, because DS agreements that are reached in four eyes always break. That's what Mrs. Hope Kolundji did when she promised that the privatisation proceedings would stop those three media outlets that Mr. Pastor was talking about. These procedures have not been suspended and the media has been privatised. Now I want to give Mrs. Kolundji a notice. On that 30 October, when we agreed that our proposal to amend the law would be on the agenda, we promised it we would provide proof that there are examples in EU countries that the founders of electronic media are minority self-government. On this occasion, I would like to read one provision of the Law on Broadcasting of the Republic of Hungary. Under that law, television stations of national or regional coverage, i.e. radio stations of national coverage, can be organised in the legal form of a company or public service society, meaning public undertakings, whose founders are local or regional self-government or self-government of national minorities. This means that in the Republic of Hungary, which is a member of the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the European Union, not that it is not prohibited for the founders of radio and television stations to be local self-government, but television stations with national or regional coverage, or radio stations with national coverage to be organised exclusively in the form of a company or a public enterprise whose founders are local or regional self-government. So in one EU member, it is precisely the form that it is seeking in Serbia that all these media outlets are limited-responsibility societies. I think this is the best evidence he's been deluding for years. I think it would be worth one more time to take these arguments into account and put this amendment and addition of the law already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10814	Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? (No) Ambassador Veljko Kovacevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10815	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say specifically when it comes to Article 15 and the amendment submitted by Mr. Batic, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks that Article 166 has been made. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a regulated issue of the Constitutional Court, where it is an independent and independent state body, which, above all, takes care of the protection of constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. In Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed the composition, election and appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, where five of the proposed ten elections of the National Assembly, five are appointed by the President of the Republic, also of the ten proposed, and five are appointed, at its session, the Supreme Cassation Court. In Article 9. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is exactly the precise time and time of adoption of the Constitutional Court law. It is until the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly. I want to point out here that these deadlines have passed, for the simple reason that the ruling coalition has not reached this agreement, concerning the law itself, and, above all, on the proposal of possible candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, one of the reasons is certainly the political nature, that is, the commitment of the candidates themselves, which we spoke of here in the Assembly. It is also the article of the 15th Law and the proposal of this amendment that judges of the Constitutional Court end the term of office of the moment when they become members of political parties. I would like to say that the reason why this amendment has been rejected is Article 55(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly and Decidently says that judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, prosecutors, Protector of citizens, members of the military, members of the police cannot be members, or members of political parties. That is why I accept this proposal and an explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to this member. The SPS, when it comes to the proposals of possible candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, set out in its proposals, above all, of certain criteria, which are the expertise, quality of work, the previous engagement of a possible candidate, the fulfilment of all conditions. I also want to say that it was certainly not possible to avoid this political factor from other promoters; it does not necessarily mean that the candidates are real members of political parties, but it was certainly their commitment, or favor to a particular political party. That is why I would like to point out that the SPS has submitted, on the draft law on the Constitutional Court, dozens of amendments, with the aim of making the adopted law as high as possible and more content. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the amendment of the SPS, i.e. mine, to Article 93, which I have submitted as a national MP, but I would like to point out that of the 90 amendments made by all political parties, including the SPS and other opposition parties, in order to get as high-quality and more content as possible, it has not accepted to a sufficient extent the good intentions of the MPs to make this draft law on the Constitutional Court more quality and content. I thank you, first of all, for the government's acceptance of the amendment to Article 93, which was submitted by the SPS. I would also like to point out that the choice before us, following these procedures, or amendments, is the judge of the Constitutional Court. The SPS and all MPs sitting here should, when selecting candidates, take into account the expertise, the skills, the fulfillment of the conditions which may be the judge of the Constitutional Court. I believe that in the election, the judges will not go beyond this political factor, the determination of possible candidates, but I urge that to the greatest extent, however, this expertise be expressed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10816	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) In the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic and Rajko Baralic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10817	I expected this amendment to be adopted, because it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and removes the great interference that can arise, and that by the Constitutional Court judges usurp their power, they also go beyond what is permitted by the Constitution. In the principle debate, I announced what it was about and I said that such a solution exists when it comes to the NBS Act and he gave very bad results in practice. What's this about? Article 15 provides for the procedure for the discharge of judges of the Constitutional Court. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph, the following point is added: There are no bigger problems, except one that stems from the lack of constitutional norm, or failures that were made when the Constitution, those who were directly working on the text; I am not talking about those who had political participation, but, above all, about those who wrote. When a permanent loss of the capacity to perform a judicial duty is lost, that is the legal reason for the termination of office. Resolve is usually a form of sanctions, and if it is a sanctioning, then why would it be a sanction for someone who has met the conditions for retirement or lost his job? This is about, first of all, disability pension; loss of work ability. While the Legislative Secretariat was a normal team of people, they took care of the unity of the legal-political system. They would never have happened, specifically, if Hispanic was still the director of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, he would never let this go. So, the loss of working ability is the reason why the law enforcement ceases, and there can be no reason for the kind of sanctions it represents. My amendment did not include this and not a slow proposing, since it was a copying of a constitutional norm, and the Constitution is wrong in that part. This is followed by this mistake, that the fulfilment of the conditions for the discharge of judges of the Constitutional Court is determined by the Constitutional Court. There is no such thing as an allusion to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, does not exist in Article 174. You have answered me, or the Government has answered, I will only read one sentence – that, of course, does not exclude the possibility of meeting the terms of the Constitutional Court judge's decision being determined by the Constitutional Court, since the resolution is only one of the reasons for the Court's term of office, and the proposed legal decisions contribute to the independence of the Constitutional Court judges. It's a rotten granola. Why? Whoever chooses determines whether the conditions for choice are met. We'll probably have a vote here in a few days on this list proposed by the President of the Republic. He proposed 10 candidates, five candidates should be elected by the National Assembly. Who determines whether the conditions for choice are met? People's MPs. They gave me some biographies, they wrote there, I have kids, I don't have kids, I'm married, I have a job internship, I don't have a job internship, and so on. Someone wrote that he wasn't a member of any political party. That condition that he's a member of a political party, that's unverified. It's practically uncheckable. What's it based on? Your Honor, I'm not a member of the party. Now let's take that other list, made by the National Assembly. We all know that three candidates are members of the DSS, prominent members of the DSS. I agree, perhaps they should make a choice, that is, to get out of the party and remove that deficit. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because the fulfillment of the conditions for choice is determined by the National Assembly in that part. When it comes to what the President of the Republic chooses from our list, he determines whether the conditions are met. He can tell the National Assembly, you suggested, say, a list of ten, and I think six candidates don't meet the requirements, these four meet. As for those four, for two, I think they're exceptional, so I want to choose them, and I don't want to choose these two. So it's his right, the right of that organ, and so do we. It is possible, in a few days, when there is a vote on this list, to pass one or two of the candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. It's all within the limits of the Constitution and the law, it has to be said, first of all, the Constitution. When it comes to resolution, the Constitution is clear on the termination of the duties of the judges, and the resolution comes down to it; at the request of the authorising officer, the election, or the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, shall be decided by the National Assembly. The National Assembly decides on a resolution. The initiative to initiate proceedings may be given by the Constitutional Court. The person who initiates the proceedings shall consider that the conditions for resolution laid down in Article 1 have been met and shall submit a proposal to dismiss the judge concerned. This is where we determine whether the conditions for resolution are met. Do not make an analogy with something that stands in the Constitution when the National Assembly initiates a procedure to resolve the President of the Republic, and then a condition - to come to the vote, is that the Constitutional Court determines that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. It's a constitutionally prescribed situation. Determining whether or not he has violated the Constitution has been placed in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. It is not within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court to determine whether the conditions for the resolution of the Constitutional Court judges have been met. There's no such thing. The most they can do is go to their status issues, the last sentence in Article 174. The Constitution. Judges of the Constitutional Court conclude that some of their colleagues no longer fulfil certain conditions and that the solution situation has taken place, so they can give us the initiative to resolve it. Then we determine whether the conditions for resolution are met. Here you have put the reasons for the resolution into something that is a special procedure, like some previous question, that needs to be solved by an organ, so you said, the Constitutional Court is the competent authority that needs to solve this issue. It's not. The one who can go maximum with the initiative, he can't go any further. The initiative is an initial act that draws attention to even a non-binding act. Now we have a completely different situation. It is possible that the law prescribes the majority and the Constitution prescribes the majority, here, now, which is the illogical nature, to which the Assembly will submit, a number of MPs, means 126 MPs, to propose that the judge of the Constitutional Court be dismissed. Who's he supposed to make that request to, a proposal? To the National Assembly. What does the National Assembly need to do? That it was sent to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court would determine whether there was a reason for the resolution. They say there's no reason. Why? For collegiation. It's not in conflict of interest, for example, which is Article 173. He's not in conflict of interest, he's out there in some sports collective, an irrelevant man, etc., some other reason, it doesn't matter. Why do you deny the right of the National Assembly to exercise authority? It means it's a solution. It will be settled in the debate. Radicals, you're asking to get rid of that NN judge, the Democrats say, the reason for the resolution didn't come, as we had in the debate now, yesterday and the day before. Batic says - five of them only have a judicial exam, and someone takes biography and reads and says, "It's not five, it's seven." They convinced me it was seven. They're not dudes. He still thinks it's five. It's not funny. It's all within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The debate is within the scope of the responsibilities of the National Assembly. We are authorized to choose, we are authorized to vote on resolution and to resolve someone. Why are you denying us this now? Like, God knows how hard the questions are, so he has to establish the Constitutional Court. Why establish the Constitutional Court? Why doesn't the First District Court determine? No, I don't. The malignancy that is being sown is like the one that Mladjan Dinkic skillfully introduced into the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. There is no man in Serbia who can tell you whether it is theoretically possible to get rid of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It's an impossible job. Do you remember when we took Dinkic off here three, four years ago? We had to change the law. He couldn't move anything. You know that six months later, in late 2002, by April 2003, he had moved on to be the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, whether the National Bank of Serbia exists, whether he was authorized to sign the bill. Zivkovic attacked him for being illiterate and not to sign the bill, and then he was suspected of killing Zoran Djindjic, because of that fight, remember, "Laki is a little nervous," Dinkic said, I didn't say. You must adopt this amendment. You know why you have to adopt him? If you somehow conclude this Constitutional Court and I submit a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 15, then that Constitutional Court, which you choose, must conclude and determine that this is not in agreement with the Constitution. That's what I'm saying, because I can't allow the Constitutional Court judges to go outside the framework prescribed by the Constitution. You can say whatever you want, I'm talking and criticizing Vučetić, etc. Ask Vukevic if he is the Constitutional Court judge to decide. The same thing I tell you, because it's an alphabet. It's not something now -- I love it, I don't like it; alphabet, you can't go under this. You're going under there. Why? Because there are some interests. What interests? We want to preserve those 10, to be played by some Constitutional Court, to hide that they are members of political parties. You know what the situation is now? If what the government has proposed goes through, it is possible that nine judges of the Constitutional Court, as soon as they swear an oath before the President of the National Assembly, is a devaluation, it is as if they are deputy public prosecutor. According to that constitution you criticized, they took an oath before the National Assembly, so they lined up everyone here to take an oath. We did not want to intervene and write amendments, because we believe that the issue of the oath must be resolved by the Constitution and where it stands in the Constitution to take an oath and make a solemn statement. When you reduce your legal obligation to take an oath, it's a different matter. There's some excuse when it comes to the military, etc., and for this second, we're not opening a topic. So it's theoretically possible that you choose these five judges, Tadic these five, that's 10, come, settle in the cabinets and after two days of a public statement -- we've all collectively switched to the Democratic Party. We, so nimble, are entrenched to resolve them, and they say, there are no reasons, we have established it. We, Judges of the Constitutional Court, have determined that there is no reason. All Serbia knows there's a reason, so how are you going to replace them? Then he'll say, "I'm sorry, please, Article 15(2) and Dulic says it can't go to the agenda right away." Why? You filed a motion, I filed it with the Constitutional Court and I'm waiting for them to answer, or maybe it's a little more because of whether it's going to be determined that the President of the Republic broke the Constitution, because somehow his hand tends to sign something that's forbidden to sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10818	No insinuations, Mr. Krasic, of that kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10819	Insinuations are allowed and not punishable, Mr. Albianic, you must know that. What you're talking about, it's working on something that's forbidden, and that's some analogy. Don't bring the National Assembly down to what your National Assembly president says is a circus. Don't make an analogy with the circus. The analogy is forbidden right, you know. So the amendment must be adopted. I gave you an example. In two days, they'll say we're all members of the Democratic Party. All to ask for them to be resolved, Dulic can only pass on the request to them, that they, in accordance with the law, determine whether the reasons for the resolution came. Do you know when they'll determine that? They can, even, rudely report -- we believe that the reasons for the resolution did not appear, a statement slips to the judge that he is a member of a party, otherwise he is not a member of the party, he looks down on the party with an indignation. Legally, they're professors of law school. It's a very similar situation. I don't know if you have the authority to accept it or not, but whether the government has authorized you or not, Tadic does not accept this amendment, since this complex is the right of the Democratic Party. Take care of the adverse consequences of everything you propose, and, Mr Petrovic, I expect an answer to the question I have asked several times -- is this the legal prosecutor for war crimes? He was proposed by the Government, elected by the National Assembly. There is no resolution in that law, it is likely to be resolved under the Public Prosecutor's Law, but later the Constitutional Court found that the government was in no way able to be a candidate for the election and we have a missing prosecutor. Because he's so missing, everything's wrong with what he's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10820	The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, about his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10821	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it happens that MPs are submitting amendments to the same text without being agreed on. Mr Krasic and I have such an amendment, but we also have Mr Batić and I – on Article 21. This means that MPs read the law using some logic that is close to them and unique and political in terms of certain solutions, writing amendments to improve the text of the basic law, which is good news. That's bad for the government, and it's not bad for the government either, actually, because the government and the minister should count on MPs reading the laws and trying to help. You, Mr. Petrovic, said earlier, didn't mean anything by it, but you did say it was not expected of the opposition MPs to speak well. In doing so, you thought they spoke well of the laws, but since you didn't say so, I'll say, on behalf of the SPS Group - we're not trying to speak well, we're trying to speak excellently, and that's our job here. So we'll talk like that in the future. In Article 15, Article 2 is deleted, says the amendment which, like Mr Krasic, he, on behalf of the SRS, I, on behalf of the SPS, submitted here. Why? Here's a few more sentences to say. There's been a lot of words here about it, if you connect members 13 and 14 to Article 15, you'll see that it makes sense what we did. Article 13 states: "The Constitutional Court Judge shall apply to suspend his duties before the end of the period on which he was elected, or appointed, to the elector". That means, among other things, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 14: "O meeting the conditions for retirement of the judge, the President of the Constitutional Court shall inform the authorising officer of the election." An authorised promoter, not a Constitutional Court. I know that there is one understanding of Parliament as a surplus of different events after the elections, and I disagree with that. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a place where no one should have any problem, especially if they draw their powers from the Constitution and the law. I agree with my colleagues that it would be normal for the oath to be taken in the National Assembly. Some of these judges who are going to be elected would be nice. They stayed in this room 20 years ago, by the way. Since colleagues don't know, this is where the Central Committee sessions were held, in the same room. One of them admitted it to him as well, but the others didn't. So one admitted, that's nice, and we supported it, but the others didn't, so if they came here to take an oath, they'd remember the time when here, instead of the rectangle, there was one coat of arms of different design, and at this door, and now they're just rectangles. We'll see, when they come, if they come, how they feel. Instead of Mic, they were various representatives of the Central Committee. This is where the eighth session was held, in this hall, and all other sessions, sessions of youth and the Socialist Union, Trade Union and SUBNOR. It's not bad for people to know that they're getting a little knee bump when they get here. I think, on behalf of my fellow SPS colleagues, too, that you won't do anything, Mr. Minister, wrongly if you accept Mr. Krasic's amendment and my amendment, because it's completely illogical that, as I would say, someone is pleading on their own right. So, although there are some reasons that are quite clear, it now needs the Constitutional Court to appreciate, for the reasons Mr Krasic also spoke of. What does it mean if he's a member of a political party? That's all he knows in his heart, otherwise, by definition, he's lying. This issue of political neutrality we have reduced here to a level of mockery, because everyone can say - I am not a member of a political party and thus acquire the right to be elected under the provisions of a certain law, so he later acts independently and independently within an independent, independent body, or an independent regulatory body, and he can always say - I am not a member of a political party. That's not true. I can remind you that Mr Svetozar Ciplic, the Constitutional Court judge, publicly discussed the same issue with Mr Vučetic, who was the President of the Constitutional Court, even on previous issues, discussed and did not hide to represent, one - DS and one - G17 plus. Therefore, it is good that the reasons for the end of this term, or eventually the resolution, establish the National Assembly, not the Constitutional Court, because you know, God first created his own beard. There's something there that's collegiate, there's one interest that's acquired based on small, tiny concessions. And the judges of the Constitutional Court will only be men, with all their virtues, weaknesses, possibly, with vices, I hope they don't have them, so there's unnecessary fear, any one in this country of the National Assembly. It was our idea when we wrote the amendment and we ask you to accept this amendment. Some parliamentary groups will also support it and, as far as I understand it, we already have 124 votes for this, so it's possible that we can figure out ourselves by the day to vote. It would be good for you to agree to that, because nothing bad is going to happen. It will be better for everyone, and you will show good will and that you are indeed a minister who has heard of good initiatives and good amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10822	Anyone else want a word? (No) We move on to the next amendment, but before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about an hour ago there was a shooting at the New Market, at the Altun-Aleam Mosque. We've received multiple calls from the citizens of Novi Pazar, there are wounded, according to our knowledge, for the time being, two. I'm asking the president of the National Assembly to call the Security Committee urgently. As a member of the Security Committee, I also ask the Home Secretary for information and urgent response to these events. Really, I wouldn't want to turn this conversion into politics, because I'm extremely upset and worried. Our findings show that it is a group of activists of the Democratic Action Party of Sulejman Ugljanin, well organized, about 200, dragged from other municipalities, these are not people belonging to that mosque and to that mosque, so Altun-Alem mosque in Novi Pazar, and that one action will be organized, which has been announced these days by activists of the Party Democratic Action and so on. The Islamic communities of Serbia, newly formed. The words were mentioned -- bloodbaths, and we really believe that if the MUP doesn't take the most energetic steps now, this situation can escalate. Honestly, from this pay phone, I invite all the people in the New Market to refrain, to stay calm and to return to their homes, and I call the police because they didn't do it this morning, and they knew that this could happen, but they let these people get into the mosque and shoot people who were already there. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior and the President of the National Assembly for what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10824	We can agree together that the competent state authorities should do their job effectively. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act, so that Article 2, paragraph 3 and Article 5 is deleted. Namely, the constitutional standards referred to in Article 173(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform a second public or professional function, nor a job, except for a law school profession in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. The government, in its explanation of why it does not accept this amendment, has said that this member of the law is simply discussing the norms set out in Article 173. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But that's not the point. First, the government didn't even bother to literally prescribe a member of the Constitution that regulates this issue. There is an obvious terminology between Article 1st Article 16. Proposal for a Law and Law of 1st Article 173. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 16 says - The Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public or professional function, nor does a job, except for a law school profession in the Republic of Serbia. Article 173(1) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says -- the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public or professional function, nor does a job, except for a law school profession in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. Therefore, this argument that you do not accept the amendment because, allegedly, you are just discussing a provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is simply not true. I consider the position of Article 2 16. The draft law on the Constitutional Court burdens, without any need, the text of the draft law and that this position should therefore be deleted. First of all, it's funny to consider a public or professional function here as a function of cultural and artistic society, humanitarian, sports or any other association. The constitution was to say that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform a public or professional function that could question his independence and independence when he solves issues raised before the Constitutional Court. What does it matter if it's a member of the KUD or a sports society with a decision on issues found on the Serbian Constitutional Court agenda? In fact, you seem to be trying to achieve something else. You were going to say, though, in a twisted way, that the Constitutional Court judges could be members of NGOs. I think that's the point of what's written in article 2. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act. You know very well, as we know from the SRS, that it can't affect the independence of the Constitutional Court judge if he's dealing with folklore in a KUD, but it can affect if he's a member of an NGO. We also had negative experiences with NGOs in the Republic of Serbia. Some NGOs led a real hunt, not against this individual or that individual, not against this party or that party, but against the state of Serbia and the Serb people. Should we mention again the name of that lady whose name is listed in the title of Dr Vojislav Seselj's latest book on the "Hrtkovac" affair? Some judges, or candidates for Serbian Constitutional Court judges, do not hide in their biography that they are members of individual NGOs. Does that mean that it recommends them to be judges of the Constitutional Court? So it doesn't matter if he's a quality lawyer, whether he's an independent, whether he's going to perform his job on his own, whether he's a decent and honest man, but if he's a member of an NGO, then he can. As regards the provision, i.e. Article 3. The bill, it reads as follows: "O functioning under the position of the 2nd member of the Constitutional Court is required to notify the Constitutional Court." It's a ridiculous norm again. Why would the Constitutional Court judge have to inform the Constitutional Court that he is a member of, say, a cultural and artistic or humanitarian, cultural, sports or other association? A norm which, without any need, burdens the text of the draft law, but is particularly inappropriate for the adoption of the provisions laid down in Article 5. It reads as follows: "In the event of a suspicion of conflict of interest, the Constitutional Court may address the Constitutional Court for the purpose of giving an opinion." Mr. Dusan Petrovic, Mr. Minister, we have just talked here about some procedural laws that the Constitutional Court judges will have to apply if the Constitutional Court law does not contain proper procedural rules. You know, just as I know, as all the lawyers sitting in this room know, that the basic principle of all procedural laws is that no one can be a judge in their own affairs. There is a dispute over whether the Constitutional Court judge is in conflict of interest and then it is not asked whether there really is a conflict of interest or not, but rather whether there is a constitutional court itself. More Roman lawyers have formulated the principle of Nemo iudax in caus sua, so that no one can be his own judge in his own thing. You ignore all this and say - there is doubt that the Constitutional Court judge is in conflict of interest. We're not even going to ask the National Assembly, we're not going to ask anyone, we're going to ask the Constitutional Court ourselves, and the Constitutional Court is divided by party belongings, by party nahi. Now, the best thing that judge of the DS Constitutional Court is going to say is, you know, my colleague is in conflict of interest and he needs to be expelled from the Constitutional Court. That's not gonna happen. This provision is simply ridiculous, it has no basis in either the positive regulations or the legal tradition, which is thousands of years old. I don't know why you formed that Republic Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. Why did you pass the Law on preventing conflicts of interest when performing public functions? For several years now, the media has been full of how this law is necessary to get close to some phantom European standards, that people working in this Republic's Committee on Conflict of Interest are some political morale apostles, they need to decide whether there is a conflict of interest or not. That president of the Republic Committee is giving lessons in every order, salty mind, etc., and where is the Committee of Conflict of Interest now? No, but the Constitutional Court will decide whether its member is in conflict of interest or not. Indeed, a ridiculous provision and in contrast with everything that you yourself, as a government in this country, have done in the past few years. Therefore, it is necessary to remain in the formulation referred to in Article 173. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear enough, precise enough and its purpose is to prevent judges of the Constitutional Court from performing a function that can objectively challenge their independence, their impartiality and independence when they resolve as judges of the Constitutional Court, and it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that, if one is a member of a cultural and artistic society or of a philanthropic society, it has nothing to do with its function as judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10826	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10827	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must honestly admit that for me, this amendment by my fellow Member Martinovic was only a reason to report and to say something more, in general, about these constitutional provisions concerning the kind of work that the Constitutional Court judge can do and to point to one indifference which, unfortunately, contains, in my opinion, the Constitution, which was subsequently transposed into this Constitutional Court law. Why am I saying this? It seems to me that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear in Article 172 when it says who can be the judge of the Constitutional Court. So, a man who has at least 40 years of life, 15 years of employment and is a prominent lawyer. Then, in Article 173, it is mentioned that a Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public professional function except for a law school profession. I think it narrows it down a little bit. Why am I saying this? Getting ready for this item of the agenda, I heard from colleagues who know this matter far better than I do that there are in the world countries that have very clear provisions on who can be the judge of the Constitutional Court, and then it's said that judges of the Constitutional Court can only be someone who, for example, is a doctorate in constitutional law. However, the number of these countries is very low, because the condition is very high, but they probably also have a larger number of residents, a greater number of educated people from this area and those from that line of narrow specialists choose those who can be judges of the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that we have established in the Constitution a provision that, objectively, the judges of the Constitutional Court, let me say, narrows down the possibility of dealing with the profession. It would be far better if, instead of law school, it was for example, a decree at the university. Why am I saying this? Not by accident. If you look at the structure of the course at law school, here, for example, I will take the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there are cases here that are such, with all due respect to colleagues who teach at the Faculty of Law, that those with constitutional law matter have no dots, or only marginally. I mention items such as National History of State and Law, Fundamentals of Sociology, Sociology of Law, Legal-Governmental Information, Science of Management, Traffic Law, Retorika, Basics of Statistics, Political Sociology, Basics of Accounting... They're classes at law school. So the Constitutional Court judge can teach these classes at law school. There are, no offenses, classes in other colleges where study, example works, matter of constitutional law. As far as I know, there is this at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and now several law schools have been established that may not have this prefix – legally, in their name, but contain objects from the legal field. One of these items can certainly be constitutional law. Then, objectively, the Constitutional Court judge brings into one, in my opinion, an illogical situation, that he can teach only in law school, and the Ministry of Education, for example, works, can, by issuing a permit for the establishment and operation of a university, qualify that college in a different way and thus give the judge of the Constitutional Court the opportunity to teach. I am saying this because I am pleading that the Constitutional Court judges can teach tomorrow, because their knowledge and experience, as well as practice, should make young colleagues who deal with this matter as accessible as possible, teach them what the contents of the Constitution are, what is the Constitutional Court and what is the subject of its work. It seems to me that such a constitutional solution, objectively, narrows this possibility to the work of the Constitutional Court judges. I know the government will appeal to the provisions of the Constitution and this government is right. It seems to me that, perhaps, at that speed of adoption of the Constitution, we ourselves know that the state reasons were in the first place, we missed some of the little things in relation to the importance that the Constitution had, some of the little things that are now a little narrower for us to find some better solutions, that the Constitutional Court is working in the right way, but that the judges of the Constitutional Court are also given the opportunity to teach at some other higher education institutions and not just at law school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10828	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Does anyone else report from the MPs for this amendment, Aleksandar Martinovic? (No) On Article 16, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to explain the amendment submitted by my colleague from the SPS Group, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. Before I begin to explain his amendment, I would just like to point out one problem, one illogicality, which is written in Article 15. Among other things, it says that the Constitutional Court judge is dismissed, that I would not read to you all if he permanently lost his ability to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court. If you read Article 172. The constitution doesn't say anywhere that the Constitutional Court judge should have any special physical equipment, some particular medical condition that defines him as the judge of the Constitutional Court. It is clearly prescribed that he must be 40 years old, 15 years of experience in the profession, etc., but he does not write anything about the special state of health for the judge of the Constitutional Court. I think by analyzing this, there is a complete explanation and logical connection to what Mr. Petronijevic has suggested here. It is, in effect, Article 17, which states that the loss of the working capacity of the Constitutional Court judge is determined on the basis of the expert findings and opinions of the approved medical institution. Whoever wrote that, we're assuming that he didn't understand the meaning of this -- the opinion of an authorized health care facility. You know for what reason? Let's assume it's a permanent loss of working ability, because that's why the Constitutional Court judge is being resolved. The loss of permanent work capacity cannot be established by a health institution, but solely by a commission established by the Republic Health Insurance Institute, or the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, so that you will be brought here to some, I say, legal inconsistencies and legal indifference, for a number of reasons. First, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is responsible for determining permanent inability to work, and, however, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the work of health institutions. Be assured that the procedure for determining permanent incompetence no health institution in Serbia is authorized to work, nor can it. It can make a proposal to determine work incompetence, for which it is fully authorised, not one, but many institutions, should not even write an authorised health institution, but health institutions. So please consider this carefully, consider this amendment well. I think that Misa Petronijevic, no doubt, is one of the best lawmakers in the field of labour, employment, social policy and the areas affected by these members and that is one of the recommendations why the amendment that my colleague, an MP from the SPS Group, should be considered. It will happen to us, to say so, to be malignant and to abuse this member. At someone's request, a Constitutional Court judge will be called to a health care facility, where a doctor will say that he is not a working man. If anyone wants to abuse it, believe me, a man will be removed from office, relieved of the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. I hope it's not in anyone's interest, at least to the applicant of this bill, because I'm sure we all want to have strong institutions, that the judges of the Constitutional Court, when they pass their judgments, do not put up with any pressure. Such a legal solution is not good, so I ask you once again to think twice and accept Mr. Milizav Petronivic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10830	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this bill came to the SRS Parliament Club, we found, considering the proposal, that this was one of the few draft laws that came into public debate without being prescribed somewhere from the West. That's why we worked very hard to correct with the amendments what the Minister, or the Ministry, his associates, failed, whether because they didn't know whether or not they could, because of some other restrictions, whether or not they were able to get into this legislative proposal. I was glad to see that several amendments of the SRS MPs were adopted. However, looking at amendments that have not been adopted, which come from the SRS Parliamentary Club, we come to the conclusion that "from the hill there is still something good" and that the bill is not exactly colored in one way or another, first of all, that it is not a bit blown away by western winds. The amendments of the SRS Parliament Club are all meaningful and if all of us were to include ourselves, this bill, when it becomes a law, would be far more acceptable and easier to apply in legal traffic, with the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, the point we will later discuss, that is, the bill that we will later discuss, we have also discussed in principle, allowing party membership to be put ahead of the state's interest, regardless of what is so wrapped up in the coast that the layman, who does not know you, more specifically, not you, Minister, but your party, can be acceptable and tempting. It is one of the members of this bill -- it must not be a member of the political party. What about NGOs that dictate political parties to the rules of conduct, precisely political parties from the ruling nomenclature? What about that Ustaša Natasa Kandic, who is a sociologist who defends all the accused from Kosovo, defends the Cyprus interests in many judicial processes, and turns out to be not a lawyer? You know about that. Did you know that you have Natasa Kandic in many processes, that she dictates the verdicts of Natasa Kandic, and Natasa Kandic is a sociologist, is not a lawyer at all? Even if he's a lawyer, he doesn't have a legal exam and he's not listed as a lawyer in the bar. It should be for you to review the behavior of some judges who receive Natasha Kandic in court. (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: He knows. I don't think he knows, I don't think he knows without having to react to the minister. I don't think he knows, here, now he's familiar. I expect the minister will soon respond to this problem. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club to Article 17, which I request that a part of the member be re-formed. The article reads: "The loss of working capacity for the duties of the Constitutional Court judge is determined on the basis of the expert findings and opinions of the approved medical institution". This amendment requires that the words "authorised health institutions" be deleted and that, instead, they be written: "in accordance with the rules on pension-inhabited insurance". The pension insurance rules apply to all citizens of Serbia, starting with the president, to who, for example, will be employed tomorrow and are the same for all. And to the president of the state, yes, God forbid, it would happen that, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance, he would be determined his ability to work and, analoguely, if his ability to work was lost, a man would retire. Therefore, I see no reason why the President of the State, the Prime Minister, is subject to these laws in this country and to bring the Constitutional Court judges into this situation; the question is whether the better or worse situation in which we bring them. Because, just explaining the amendment, which is similar to my amendment, the predecessor said there would be a possibility of abuse, so if the Constitutional Court judge dares to make a decision that is not in accordance with and in the interest of his party, that is, the party that proposed it, or the ruling coalition, will be in a position to send it to a health check, tendingly, therefore, without respecting the health profession, and there are those who are able to respect the health profession for money. I remind you of Smedereva and the affair about determining disability and getting pensions on that basis. So, if someone is willing to give a solution for the money that someone is disabled in the first category and on this basis achieves a right that does not belong to nature, why not be prepared and, for the sake of the will of their party, make a decision that they are both incompetent and thus remove the Constitutional Court judge from his post? As a result, I believe that the Constitutional Court judges should not be separated from the context and they should be given special conditions to determine their working capacity, so as to ensure that retirement involves the automatic termination of the function to which they are elected. I expect that we will never again be in this country in a situation where the former President of the former Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, has been interpreting constitutional norms, interpreting and giving us opinions, and that these opinions are being verified as opinions from the highest place, which we know and which political options he has represented, and what he hides behind many of his decisions, even some criminal affairs. But aside from that. I believe that the current judges of the Constitutional Court, first of all, must be protected legally. Secondly, we must not separate them from the entire Serbian public corps in this regard. There's a danger that someone might abuse this. There's a danger of one of those who's proposed being wrong. So I suggest you adopt this amendment, Mr. Minister, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10832	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10833	With this amendment, we tried to correct what the government must know. Mr. Petrovich, don't be angry. As justice minister, you should probably know best in that government the overall legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. You, your service, your ministry, and if you miss something, because now you're in a situation where you're the legislator of this law, you worked for the government, then the Republic Secretariat of legislation couldn't possibly have missed this formulation, could not possibly have missed it. Why? Because we're in the field of permanent loss of workability. The permanent loss of working ability determines only the competent disability commission and no one else. The competent disability commission in the pension-inhabitation system is outside the Health Protection Act, outside of health care. Health care, unauthorized healthcare institutions can make some suggestions, give their findings and opinions, and that's the material the Invalid Commission is working on, that's a fact. But the only one who is competent, authorized under the law, is the only one who has been authorised to determine that there has been a permanent loss of working ability, this body that has been laid down by the rules on pension-inhabited insurance. In that sense, we wrote the amendment. He is quite similar to that written by Mr. Petronijevic. But we didn't want to change the whole article, we just wanted to change the part that we think is bad. I know you understand that, but I know it's very difficult to adopt 27 of the 29 amendments of the SRS, and I know it all. It's not a problem at all. There's another problem now. It is good that these amendments to Article 17 exist because they draw attention to what is Article 15(2). Here it is, Cosic nods. What's this about? You've now removed the reason for the resolution from the Constitutional Court. Why? Because he doesn't belong in the Constitutional Court, you know? For what it's worth, I worked at the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and wrote some of those regulations from PIO, you know. So, of course you haven't read my books. You see, the reasons for the resolution, the determination of whether there was a reason for the resolution must be with whoever is authorized by the Constitution to choose and resolve. Now you just make sure you don't fall into a trap called the condition - the reason. You're making a difference between what's the reason and what's the condition. I can see from your homecoming that you don't know that there is a difference, and there's a big difference. So, who determines the permanent loss of working ability - the competent institution, in accordance with the PIO regulations? I hope that's not a matter of Article 17. By mistake in the Constitution, ours, with a pure error, it remained, that is, by the error of the one who was doing the text. Let you and Tadic, and Kostunica, and Tom Nikolic, and so on, because they politically framed the constitution. They're not in charge of knowing these things. Don't say it now. We've all been involved. Well, yes, we've all been involved, but this is a purely legal-technical slip. She's staying in the Constitution, obliging us. Essentially, a permanent loss of working ability is the reason for the end of the working relationship by law and the end of the story. You know what kind of trouble we have with the existing regulations on judges and prosecutors. That's what the DSS guys put on, very smart, so those things that were before, according to that old law -- the finding that someone had met the pension conditions, it's being found out, it ends up not going to the Assembly and so on -- now they've put everything into the Assembly, that the Assembly is dealing with everything and everything. Then we have the next situation -- and with what day do we realize that his function has stopped because of the permanent loss of his ability to work? He lost his ability to work a year ago, the congregation met after a year to find out. I'm not going into what was going on in the meantime -- whether he was a member of a council, whether he was a judge, whether he wasn't and what fate those decisions would be. You know why, because of the bad solutions. I'm not advocating a permanent loss of ability to get to another side. No, it has to be in those frameworks that are prescribed in the Constitution, that's where I agree. But whether there was a reason to get rid of the Constitutional Court judge - it must be in the National Assembly. I have now used this amendment to Article 17. So, both Article 15 of Section 2 and Article 17 of you accept and you won't spend anything, everything will be fully in the spirit of the Constitution. Now I would take advantage of the opportunity, and hopefully, Mr. Chairman, that after 14 hours we won't work, it really doesn't make any sense to work, it's Friday, it's glory to people and have certain obligations, people have come to the side, keep in mind that all week long, let's do some order, let's look at some amendments and some irregularities that have come up about some members. It is very difficult for this law to be prescribed before the Constitutional Court, it is very difficult. I don't think there are any epochal innovations in the Rules of Procedure that need to be passed by the Constitutional Court, there are much more norms in the existing law. This law regulates, there you are right, what the previous law for a reason did not want to regulate. Clearly, the Code of Criminal Procedure is inapplicable when it comes to proceedings before the Constitutional Court, the relevant provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure can be applied if a matter of business ability arises, whether any party who can represent whom, when it comes to time-limits for invitations, including the basic principles and principles for discussion. So far, the Court has had another institute, so-called A consulting session, to invite everyone interested, if I may say so, in the tide, where anyone who answers can participate, has resolved a number of questions. The public debate does not differ significantly from this, with the number of participants being much smaller. The Constitutional Court avoids public debate. I think they need to potentiate the public debate now. In the constitutional appeal, I will not open that question, there will be great problems in the work of the Constitutional Court. As agreed, the constitutional appeal comes as a fourth degree of protection. When said - protection of minority and human rights and freedoms etc., the question arises that we may not have entered the field where there is an organ that examines the rights and obligations of individuals. It's very difficult to make a difference where it starts and where it ends up with human rights and where it goes to individual rights and obligations. What distinguishes the court from the Constitutional Court is that the court settles disputes on the rights, obligations and interests of the individual. In the constitutional appeal, we'll have a sort of intertwination. Our constitutional appeal, as it is well-conceived here, is much more like the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, but know, on the basis of Article 50, they solve the issues of damages and material gains. So in the principle debate, I said not to touch this, we count on something court practice to do, and then later there's room to intervene in the law, because it's a whole new area. The federal constitutional court had virtually no experience with the constitutional appeal. We can talk that she existed, because it was octropic as law and could only go over the legal face, couldn't an individual turn around, talk to you about what legal persons could give, and it has been written to fight for human rights, etc. We have no experience. That's why we didn't want to touch it, because we think it should be promoted. Let me remind you of this one more time. That is why I believe that if the force of the constitutional appeal is so breathed that it looks quite like European courts for human rights, those criminal provisions cannot be violated, but much more should be disciplined, something that, for example, exists in a litigation procedure, where it sanctions against the conduct of the parties in the proceedings, and then has some reason to be in the Constitutional Court. But then another question opens up that can't be solved at this point, because we don't have experience and we don't know how it's going to go with us. You know, everything we've copied from the West literally becomes a cartoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10834	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else report for amendment of MP Momir Markovic? (No) We move on to the next amendment, the amendment to the 19th People's MP, Verica Radeta, but after an hour's break. Continuation is at 2.30 p.m. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10835	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon session. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who have been following the debate on the Constitutional Court's draft law in particular, have seen that the SRS Parliamentary Group has started with amendments only from chapter - Selection, appointment and termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court. We also had some objections to the members who had preceded these amendments, and we showed this by participating in the debate when considering amendments by colleagues and these other members, but we thought it was very important that this procedure regarding the election, appointment and termination of the office of the Constitutional Court be absolutely in accordance with the Constitution and that there should be no failure here. For this very reason, we have submitted amendments to Articles 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, as well as amendments to Article 19. It's a bill of law. I'm making this introduction because this amendment that I've submitted, in a way, is being added to the previous amendments. The point is that all these amendments before the amendment to Article 19 should be adopted in order for the amendment to Article 19 to make sense. We expected the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Mr Petrovic, as a representative of the Government, to understand the well-intention of our amendments, or our intention, that this text of the law, first of all, be likened to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that things that we had in the past were not happening to us, first of all, at a time when we had, on two occasions, a Constitutional Court and then, when we had a Constitutional Court, which was a party Constitutional Court. The best example is the former judges of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Ciplic and Vučetic. You remember the Constitutional Court's decision, when you read in one newspaper Mr. Chiplic's comment, which has its own view on a particular issue, and in another newspaper, Mr. Vučetic, with a completely different view, and the judges are the same Constitutional Court and took part in the same decision. There have been a lot of objections here concerning the fulfilment of the conditions for the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. Among other things, it's been said that all the candidates for the Constitutional Court's judges at this meeting are not judges, but I have to say that we have made significant progress, because they are all lawyers. I remind you, in the past Constitutional Court meeting, we had a graduate economist. It's something that's abnormal and illogical. Today, I suppose you, too, have read a column in a newspaper, as it seemed to me, written by Mr Vučetic, former President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. When I say ex, I stopped because I'm not sure if he's an ex if he's still getting paid. Mr. Petrovic, you didn't answer that. Yesterday you said you didn't have that information and yesterday it was an acceptable answer, but today, if you answer the same, it won't be acceptable, because you were obliged to find out from yesterday to this day, to answer the question to the MPs. Why do I even have to point this out? Because Mr Vučetic appeared with the column, with his fantastic explanation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When I saw what ignorance in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, then we should really be concerned about all the decisions that the Constitutional Court, in which it was convened, made and what those decisions were, because he reacted, it was obvious from this text, precisely because the MPs asked whether it was true that he was still receiving the salary of the Constitutional Court judge, even though he had been retired for several months. Apparently, he was personally hit. Then he tried to explain to the readers that MPs were misusing the Rules of Procedure. He said it refers to opposition MPs and, above all, LDP MPs and radicals. I don't know who the opposition is in this parliament, but I guess Vučetic knows what happens from time to time in the congregation majority. Then he tried to explain to us how members of 225 and 226 are being abused, because MPs are trying, he said, through these members to obstruct the work, to delay the debate, and to imagine, they are not talking about what is the subject of the agenda, which is regulated by Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I see he's read the Rules of Procedure, all the members he mentioned really exist in the Rules of Procedure, but the explanations are completely incoherent. I have to say, I can't believe that someone who's a lawyer can explain so stupidly the members of our own Rules of Procedure, individual members. He was distracted that someone had thought that, using Article 226, they were asking if Mr. Vučetic was still receiving a salary, and he's a pensioner. Then he estimated that this member could not be used, in fact, that it could only be a parliamentary question and some unbulful explanation. I really must, because often the President of Parliament hears such an objection, and I have explained it many times, to take this opportunity to explain too. The parliamentary issues are something that is a part of the agenda, and it has never been the point at this session before; it is now and, according to Oliver Dulic's promise, will be at every future session. That's good, but when something happens that doesn't suffer a delay, then you can't wait for the agenda to come to the agenda point - parliamentary issues. If, for example, today Mr Mujo Mukovic wanted to warn and meet the public of Serbia and to ask all citizens of Novi Pazar to be calm, to be in their homes, because there was a shooting at the mosque, then it would be completely pointless if Mr Mujo Mukovic had waited for the "Embassy Questions" point to come to the agenda and then to talk about it, when, God forbid, who knows what happened in Novi Pazar in the meantime. So, there are some situations where MPs are bound, because of that people who sent them here, to react according to that member of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that each time, or almost regularly, the questions raised do not appeal to the members, or to the representatives of the government and to this congregation majority, is indeed not the problem of the MPs doing their job. You have to understand that you have an opposition in Parliament, you have to understand that you have the strongest opposition party, the most human opposition party, the most human, otherwise, party in Serbia, that, thanks to your transge-frange combinations, we are still an opposition party. We won't leave you alone. We'll speak exactly as the opposition should speak. You, Mr. Minister, can't go through all these members, I'm speaking again - from Articles 13 to 19, to which I submitted the amendment, the Constitutional Court judges, to treat as aliens, as something out of time, out of space. According to your proposal, the judges of the Constitutional Court, I can't say they've been picked up from a branch, because it's still someone's got to do it, but it's like they fell off a branch. Then no one has any jurisdiction, no one can interfere with them in any way, not in the business, of course, but what is choice, appointment and termination of the office of the Constitutional Court, it certainly is jurisdiction, above all, of this Parliament. When we spoke, about a month ago, you were also here, Mr Petrovic, that a dangerous tribunal of the Serbian judiciary had begun, we did not have in mind the Constitutional Court, because we had not yet had this proposal. When we see the draft law on the Constitutional Court, it further confirms our suspicion and our fear, because you predict that once elected by the procedure set here, constitutional judges can never be resolved again until the end of the term of office. It's all about the Constitutional Court's decisions. We, in fact, must keep that in mind, i.e. This parliament elects 10 judges; we choose five of those proposed by Boris Tadic and we propose 10, of which Boris Tadic chooses five. All 10 are the motions of this House. The role of Parliament cannot then be ignored, if a conflict of interest occurs during the functioning and mandate of the Constitutional Court, there is a need to resolve a judge, etc. So let's say, we had nothing to do with it. Who's got it? He's got a Constitutional Court. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. That can't be. It can't be in that sense independent of any body in this country. The highest legislative body is this parliament, and before this Parliament everyone has to make an account. We have no intention of affecting this and of convincing you that Parliament must in any way influence the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and even less, don't God, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't think so. We don't think the Constitutional Court judges and the Constitutional Court are now some aliens, doing whatever they want, making decisions, breaking the law, coming into conflict of interest. These are all assumptions. Perhaps this new congregation will function ideally, perhaps we won't even have, from the opposition any objections to their work. Believe me, we'd be happiest then, because until the Constitutional Court does its job in accordance with the Constitution, we can't say we have a legal state, and we don't have one. We do not have it, and the proof is that we, the MPs of the SRS, had to be here for a month, every second or third day, to warn Mr Milan Markovic that he must do what the Law on Local Self-Government tells him to do. He finally had to make a recommendation to the Belgrade City Assembly yesterday to annul illegal and anti-business decisions. We want to have such an organ that will remember that it has to work in accordance with the law, not that the MPs have convinced it from here for a month that it has to work in accordance with the law. That's why we think, Mr. Minister, yes, according to Article 174. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you should accept all these amendments, and, as a consequence, the amendment to Article 19 that I have submitted myself, where I have foreseen and suggested that the first position of Article 19 be deleted, which reads: "In the course of the procedure for determining the fulfilment of the conditions for resolution, the judge of the Constitutional Court may be removed from office". This provision is completely unnecessary. I'm saying again, maybe you can't understand when you're only talking about article 19 and just this provision. You've been following up on the previous amendments. The logical trail is therefore to accept the amendment to Articles 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, and the logical consequence is the acceptance of this amendment as well. In that case, this section – Selection, appointment and termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court will be in accordance with the Constitution. Do not pass a law where the Constitutional Court judges will have as their first task, of course, when they solve those thousands of collected cases, how many of them there are unresolved because, thanks to you, not to you personally, but to the ruling majority, we have not had the Constitutional Court for almost a year, or it will be funny and tragic that the first work of the Constitutional Court in the new assembly will be, precisely, establishing the constitutionality and legality of the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10837	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) Thank you. National MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Article 19. The draft law on the Constitutional Court speaks of the discharge of the Constitutional Court judges and says that, during the procedure for determining the fulfilment of the conditions for resolution, the Constitutional Court judge can be removed from office. Paragraph 2 says - a decision on the distance of the Constitutional Court judge is made on the proposal of the President of the Constitutional Court. The LDP believes that this position is correct, except that we added something else here, so we suggest that Article 2 reads, or we have proposed, but it is not accepted - a decision on the distance of the Constitutional Court judge is made on the proposal of the President or at least three judges of the Constitutional Court. The LDP parliamentary group considers that this legal norm is necessary to ensure the effective decision of the Constitutional Court. It was an idea in a situation where the conditions for dissuasion of the Constitutional Court judges were being examined, that is, our intention was to prevent a possible blockade of this process, in case the President of the Constitutional Court failed to propose the distance of the judge. Such a situation can be imagined, there may be disagreement between the President of the Constitutional Court himself and some or most of the judges of the Constitutional Court. This way, i.e. This proposal, in fact, we wanted to allow the proceedings to be initiated by the judges without the process being brought into question by the President of the Constitutional Court himself. This will in no way endanger the position of the judge whose distance is being discussed, because the decision is certainly made by all the judges of this court, and by the majority of the votes of all the judges. We believe that there is no compelling reason to reject our proposal, for the simple reason that when it comes to the distance of the President of the Constitutional Court, the Court makes a decision on a proposal of at least three judges of the Constitutional Court, so we have, in practice, suggested the same solution when it comes to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Our idea was to prevent any self-will or potential refusal or delay of the President of the Constitutional Court, which could block the decision-making process of the judge's distance as long as the proceedings take place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10839	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, few of us are left, it's a mild day in Serbia today, Đurdzic is, to those who celebrate - happy fame, we have to work. It makes sense to make an amendment spoken by counterpart Milena Stankovic, because a decision on the distance of the Constitutional Court judge is made on a proposal from the president or at least three judges. If it were "i" instead of "or," then it would be questioned by the authority of the President of the Court and his position in this court. In this way, it also provides the Constitutional Court judges with a proposal, which does not mean that such a decision will be taken. This is just about starting this procedure. I believe it is not bad that the judges of the Constitutional Court have such an option, in which there is no question of the authority of the President of the Constitutional Court, and it is possible for those who, eventually, have a different opinion on this delicate issue that the initiative for the eviction of the Constitutional Court judge, since it is not about the excommunication of members of the local community delegation, although this can also be a serious job, but rather about the Constitutional Court of a State. Not to take up time, squirms, we can support this in the voting day, because we think it's not directed against anyone, but rather gives right to those we think it's the right thing to do, based on everything that's been said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10841	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the legislative committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as the predecessor for this speaker said, part of our citizens of Orthodox religion celebrates the Day of Renewal of the temple of the great Georges, and it is an opportunity for us to congratulate them from this place and on behalf of the Members of the SRS on this holiday. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it's interesting that whenever a more awkward situation occurs, for example. Mr. Krasic has made an observation here that we may be able to shorten our work, to be with people who celebrate, with our relatives and friends, with neighbors, suddenly, you chair. That's what you've noticed, we all notice, but on the other hand, you're agreeing to it. Before I move on to the amendment itself, may I take a few words to refer to a situation that pretty much upset the spirits of doctors yesterday, as well as the people who work in social protection. In this place, I would like, on behalf of the SRS, of all the members, not only of the MPs, to strongly condemn here the untrue, tenorous and malicious reporting so-called. NGOs dealing with the conditions of special needs management. This NGO, or more, has dared to say that our institutions of social protection and health care are plagued by the proteges. It's a big lie. We, the Serbian Radicals, are protesting and criticising the government, certain resolution ministers, because of the water policy, think that it can be better, but this is a huge lie. Namely, what is the purpose of such a malicious claim and untrue? The aim is to Satanise the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, where in one part of The Hague, it is necessary to show that the Serb people are genocide, through the skillful construction of a joint criminal enterprise and objective responsibility, where you can see that the president of our party Vojislav Seselj is very successful in fighting the plantings and lies that need to be confirmed. On the other hand, someone here has already said, along with the assistance of the people of our country, our citizens, unfortunately, you have an attempt to prove that fascism is a desirable thing here, that we are prone to fascism, and this is now once again a new blow and a wave to show that we are inhuman, savages, who are extremely unwittingly treated with these special needs. Look, what it's all about. We Serbian radicals told you that this thing with NGOs, with your friends from abroad, must end like this. That's how it started. For four years they have been present in this country. How are they present here? You invited them. You opened the door wide for them to do what they did. Unfortunately, certain leaderships of political parties also assist in all this, but I will not mention names, it is a mild day, not to be much stronger. Where are these NGOs to say that today in this country we are suffering from genocide sanctions, war and corruption, including those representatives of international communities? For four years of research, why didn't they say before, if they saw that there was inhumane behavior, if they were humanists, why didn't they stop it, why would they let it go? You see, one cynic in the West said what the help of a developed West is to this state, as it was designed from that west, and it was designed to be a "banana republic". What are they doing? They take the poor girl from the West to share here with individuals of desirable political options, for them desirable, all of it. Basically, it will prove to be a good part of the truth. I will now return to the subject of this amendment itself. In front of the SRS, I submitted an amendment and I felt that Article 21(2) should change. You see, as far as yesterday from this pay phone a heavy charge has been made that Serbian radicals are obstructing the work of the Assembly, they do not want the Constitutional Court elected. One very naive and funny qualification, and, look, from whom, from the main representative of the DS Group. Clearly, such a replacement of thesis, such an unskilled tampering, can't be achieved. Citizens see who is involved in the work here, who cares about one good law, I guess that's clear to everyone. We do not see, unfortunately, that MPs from other options, ruling, defending, or challenging some points of the law to repair it, and that is, I guess, the objective of the congregation debate. If you look at how laws are passed in developed countries of America, you will see that there is, firstly, a pre-debate, then a debate in parliament, which is both rich and wide. What is the point is that over 80 amendments are addressed to the bill, and we Serbian radicals have sent 29 amendments, in the best desire for this law to be better and to benefit the citizens of Serbia. No evil intentions and no criticism has been expressed here. I will try to prove it on this amendment, which I have made. You see, Mr. Minister, you answered me - the government does not accept the amendment, for the reason is that the solution is stated in the article. What is that, what kind of illiterate writing? Here, I repeat, the government does not accept the amendment, for the reason it is thought to be a solution. I'd say it's missing here - because, right? So it's not a letter mistake, it's not a letter. You see how messy it is, and now you're appealing, to say that yours is more accurate. Let me tell you that yours, perhaps, is not more accurate. I will now read to you, for the sake of the citizens who are watching this, as is the article of this 21st Law: "The Constitutional Court Judge to whom the duty has ceased has the right to pay six months' salary in the height of the Constitutional Court's salary." Then goes on that Article 2: "The right to compensation for the salary of the 1st Article's position can be extremely extended for another six months, if in that time the judge whose office has ceased to be entitled to an age pension". I deliberately skip the next, Article 3, and then you have a Article 4, where you say, "Right to pay from St. 1st and 2nd of this article ceases by establishing a working relationship or by obtaining the right to an age pension." What was our proposal? We said that Article 2 reads: "The right to pay shall cease before the six-month period if the judge whose office has ceased to have a working relationship or is entitled to a pension, and may be extended for another six months if he is entitled to retirement in those six months". Why did we propose this? Exactly, Mr Krasic is trying to tell you that we are fighting for a single legal-political system in this country. In this congregation, let me remind you, not long ago, some were present, we passed the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. Look, that law says nicely, Article 56, which elegantly, in two terms, states all of this here in four positions, in one big way. We, in a confusing way, took the wording from the Law on the salaries of civil servants. That formula says nicely, I'm not going to read it now, she's been taken over. One more thing, we're told this is more accurate. It's not. Our formulation includes the possibility of retirement for other reasons, not just thinking about retirement, and here there's already been a story that someone can go into disability pension, don't God, get sick, so this is more comprehensive. Mr. Minister, it's just our intensity. When we discuss, we read the legal solutions well, we follow the legal solutions so far, and this is legally far more precise, more effective, which is given in Article 56, where the position of functionors is spoken of. We believe that the judges of the Constitutional Court are the highest officials of this state. I hope you'll agree to that. Of course, I know you won't accept the amendment, we don't expect it, but I'm demonstrating from here that every proposal is extremely well-intentioned and that it has logic, and you see with your logic what you're going to do and how you're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10843	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is "Free Maras."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10844	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported in connection with Art. 101. and 104. Rules of Procedure. I wanted to talk about the amendments, however, what my colleague who spoke before me said, which, by the way, as far as I know, the doctor really forced me to report to the Rules of Procedure. The least I could expect from an expert doctor was that he would express concern about what we were witnessing, what we saw a few days ago and the story that was going on. Indeed, I did not expect a doctor to fall for the story that the executive authority started after the announcement, because I doubted most of all that, the moment these videos were released, the executive authority in the choir began to repeat that it was a political campaign. So, if those videos and they checked it all the way it's being checked, and then they came out with the fact that it's not like that, it'd be okay, because we're witnessing that these days there's a massive occurrence of parents whose children are in such institutions and they're saying that there have really been cases that their children have been subjected to certain situations that are not really appropriate. Of course, I don't think that those who did this did it out of intent that can't be described as human, but we can't accept an explanation that we would have to have 20 medical profession workers on one patient, so that it would be different then, as one of the ministers said. This horrendous repetition that it was a political campaign, it made me believe that, indeed, there is such a thing, and I expected that you, as a doctor, would show great concern about such a situation and ask yourself and us a question -- is it possible that such a thing exists, and not, like them, would repeat that it was just a political campaign. I wish it had been a few days, so if we had heard from those in charge - that there was no such thing in our country, fortunately, but at the same time react with such claims and that you would bow to it, I did not expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10845	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, then replica, Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised, Mr. Marash, that you take it so lightly, as well as for the most part, something that is suddenly, in this situation where our country is, out in public, in all the media, and I'm surprised that you didn't wait to get into a situation to make sure that these are true things. Because if you're transferring someone if they hadn't waited and he came out here as a doctor and made a certain finding, then you should act, too, at least, in the way you advise others. I can guarantee that this is another hoax to our country, in a series of those that have been happening to us since 1990. I can point out to you "Serbian camps for Muslim prisoners", the wires, behind them a sickly skinny man, who was depicted in the world as a man who was in a concentration camp, which was part of a fence around a trafo station in Republika Srpska, and then on the street of Vase Miskina, then Račak, not to indicate how much fraud was organized by NGOs, and all in the direction of the United States, to their organisations headed by William Walker, who allegedly came to Kosovo and Metohija to try to give the world a true picture of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and then it was determined that they were exclusively involved in locating targets for the bombing that had already been prepared in advance, for the weapons of pirate terrorists. You had a chance to see, during the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, the high representative, at that time, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Paddy Ashdown, who is talking to Shiptar terrorists, reviewing their weapons and convincing them that they will have the opportunity to get the most modern weapons, that the West is behind them and will help them to vote for independent Kosovo and Metohija. And this is the case of an NGO, headed by Sonja Biserko, who I guarantee from New York, manages, manages, in this situation where we are, so that Serbia can deal with other problems and be less prepared for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija than it would otherwise be that it can only deal with it, because this is the case. I have no reason to defend the government, but the government is being accused, the state is being accused, the Serbian people are being accused -- therefore they need to take Kosovo and Metohija. We just won't let that happen and we won't get over this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10847	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I seem to have been clear and precise. I don't like talking in the wind and usually try to measure the weight of every word. I said, in conclusion, that the social and health policies and institutions they have for special-needed protectors are not in this country in any case directed towards the abuse and torture of protégés. Here, now you're talking, you're giving me objections and you're not listening to what I'm saying. No, then I'm going to think that you're going out of somebody's mouth and that you're representing someone's attitudes when you're not listening to what I'm saying. What kind of debate is this, and you resent me? I listened very carefully. I'm not saying you have to, but I doubt it, then, what's the reason for you to get out. You see, I've worked in health care for 30 years, I've shared the fate of our patients, and in some better times, and in these difficult times, and now it's a very difficult time for most of the citizens of this country. Mr. Secretary had a very unpleasant show yesterday where he was surprised to find that when there were 9,000 and 16,000, that's normal. It's not normal, it's very difficult. Therefore, all the suffering of my people I know well. I also know the times when, at the time of the bombing, the sanctions, we gave our pregnant women a piece of bread and a piece of cheese, and I know that time. Where were those government organizations to raise their voice? None of the people objected. We knew we had to take it. I continue to claim that there is a conscience, the awareness of workers in social protection institutions and in health institutions that are listed here, that these institutions are not savage, they are not antihumans and that we are, primarily, human. This whole thing, if you want to mess with this whole health system, you won't be able to get it dirty. We have endured far greater challenges. And if the situation could and should be far better, that's for sure and we're fighting for it, indicating what caused it, at least the SRS never kept quiet there. Corruption bites this country, corruption is also in health care. We've never heard of these NGOs, here, now they've started, lately, now it's fashion, to deal with systemic corruption. Systemic corruption goes from the political summit to you who belong to one political option, which you share or inherit certain values, you are well responsible for what is happening to our people, for the suffering and those persons in special institutions. We won't explain, it's not time, and we can prove it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10849	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov. The word has been made by MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, so National MP Milena Stankovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10850	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, member of the 101st Rules of Procedure. We have a stenogram, we have those who keep the record here, so we can clearly see that I haven't said at any point that I agree or that I support the report of the NGO that's been forwarded, and I didn't say at any time that I want to tarnish the entire health care. I just said at one point, Mr. Momchilov, that I didn't expect you to throw away something like that and Priory where there might be some cases, for the simple reason that we've been witnessing in the last few days that the parents whose children are in such institutions are showing up, not to defile the entire health care, nor did I report for being on anyone's side. First of all, as a man and citizen of this country, I was worried about it. Of course, the health situation is difficult and, of course, a small number of people work in such institutions, an insufficient number of people who could serve anyone who is such a protégé. Mr. Todorovic, I know what your wish is. Your wish is to put this, as well as everything else, in the context of a big, wide campaign against the Serbian people. I reacted not to that, I reacted because, indeed, as a citizen, I was concerned about the situation. I can see that no one was moving that, and I thought it would take some time for the authorities to find out what kind of situation these protégés are in. It's not enough that there's a minister here, and there's a picture being hugged, to show that everything's okay. So I think it takes a more comprehensive analysis of what kind of situation the protégés are in, but I didn't expect to discuss it this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10851	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word has a folk MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Business, then, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10852	I'm reporting under Article 226, and I'm provoked by what Mr. Todorovic said. I am Kragujevčanka and in Kragujevac is the Centre for the Care of Adults "Little Bee". It's the biggest center of that guy in the Balkans. At the centre, about 1,200 people are currently taken care of, of which, more people with mental retardation, with special needs of this type, and there are also persons who are sick and who are there, too. What kind of defeats me is that on that list of human rights violations, I saw that stealing center, too, before I visited that center this summer. I was invited by the people who run the centre, as a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I must admit that the people who run that center have made a great effort to improve the conditions in which people live there. Indeed, this center at this point looks much, much better than it looked, for example. while you ruled this country. So let's say, at the time it was a rule, the doctors who were treating people were saying -- when there was no chemistry, we'd use physics, so there were a lot of patients who were tied up there, because there were no medications. What I have to admit is that despite the great efforts made to improve these people's position, there people still live very badly and I believe that there are also those whose rights, according to some strict criteria, are probably at risk. What I have to point out is that the position of these people is best possible in relation to the resources that the centre has at its disposal. The problem is, these funds are small. The funds are small because the state is poor and is unable to give these centres more money. When we talk about all this, it is very important to say that we are trying to introduce Serbia to a modern, beautiful, we are trying to brand it, and these centres are Serbia-like. There is no such advice and there is no Milka Forcan, or any other expert who can make up something that is what it is, it is a picture of Serbia. We here in parliament have to say, okay, that's what we can do. What is it that MPs, what is it that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do that the situation is not what it is, and not as soon as such things go public, as soon as it becomes clear that such problems exist, we say that this is the result of some orchestrated campaign that is being led against our country. It's not that, it's simply the truth about us and it's a problem that we, first of all, have to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10853	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Milena Stankovic. The Republic has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't deal with conspiracy theory to prove something, it exists. From all the facts we can come to today, things are undeniable, the United States, the Vatican and the West, headed by Germany, they're headed for the destruction of the SFRY. I don't know how much more evidence you need to accept these facts. They served everyone and everything. I've only given you some examples of what they've been doing. They think it's allowed, that it's a kind of trickery that they have the right to resort to in order to achieve their goal. Here, let me mention one case that you all know is not about Serbia, so it doesn't turn out to be a conspiracy theory against Serbia. You know the case of Iraq and the charges by the United States that Iraq produces weapons of mass destruction. One commission, another commission, so the president of the commission publicly said there was no evidence in Iraq that there was weapons of mass destruction, but nothing helped. The United States has decided to get hold of Iraq's oil sources, to get hold of the wealth of the Iraqi people, as they want to get their hands on the wealth of the Serbian people, or any other nation in the world. You know the transcripts of the Bush-Bler conversation. You had a chance, a few days ago, to read in the paper a conversation between Bush and Asnar, as they prepared in the Security Council a resolution that would allow them to bomb Iraq. So they've prepared everything in advance. You're accusing me, as it was Serbia, of dealing with conspiracy theory. No, I don't. I'm saying that the conspiracy existed, that it exists, and I'm just stating the facts that support it. That is the essence of the matter and, unfortunately, in all this great help they have been given so - called. NGOs, who were their predecessor, and carried out all the tasks and tasks that were coming to them from Washington, to make it easier for them to do so. I have no reason to defend our health care at one time, in the image of the Minister of Health, the Government. I'm a representative of the opposition party, but I want to defend my country. If that's the situation, let's see, let's do what needs to be fixed, not that Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Natasa Kandic and a variety of other scum in the U.S. service, that they tell us what we need to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10855	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, also a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am, reporting for a replica and I don't think there's any need to spread further debate, but let me just answer Mr. Marash. It's not my reaction undosed. I'm telling you again, I've been working in health care for 30 years, I've been following up on what's going on, and I know what the situation is. I'm not saying there are no excesses in the medical service and there are no phenomena we wouldn't want, but they're excesses and they need to make a clear distinction. It's not systemically, as it is here to say that someone systematically and systematically submits to the torture of this person. That's my intervention, clearly, and you're making a difference. A young colleague came out here and said it was much worse, and now it's much better. Yeah, she just forgot to say there were sanctions, and as long as they lasted, she just forgot to say there was a war, and we're not moving on. Can you imagine the situation, just open your eyes when you get out on the street, see how our pensioners are looking for bread bark in the containers? Do you realize that in this country there is 20 percent, even more, below the minimum of poverty? It is clear to you that this Serbia has a huge problem, which is why we are criticising, and you will never admit, you on this left hand side, from that European option, that the main problem of our country, I have clearly said, the ruling option, if you want me to be precise, is that it is a major problem that our people's biological integrity is undermined. You will, as far as tomorrow, here, when you vote on the budget, when this Cvetkovic comes out to you and when he starts to implement what the IMF told him to do, you will warmly vote to reduce resources for social protection and reduce resources for health care. You'll raise your hands for it, we won't. In this situation, even to a young colleague, there is more mortality today in Serbia than in 2000. Why? Because the enthusiasm of health workers was great anyway, so the Westerners were amazed at how we endured it, what they intended for us. They couldn't strangle us as fast as they might have wanted some; I'm not saying, of course, that's what the citizens of Europe wanted, but certain monsters wanted it, maybe. So now you've got worse indicators and you're going to vote as much as tomorrow to cut funds, because public spending needs to be narrowed down, and at the same time you're going to hire, in administration, in ministries, in agencies, your party friends and friends. In that time we live and I have never heard that you criticized it, and these are the key problems that need to be revealed, criticised and tried to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10857	I thank Dr. Pai Momchilov. Moving to Article 24. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Next, National MP Rajko Baralic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Dusan Bajatovic came to the floor. Here you go. Of course, after that, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10858	I apologize to my colleagues on behalf of my colleague Rajko Baralic, because something urgent had to come out. Here, I'll try to explain the basic intensity of his proposal. By the way, he was very active today, and he's away for private reasons. It's not about fame, unfortunately, Veronica. [[The Intruder of the Place, The Witch of Radeta: He went to glory.]] I know you've been very well informed, as you can see, but it's not fame. Let's not talk now and waste valuable time. It is said here that the President of the Constitutional Court represents, in the proposal, in Article 24, the Constitutional Court, convenes meetings, proposes agendas and chairs of sessions, aligns the work of the Constitutional Court, takes care of the implementation of acts of the Constitutional Court and performs other duties laid down in this law, Rules of Procedure and other acts of the Constitutional Court. Our position is, and that is said in the amendment tabled by counterpart Baralic – yes, after the word "presents", the words "handling the Court" should be added. The government has rejected this amendment, because it says - that the President of the Constitutional Court is only the first among the equals, is that so, and in that description of the cases, it is not the Court's handling, so it is said that there is a secretary who is in office of a civil servant here. We still stay in it so that it would be good to get here to run the Court, because man, above all, proposes the agenda and does some other things. So it's not against what's been said here. It's not logical for anyone to think, though, that it's not clear here that the work of this court will be managed by a civil servant, but simply by the President of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I would ask my colleagues, even though the government has come forward, to consider this. We believe that the handling of such an institution cannot be limited only to the presentation of the Court, but that the powers given to the President of the Court and his deputy, elected in a certain way, speak of them being more responsible for the court's work, in terms of its activities in practice. I would pray, therefore, that this amendment should, if possible, be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10859	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10860	Minister Petrovic, you should accept the amendment either by Mr Vladan Batic, whether Mr Rajko Baralic is, in essence, thinking the same way by other amendments. This is where the words "handling the Constitutional Court" are added, and here, "handling the Court". So the essence is the same. Why do I think this amendment should be accepted? A moment ago, when I was talking about the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I tried to explain to you that the Constitutional Court did not see you as some aliens, like some untouchable miles. Now, on the basis of this Article 24, it turns out that this Constitutional Court is indeed some kind of wizard in heaven or on earth. They exist out there, and no one has any idea how this Constitutional Court is going to be handled -- nobody really does. That these amendments are good, you've confirmed exactly your argument. I get surprised every time. When someone writes to you, Mr. Minister, not only to you, but also to government representatives, why don't you explain to them that they need to make sure that the argument is so that they convince the MPs that you are right, as the MPs convince you, by reason? That's why the amendment is complementary. For the messenger of the people often writes a sentence in an explanation, only to satisfy the form, and the essence is from this place. Of course, that's why you're sitting here, listening to the MP and saying on behalf of the government, or you, as a resolute minister, that you have the authority to accept some amendment, whatever the government didn't accept it. I think you have that kind of authority. Why don't you accept the amendment? You say in your explanation, colleague Rajko Baralic, that this is the same reason that was given to Vladna Batic. Reason is this - The Government does not accept the amendment for the reason it considers that the President of the Constitutional Court performs those functions referred to in Article 24. It's a bill of law that doesn't include handling this court. That's clear, that's why the amendments were put in. But you see what you say next - since he is only the first among the same among the judges of the Constitutional Court, and then the most interesting part - while the professional service is handled by the secretary of the Constitutional Court, who is responsible for the Constitutional Court, which is also prescribed in Article 26(2). It's a bill of law. So, the Constitutional Court's professional service -- that's something else. It is, therefore, a service serving the Constitutional Court, which performs technical tasks for the Constitutional Court and so on, that is, of course, a professional service. The professional service has a secretary, and that is fine, as this parliament has a secretary, not only as a parliament, but as a secretary of management and the work of professional services, but there is also a President of Parliament, who does other jobs. In your explanation, you actually wrote and explained that the Constitutional Court is not being managed by anyone. The President of the Constitutional Court represents him, the secretary is in charge of the service - and no one is in charge of the Constitutional Court. There must be someone. It has to, because it's not the Constitutional Court that's just sitting there, ambushing, arguing, but situations happen when something has to be decided in that Constitutional Court, that there's something to be agreed on in that Constitutional Court, not just to be represented. What's it like? Do you think presenting in terms of how it has been so far - that the Constitutional Court judges comment on proposals and promoters, or do you think as Vučetic now does in a column in the paper and so on? We didn't put this amendment on, because we didn't consider this part of the Constitutional Court to be the technical part, which is why we couldn't stand the amendments. But I think one of these two amendments should be accepted. I don't really care which one, or I don't know which one would be better technically, because this is where the Constitutional Court repeats itself twice. It's less important and it's purely technical. But, formally, there should be, for the record, who is who and is in charge, in a sense, the Constitutional Court. Of course, it's not handling in the broadest sense, but it certainly has to exist. There has to be, because every organ is being run by someone. Management and collective responsibility, Mr. Petrovic, and we agree, I hope. So one of these two amendments should be accepted, and if you don't accept it, fellow MPs should even agree on parliamentary groups that will accept from the amendments, because it doesn't matter. It's the same in both amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10861	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Vereca Radetti. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? (No) Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of Chapter 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10862	Thank you very much. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected that after the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the first session, one of the main points would be the draft law on the Constitutional Court, above all, because the Constitution defined that we had to do so, and also because Mr Petrovic, at the time he was the MP of the opposition, publicly advocated the formation of the Constitutional Court. We felt that when someone theoretically advocates a particular proposal, the moment he comes into a situation, like you, he will do so practically. I didn't want to define things in this direction, given that the SRS has been accused of making obstructions in time so that the Constitutional Court law would not be passed, but I want to say that, because of the 1,000 cases pending before the Constitutional Court, many citizens, exactly, expect it to be formed as soon as possible. I'll just have one subject and one problem to define. It is that the democratic forced administration in Leskovac began to last since 12 April 2007, contrary to Article 114. Law on local self-government and against the original definition of citizens. The competencies and powers of the local assembly, as well as the provisional authority, are the same, but the capacity to implement, in any case, are not equal. Leskovci residents are not interested in forced administration within the DS Municipal Committee, but in the functioning of an illegal interim body, as well as in the temporary council in the largest municipality in Serbia and in the interest of Leskovčane. Therefore, they look forward to the formation of the Constitutional Court, so that one of the problems that draws, above all, the Jablani County can be defined in the best possible way, thanks to the respect of the law and the Constitution. Therefore, representatives of the SRS have submitted an amendment to the procedure before the Constitutional Court – participants in the procedure, paragraph 1, where it is defined that each initiative has initiated a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality, in the follow-up text, the initiator. The amendment of the SRS was defined to replace the word 'every' in Article 29(1) in point 2) with 'legal or physical person' and the word 'initiator' in the words 'initiator' in the words 'initiator'. The amendment is a legal technical provision, and the word 'initiator', which is a jargon, is replaced by the right words. You can't say – everyone, much better sounds – legal or physical. There is no third subject, next to a legal or physical person. It's better to stand one word more than there is legal inaccuracy. In any case, the Legislative Committee was able to correct the legal technical member of the 29th and to define it in good time. The laws have to be clearly defined, not glegonically, by what DS representatives are used to, say, "getting out on the line," as well as some similar passwords. Therefore, the SRS insists on establishing the principles of government, above all, rights and justice. It is in the spirit of Serbian language - the applicant of the initiative, not the initiator. Furthermore, the applicant of the initiative is not the same as the initiator. That's why the term you suggested is not legally accurate. The initiator may be Mr Tadic and the applicant of the initiative is Mr Kostunica, so the shortcomings of your proposed Article 29. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act. The explanation you gave that the term 'initiator' already exists in the applicable law on the procedure before the Constitutional Court, as well as that the legal fact of its decisions applies to Article 24, is absolutely unacceptable. It's unacceptable, first of all, because you can't make a bad suggestion to justify an existing bad solution from some existing law. I hope you've been given a large number of arguments and we've shed light on the necessary use, above all, legal exact terms. That is why I call on all MPs to accept the amendment of the SRS, and I hope the minister of justice has decided that, after my presentation, he accepts these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10863	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? (No) Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also pointed out in the principle debate on the proposal for this law that the bill contains a number of shortcomings, both legal and linguistic. We now face a provision, or phrase that is not really common in legal terminology and in our positive legislation. In Article 29. The bill says that everyone whose initiative has initiated the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality has the status of participants in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Such a termology is simply not legal. Anyone who has graduated from law school knows that entities are right - either natural or legal persons, that there is no third category of legal entities that could possibly participate in proceedings before the Constitutional Court or in proceedings before any other state body. We really do not understand why you do not use the usual terminology, but use a daily term, which is not legally established and has no basis in positive legislation. The question is, what does the word – everyone? Does this mean that underage persons can initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court? Does this mean that persons with no business ability can initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court? So there are no criteria. It would be good, Mr. Minister, to respect the constructive objections of the MPs of the SRS, and I think your colleagues from your ranks will also point out that terminology in many places in this law is not legal terminology. We're talking about the bill. Every law, at all, each profession has its own terminology and it is not good that you are now, at once, changing the standard way of expression and entering some everyday words, some jargons, words from the street, journalistic phrases, etc. Legal terminology has its own legality, and we're all used to thinking in certain legal categories. The legal category is a legal person. The legal category is a physical person, but the word – everyone, simply, is not a legal termology. It would be good to respect this amendment. We're really trying to fix the bad legal proposals you're sending us and it's not easy to write amendments to laws that are bad from the beginning to the end. We're trying to make such bad bill proposals, to some extent, if that's possible, to fix it. Furthermore, it is said that the summary term, i.e. the common term for the phrase: "Each one whose initiative is the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality", is the word: "initiator". It is better, as Mr Cvetanovic said, and it is in the spirit of the Serbian language to say "initiator" than "initiator". It would be good if we had every notion of our own, domestic, folk word. We use the Latin term "initiative", but I think it's better to adapt this to the spirit of Serbian language and not to say "initiator", but to say "initiator". So, if the bill leaves a participant in the procedure to be 'everyone', then it opens the door to a number of other issues, who are the subjects right, who can participate in the procedure before the Constitutional Court, whether tomorrow and some child, possibly, can submit an initiative to assess constitutionality and legality, etc. So, Mr. Minister, I urge you to accept the amendment of MP Goran Cvetanovic and to bring the terminology set out in this bill into line with some common legal expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10865	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10866	In this list of amendments that we have received, there is little difference in order, so there is a misunderstanding. I thought you skipped the amendment I filed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The draft law, which states that the holder of the contested general act is obliged to submit the contested general act within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, which cannot be shorter than 15 days, etc. My proposal for an amendment says, "In Article 34, in Section 1, and in Section 2, the words "15 days" are replaced by the words "30 days". "By thinking about how to start a discussion on this amendment, I simply couldn't help but start with what the government had given as an explanation. It is said: "The government does not accept the amendment, since it is also Article 34(1). The bill prescribed that the deadline cannot be shorter than 15 days." That's exactly what I gave the amendment to. I can't believe the explanation of why my amendment isn't being accepted is just mentioning what it says in the law. You have to admit it doesn't make sense. If I ask it to change, and you, as an excuse for what I've been looking for, say it can't, because what I've been asking to change is written in the law, I think it's very illogical, and I can say it unprofessionally. Whoever wrote this, either had no other reason to reject this proposal, or he had no imagination to come up with something smarter. Why do I insist that this deadline be 30 days? It is said that if the constitutionality or legality of an act, decisions, regulations, statutes, etc. is challenged, we may be in a situation that the authority which adopts that act cannot, within 15 days, ambush and make any changes or deliver what the Constitutional Court requires of it. I tried to show you on a practical case why those 15 days are quite short notice. It says: "The Constitutional Court's decision number" and that I am not bothering you," "since 22 June 2004, it was found that the Statute of the Association of War Military Disabilities of Serbia, since 18 December 1999, has not been in accordance with the law. The Constitutional Court has made such a decision because it has established that that Statute has been adopted by the Assembly of the Association of RVIs, as a body that makes up delegates elected in lower-form congregations, not members of the Association, by personal declaration, to which they are bound by Article 21(3). The Law on Social Organizations and Citizens' Associations." Now I have one thing to tell you. First, this procedure was prescribed by the M.O.P. It's probably clear to you. We can run an analysis with parties. All statutes of organisations shall be adopted in the congregations of those organisations, as the highest bodies of those organisations. That's how it was in this case. However, let us take the case of an organization that has 100,000 members. There are such organizations as fighters' associations, associations I don't know which people. With this attitude and this interpretation of the Constitutional Court, these people are almost impossible to make changes to the statutes, no matter how much the need for it was. I'll tell you one more example. The Statute of the RVI Association provides that there are 60 members of the Management Board, from each municipality, that one is registered. In the meantime, we've registered 30 more new municipal committees, we want to change the statutes, say that the board of directors now has 90 members. We cannot do this at the Association Assembly, because the Association has 10,000 members scattered throughout Serbia's territory. It is almost impossible to make an amendment to the Statute. What does that mean? Practically, it means that you are acting illegally, that for every decision you make as an Association, a state body that runs the register of organisations, in this case it is a MUP, and in another case the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government may say that it is completely illegal, because it is not in accordance with the Statute. What's the point of this whole story? The statute of this organization provides for you to send material to the Assembly 30 days before the Assembly is held. When we want to make a change to an act, we cannot do it or deliver all these documents, because delivering documents requires some decisions of the Assembly, which is logical, because the whole procedure of changing the Statute, which is related to this, requires some deadlines. So, I propose, as well as the SPS Parliamentary Group, that you accept this change from 15 to 30 days, because this will allow some decisions that require a meeting of numerous bodies, bodies that have a large number of members, to be made within a time limit that will not be applied. I hope this, since it's about the shortest time, won't have a major impact on the breach of the procedure. We just want to avoid the possibility of one of the Constitutional Court judges saying that in the 16th day you have to bring it in and say you haven't brought it in within 15 days. That's all I want to ignore. Otherwise, since it's a minimum term, I don't think it's going to be a big problem to fix it for 30 days. It wouldn't significantly change the essence of this article, nor the essence of the whole law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10867	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 36th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) In the name of the Proposer, the word has been made by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Sreto Peric, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, has, by amendment, intervened on Article 36. The draft law on the Constitutional Court, by amending paragraph 3 in paragraph 1. Article 36 refers to the Constitutional Court’s rejection of the proposal, initiative, constitutional appeal, application, or other act that initiates the procedure, and in point 3) is said - when the applicant did not, within the time limit left, remove the shortcomings that make it impossible to act. Our intervention is to replace the word "bearer" with the words "participator in the process". Therefore, that the Constitutional Court rejects the proposal, the initiative, the constitutional appeal, the request, or another act which initiates the procedure where, within the time limit set, the participant in the procedure did not remove the shortcomings that make it impossible to act. Why do we think this is a good legal technical provision, I'd say, this member? Because exactly what counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic was saying, here, and through this article comes expression. Every law, every legal norm has to be precise and clear. If it remained as proposed in Article 36, then you would actually have to list all the participants in the process. You'd have to say - when, in the time left, the applicant, I don't know, constitutional complaints, the applicant requests, initiatives, etc. We suggest that the words "participator in the process", because the applicant is a participant in the procedure, shorten the possibility, that it is not necessary to write what kind of participants are in the process, or how someone participates in the procedure before the Constitutional Court. Your argument is that you do not accept the amendment to Srete Perić because the government considers the solution to the bill to be more precise. I never understand your explanation, which means more specifically. So you have no concrete objection to this amendment, but you think the proposed solution is more precise, and we, however, think that legal-technical precision is what is contained in the amendment of counterpart Sreta Perić. I think it would be good for you to accept this amendment or to accept the suggestion of the amendment, so that you don't have to, after the word "bearer", as it says here, to specify all the acts that initiate the procedure or initiate it. Of course, that wouldn't be good, it's more descriptive, and in laws, legal norms, you can't use descriptive terms, but it has to be concrete, clear and precise in what you want with this article. This member, like everyone we talked about here today, somehow gives me the impression that you have a very strange relationship with the Constitutional Court. Of course, the Constitutional Court is very important, if not, in certain situations, and the most important institution in the state. That's not controversial. I don't know which time I repeat it to you today, the Constitutional Court isn't something that's going to fall off a pear and it must exist, so you can't leave, which is why I'm going to be saying this over the next amendment, too many possibilities of precision, or, I don't know, standardizing some things with the rules of procedure. We must have, first of all, the Constitution, and based on it we must have constitutional law and see that the Constitutional Law is such that everything that is possible is contained in it. You've just prescribed some constitutional norms here, and you've left a lot behind the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, which is not good. Of course there should be a Rules of Procedure, but it must be the legislator who will precisely define the role of the Constitutional Court, of course based on the Constitution, because the Constitution is the one who framed both the role and the function of the Constitutional Court. I repeat, I have the impression that the Constitutional Court is something, about, like -- come on, faster or better, to pass this law, to elect these 10 judges, because those five God-knows-when, and we don't care what happens in that Constitutional Court. Do these laws, the future judges, cause us problems at the beginning, will bad law cause problems in the course of work? They will, for sure. Again, I am telling you, this law and its provisions will be something that will be the first affairs of the new constitutional court, because we will, quite certainly, apply for a constitutionality and the legality of a number of members of this bill when it comes into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10869	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. A member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the legislative committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10870	The sequel, I've already started, in a way, on this amendment, because amendments can, in a certain way, connect. Let me remind you that article 40. The draft law states that the Constitutional Court may postpone or suspend public hearings for the purpose of obtaining the necessary data, notices and opinions, as well as in other justified cases. We suggested, i.e. I, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to add two new positions in front of this position, which I have read, and to say: 'To the participants in the procedure and other persons invited to a public debate, a written invitation shall be delivered no later than eight days before the public hearing is held. The Constitutional Court may, depending on the case of the dispute, set a shorter time limit for the delivery of written calls.' This is something that needs to be regulated by law. I don't know if I should realize that this was a slip from whoever wrote this law. And if it were intention, I can't believe it, because without this deadline, there's no law in this text at all. The truth is that the government said, and that's what I just started saying, that this amendment is not accepted, and that -- the government doesn't accept the amendment for the reason it's a member41. The draft law provides for other issues related to public debate to be settled by the Rules of Procedure, which includes a deadline for calling for public debate, for the reason that such a solution is more comprehensive, since there are a number of different procedures that can be conducted before the Constitutional Court. First of all, I don't understand why you added this -- that there are a number of different procedures that can be conducted in front of the Constitutional Court. It is contained in both the Constitution and the law and it has nothing to do with this amendment. What did you regulate with article 41, which you refer to in this explanation? You say other issues related to the public debate are being brought closer to the Rules of Procedure. This isn't good. This is not good, because this deadline, indeed, Mr Petrovic, must be regulated by law. I'm telling you, first of all, from the experience we have as an SRS, I was saying it in principle debate. Our party probably had the most initiatives to examine the constitutionality and legality of certain acts, we had constitutional complaints about elections and election results, election thefts, etc. And we know perfectly what the relationship of the Constitutional Court is with the applicants of the initiative, when they choose whom they call, whom they will inform, whom they will not. I've already told you, it's happened, my colleague Zoran Krasic and I, mostly, were in charge of the SRS's name to participate in these public debates before the Constitutional Court, that people in the Constitutional Court would inform us, if no one knew – do not say that I called you, or called you, but these have scheduled a public debate on your initiative, and you are not informed about it. We were going to read in the paper, a day or two after that public debate was held and decided that the public debate was held, and we as initiators, the applicants of the initiative, have no idea that the public debate was held; neither did anyone call us nor who informed us. So just because we have that experience, we want someone else, in the future, not to have the same experience. It's not superfluous, so we're not disturbing the essence of the bill to you with this amendment. There's a Rules of Procedure to regulate, but it's not too high to predict in the law what is the deadline for making the call, which is the shortest time. What you predicted could be a shorter deadline somewhere, it must be clear and accurate, it must be an appropriate deadline. When you go to a public hearing before the Constitutional Court, before the Constitutional Court judges, then, as much as you're a good lawyer, you have to prepare yourself well, you need to know what you're going to say there, to convince these Constitutional Court judges, which are exceptional, at least by definition, lawyers, and what they'll be like in practice, we'll see, and they can't tell us by phone today to come tomorrow. There must be an appropriate deadline. The court, I suppose, has some work plan, at least within a month has a plan and a work schedule, to invite participants in the process, to submit the initiative, so that they can mate and really participate actively in such public debates. I really don't see why it bothers you to accept this amendment. It will be easier for all future participants in the procedure before the Constitutional Court, and it will be easier, of course, for the judges of the Constitutional Court. I am convinced, whoever is elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, that he will be happy to get as much from the Court's work as possible, as much detail as possible prescribed by law, and that as little as possible of what has to be prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any reason for you not to accept this amendment, so there's no problem tomorrow. Imagine now, when a constitutional appeal is introduced, the constitutional appeal will be filed by people who are not lawyers. You yourself know all the situations in which a constitutional appeal can be filed, from people who can't just get to the Constitutional Court, who don't know anyone who's gonna notify them by phone that a public debate is scheduled, etc. So there will be a lot of situations where such an inaccurate legal norm can be harmful to the one for which this law is passed, and I guess it is brought for the citizens of Serbia and for the sake of legal certainty, above all. I don't know if you've considered accepting this amendment. If you do not do so, I am convinced that fellow MPs in the voting day will vote for this amendment, because it is truly meaningful, concrete and simply making it easier to work. Because if we are left to regulate ourselves with the rules of procedure, then we will have what I said this morning when I spoke of an amendment, then we will have the tribunal of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we will have a Rules of Procedure that will regulate all legal gaps and gaps of this law, everything you have not accepted. Then in the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, since no one is even handling the Constitutional Court, according to your proposal, they will be able to say, like that of your Zeljko Ozegovic, that the Constitutional Court can, through the media, inform that there will be some public debate and if someone reads there, they will be able to see that a public debate is scheduled on his initiative. Whoever doesn't read the paper won't even know it was a public debate, and then the judges will later say -- what we're guilty of, it says in our Rules of Procedure that you can read it in the papers, was why you didn't read it. So I don't understand why you won't accept a really serious amendment that will remove any suspicion, at least in this part. Many doubts remain, and will remain, and when this law is passed, not to speak of personalities, we have spoken of, of people who will be judges of the Constitutional Court, but I don't see why you don't want to be helped to remove at least one part of the doubt by regulating everything that needs to be regulated by law. You can't put everything down on sublaws because deadlines are something that's not some formality that can be a matter of agreement between these two-thirds of the Court. I don't just know what's funny to you, colleague Stanimirovic. Have you ever heard of the Constitutional Court, except for Judge Ciplic, who was a member of the Democratic Party and Judges of the Constitutional Court? Maybe that's funny. It is sad for us, as we will find sad for many other names you will now choose, which are also functionaries of your parties. Indeed, if a MP laughs when it comes to such an important problem in the state of Serbia, then I really don't know what to say about such an MP and the party he represents in this House. Yesterday, you accused the SRS of not caring for the adoption of this law, that we do not care to form a Constitutional Court and that for this reason we are speaking according to the Rules of Procedure, in order to spend only such time, and from yesterday to this day you learned that your minister, the minister from your party, in writing, admitted that the SRS MPs were right, so he had to make a recommendation to the Belgrade Assembly to abolish the decisions made on 8 October. Yesterday was funny to you, just like you found this funny today. So it's not good, if you can't listen, then nice, like all your colleagues, since all four of you are left, come out and you, there will be enough of these three who are there, who obviously want to listen, at least pretend to listen to what we're saying. Minister, I am convinced of you to follow what the People's Messengers say, and I know that as an apostle you followed, so we often replicated each other very often. Now, as an MP to the minister, I suggest you take this as a serious argument, as a serious debate, accept this amendment, you will be grateful to your party comrades that you will choose in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10871	The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic, Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10872	I would like to give a few principled objections to Mr. Minister's presence at this session of the National Assembly before I give an explanation for the amendment. The MPs of the National Assembly have submitted 81 amendments, which technically, which is essential, and the government has accepted only six and six amendments are mostly technical, not essential. The LDP parliamentary group has submitted more than 40 amendments, and only one amendment has been accepted by Dr Vladan Batic, who is also more technical than essential. Now I would like to get an explanation of whether the amendments written by the professors of law school are so bad and whether the law, or the draft law on the Constitutional Court, is so good. To remind you, in this bill, it states, on the one hand, that the decision of the Constitutional Court of the party in the proceedings may exclude them from the insight into the files, and, on the other hand, that it can be carried out, in accordance with Article 3. The draft law, the obstruction of the Constitutional Court's work, by providing everyone with insight into the files, and then the same bill, instead of giving a detailed procedure as proposed and appointed by the Constitutional Court judges, the non-own-law, as a lower act, points to a higher act, or to the Constitution. This law also contains provisions on the dismissal and exclusion of judges of the Constitutional Court, without established procedure, how this is done, and without the right to legal remedy to the judges of the Constitutional Court in the proceedings, not to list further all faults and gaps of this law. So, according to the government's assessment, the law is not empty, but is good, and the amendments written by respected and prominent experts on legal sciences have been assessed as unreasonable and rejected by the government. I would now refer to the amendment to Article 42, which was submitted by the LDP parliamentary group. Article 42 reads as regards the form of the Constitutional Court: ''The Constitutional Court shall decide on matters of its jurisdiction at its sitting. The Constitutional Court shall also be chaired by the President of the Constitutional Court. The minutes shall be kept at the session of the Constitutional Court. The manner of work and decision-making at the Constitutional Court session shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Court may, in order to clarify matters in the case, hold other sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure'. We have submitted an amendment supplementing this article and where, after that, Article 2, a new position 3, which reads as follows: "The President of the Constitutional Court must schedule a session when at least seven judges of the Constitutional Court so request and must put on the agenda a point proposed by at least five judges of the Constitutional Court." The reason for this amendment is that so far experience in the functioning of the Constitutional Court in Serbia has shown that there have been relatively frequent situations in which, due to the passivity of the President of the Constitutional Court and the objective prevention of the appointment of the session, many important and urgent issues opened before the Constitutional Court have not been resolved in a timely manner. Therefore, LDP MPs, consistently following the logic of facilitating and speeding up the work of the Constitutional Court, want this amendment to enable a way out of situations like this and to ensure efficiency in the work of the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendment gives authority to a number of judges, therefore, seven judges, as set out in the amendment, ask the president to schedule a session or put a certain point on the agenda, and this requires an initiative of at least five judges, as set out in the proposed amendment, thus ensuring that judges of the Constitutional Court participate more actively in the work of the Court and potentially raising awareness in the work. If we remind ourselves that the deadlines are the scarcity of the entire text of the bill, this is one way to alleviate this deficiency as much as possible. The government's reasoning for the refusal of this amendment is that the government does not accept the amendment, because it is in the position of Article 42(4). The draft law provides for the working and decision-making of the Constitutional Court session to be governed by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall be brought by the Constitutional Court itself, according to the facts which the members of the opposition parties in Parliament have made, to follow the appointment of a one-party court. The question is whether the rules of procedure that will bring the so-called court will be avoided or mitigated by this anomaly, not to mention that if it wishes to mitigate this anomaly of the text of the law, the rules of procedure may be contrary to the text of the law itself. That's why I don't understand why the government refused this amendment. Mr. Chairman, allow me, since the following amendments have also been tabled by LDP MPs, to take advantage of the time and to give an explanation for these amendments as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10874	Therefore, it is the amendment to Article 44 and the amendment to Article 45. As for Article 44, the acts of the Constitutional Court. It reads - The Constitutional Court makes decisions, solutions and conclusions. Article 44, following Article 1, in the proposed amendment, should follow Article 2, which reads - judges may, with a decision, attach their own opinion, which constitutes an integral part of it. The draft law does not contain a provision that would allow judges of the Constitutional Court to formally express their views when making decisions or to publish those opinions. We believe that it is celery and necessary for this Member of the Constitutional Court Bill to be complemented by such an amendment, especially if we refer to the possibility that this option existed in previous decisions on the conduct of the Constitutional Court. So, it exists in the current law on procedure before the Constitutional Court, which is an art. 27th and 28, and I don't know why we would end this possibility, which so far existed. Either the government's intensities are concerned, or it is aimed at party unanimity, i.e. a party agreement that will rule in the Constitutional Court, which is inadmissible on the legal side. Finally, I would like to give an explanation for Article 45(1). Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act. Article 1 reads - The Constitutional Court finds that the law, the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government and the other general act does not comply with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and the approved international agreements, or that it was not in agreement with the Constitution at the time of validity. Point 3 says -- it states that the confirmed international contract is not in agreement with the Constitution. However, as a lawyer, I must agree that the Constitution has given quite a narrowed opportunity to apply such an amendment, because the Constitution has one concise solution, but from a detailed explanation, which I would not now repeat, I would only give it in short lines, it is evident that the intention of the applicants of the amendment was that the anomaly of the Constitution would be lessened, and here I am referring to Article 167(1). The Constitution. This member of the Constitution, with its content, and also in part indeterminate, points to legal uncertainty in the conclusion of international agreements with our country with other countries and this amendment, with this text - states that the law confirmed by the international treaty is not in agreement with the Constitution, is an attempt to ease such an anomaly of the Constitution. Therefore, according to the reasons that I have given, I demand that our amendments be reconsidered and, in order to improve the lack of text of the Constitutional Court Bill, be adopted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10875	I thank MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, especially for the economics of time. Article 42, Article 44, Article 45, Ms Milena Stankovic, and Article 45 - Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic, right? You've explained these four now, at the same time. Okay. This amendment is referred to by MP Dusan Bajatovic to Article 42.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10876	Mr. Chairman, I'm also not gonna be long, but I'd like to ask you if I had the same fund of time as... Because I want to support my colleagues in some things. I think too much has been left to decide in the Rules of Procedure. One of the better proposals is these amendments to Article 44 and Article 42. Namely, if in the Court of Justice, which has three teams, one is a court, and the other two are party or party, and the Court numbers a total of 15 judges, some seven judges, or wants to discuss something by emergency procedure, then I guess it would be logical not to leave it to a majority in the Constitutional Court, but to be precise by law. Unfortunately, many things, which, perhaps, should not be put into law like this, nor should we have any objection to them, are suspicious, for the simple reason that practice shows that many things that are normal legal norms in stable or politically stable societies in us have been very often problematic in practice. I think it's a very good idea to get rid of the particulars by law that if seven judges, of 15, require a session, and five wants to support some part of the agenda, that it should be discussed. I really don't like that, I repeat, of 15 judges, practically three teams will be formed. One court and two parties, one or the other. Furthermore, what would be convenient to think about is that this amendment submitted by MPs Stankovic, Maras and Rangelovic supports and that it is not a matter of the Rules of Procedure, but a matter of legal obligation. It makes sense, for the simple reason that the role of the Constitutional Court in Serbia's state system, as set by the current constitution, is very large. I'll explain on the case relating to article 45 why I think so. Furthermore, the amendment that has been filed here under number 32, that is, the amendment to Article 44, says - judges may, with a decision, attach their own separate opinion which represents its component. The government does not accept the amendment, as the solution to the proposed amendment is not a place in Article 44. The bill also dared to move forward, so it says – we also stand on the view that the Constitutional Court judges, after the vote and after the vote, should not attach a separate opinion on the Constitutional Court's decision. I don't think this is a good thing for Serbia's legal practice, as I think the lack of it, which, for this session, on Amendment 42, the LDP gentlemen have not proposed and some deadline of, say, 60 days in which it has to be on the agenda. I think the amendment to Article 44 should leave the possibility for judges to apply their own opinion. Why? For our future practice, it is very important to even publish on the website of the Constitutional Court, or whatever you want, any verdict, not just a separate opinion, but any verdict. Why? Because we are, in fact, entering into the establishment of a new constitutional practice, especially in the field of human rights. We have some institutes that are completely new in Serbia's legal system, not to mention them all, so a new practice will be established to deal with the Constitutional Court. I think that opinions have just been set aside, and I am sure, because of the way the Court is formed, that such separate opinions will be very, very important for this new legal practice. For MPs who are not lawyers to play great lawyers here, it is important, precisely because of the public who, in a scientific way, relys on law, deals with the anomalies produced by the Constitution or the individual law, that all judgments, conclusions or reports be made public. I think the same should apply to all criminal acts in Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, every court record should be delivered to the public for public insight. Maybe you, pal, disagree with me that it can be in that sense, but let the public decide, we don't have to decide. Well, of course you'll decide at this point, your force is 126 MPs, not legal norms. You can't live off this Milivojevic. I'm kidding. Furthermore, in Article 45, I would like to say, in particular, in point 1: 'The Constitutional Court finds by order that the law, the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government and the other general act is not in agreement with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and approved international agreements, or that it was not in agreement with the Constitution at the time of validity'. The amendment, which reads as follows: "It determines that the statute of the autonomous province or the unit of local self-government or other general act was contrary to the law, i.e. at the time of validity it was contrary to the law". You know what, I know you didn't, but in order not to report back to the economy of time, I think there's been a serious systemic error in some other laws. It refers to the fact that an act or some of the acts adopted by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly, which has some new powers, in a strange way arranged, must be delivered to the Government within 12 hours, or 24 hours, does not matter, and therefore the corresponding ministry forwards this to the Constitutional Court for a decision. I think there's been a serious mistake in the earlier law. So, not in the Constitutional Court Act, but in the State Administration Act, where one such possibility is given. Why? There is no two-stage decision-making, what the Duchy of Vojvodina brings must go immediately to the Constitutional Court. In serious countries, when a region makes a decision, it should either have a super audit or a governor, or a ministry, or a government, or a assembly, there are different forms, so if, for example, the assembly or the government refuses, or the competent ministry, then it returns to the region's assembly, so it should, for example, With a two-thirds majority, it will be re-admissioned and only then will it go to the Constitutional Court. I think there's been a serious problem here. So, in this case, we are in the decision-making process for some of the acts taken by the Autonomous Region Assembly of Vojvodina, and we are going directly to the Constitutional Court, and here, in the Constitutional Law, we do not see in which deadlines, in which way, at which rate, God would be given not to the Separatist acts, because we are institutionalised in Vojvodina, first of all, in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the image and the work of the president of the assembly, decided that the Government with such, possibly, problems would come to an end. So this problem was not left to the government or the Assembly, but left to the Constitutional Court. I think there's, therefore, earlier, not this law, made one big mistake. Therefore, I believe that the number of amendments should be supported, because they represent a certain quality and guarantee in the work of the Constitutional Court, rather than leave it to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10877	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic, Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milena Stankovic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10878	This is what Mr. Bajatovic commented in advance, i.e. he gave us creamworth. First of all, I would quote Article 45(1) of the Constitutional Court Act, which states: "The Constitutional Court finds that the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government or other general act is not in accordance with the law, or that it was not in accordance with the law at the time of validity". The MPs of the LDP, namely the three of us, have submitted an amendment to this article and it is our proposal that Article 45 paragraph 1 point 4 is changed and reads as follows: "The Constitutional Court finds that the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government or other general act is contrary to the law, i.e. at the time of validity was contrary to the law". This is our attempt to make one, according to us, a controversial provision, or dangerous in its width, when it says that one act, i.e. the highest act, say, autonomous province or local self-government, is not in agreement with some law, to fix, i.e.. that this word "agreement" is renamed and that it's "not contrary." Because if it is not in agreement, it is a very broad provision, a very wide range has that word and it is really possible that sometimes the statute of the autonomous province is contrary to some law that has nothing to do with the statute and that before the Constitutional Court, in the process, it is declared to be something unconstitutional. That is the essence of this amendment that we have submitted. I only wanted one more thing, if possible, Minister Petrovic to say. My colleague, Rangelovic, had just quoted how many amendments were tabled by MPs, all amendments were submitted by opposition MPs - 81. It's accepted six. Indeed, those six accepted are, above all, of a technical nature. You are here to witness today that with a certain number of amendments the MPs of one, the other, the third party, the opposition. Even some amendments were submitted in the same text, without any co-operation or agreement. Indeed, I think you should think carefully about accepting certain amendments anyway, because they essentially improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10879	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. Does any of the MPs want to talk about these four amendments? (No) Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10880	Article 45 is one of the most important members of this law, because, among other things, it prescribes what the Constitutional Court will do with its decision. If we had this law back a year, a year and a half, many things would have been overcome or pre-warned, so that there wouldn't have been many disagreements, many irregularities, many violations of the Constitution, many things, from units of local self-government, to the top of the state, which caused damage. Let's get in line. It is said: "The Constitutional Court finds that the law, the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government and the other general act is not in agreement with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and the approved international agreements, or that it was not in agreement with the Constitution at the time of validity". If we had the Constitutional Court and had had this point of this member of the law, it could not have happened that the international agreements, which were heavy on this country, were financially heavy, would have been concluded with some phantom companies. So Baby's grandmother at a train station in Vienna opened a company and won a concession for a part of Belgrade-Novi Sad highway to build it and charge for the road. It happened that for three years they were charging for the road, and the holes in that part of the highway weren't patched up and it happened that no one was responsible after that. It is said, in point 2) – The Court finds that the law which has been passed, which has not been declared, is not in agreement with the Constitution. Do we have laws that have been passed in this congregation without being declared an indication that they were not in agreement with the Constitution? Suppression implies that all laws under the Constitution must be in accordance with the Constitution, if they are not - do not change the Constitution, but change those laws. The Constitution is a framework through which all laws must pass. Anything that doesn't pass doesn't match and it has to change. Point 3: 'Determining that the confirmed international contract is not in agreement with the Constitution'. How many international contracts do we have that are not in agreement with the Constitution or that they are at the expense of this state? International, or under quotes, as you said in a transparent manner, 'International Contracts', that is, contracts that some foreign companies, whose owners are just domestic tycoons, or bearers of the 'buldozer' revolution, or couples carriers from Cyprus to the Sea and various other islands, are now returning that money through very harmful, harmful contracts to this country. We are witnessing the burazer privatisation, where in many companies that money, in a very bad, legally regulated way, they entered the country, and these companies went into someone's hands. Point 5: ‘Determining that the collective contract is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Law’ and point 6: ‘Determining the way the consequences resulting from the application of a general act which does not comply with the Constitution or the law’. Here we come to the situation that in certain local self-governments where temporary measures have been imposed, they last for a year, although the law regulates that it cannot be longer than three months. Here, you've had Smedervo for over a year in that status. In no local self-government where provisional measures were imposed by the act of the minister, more specifically, by the will of the minister of 'against' local self-government, he was Milan Markovic or someone before him, however, until today, it was not established that the act was not in accordance with the Constitution. The reason is very simple - it should remain in power, but not in the capacity of people chosen from citizens, but in the capacity of some forced administration. According to point 10 of this Article, ‘He decides to appeal to the authority of the Autonomous Province, i.e. the unit of local self-government in the process if, by means of an individual act or action by a state body or body of a unit of local self-government, he makes it impossible to exercise the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, i.e. a unit of local self-government’. The freshest example is exactly the example of Ruma. The minister wrote a love letter that had no title, no beginning, no end, which he attributed to his opinion in the letter. However, that letter is very illiterately written, I read it. It doesn't matter, but there's nothing legal about it, because the yellow coalition in Ruma, it seems, behold, miracles, liked it this way to take power, to hold elections in Ruma, because elections for local self-government are coming up. Thanks to this act, we today have a normal, legal, legitimate government in Ruma and we have some who complain that it does not allow them to hold a session, make decisions and rule. Well, there can't be two bodies, there can only be one, because one is a chair. If we had a Constitutional Court, he would have declared the written minister unconstitutional, as he is, illegal, as he is, and it would have gone to the asylum, and these people would at least have no hope that they were in power, but, as a constructive opposition, would still help to rule in Ruma. However, there was a similar attempt in Old Paz, but there was deafening about this unconstitutional, illegal act. It would be wise for you to come out, if you had something to say, and speak from this voice. Don't throw it away, don't act normal, just come out for a pay phone and tell me what you got. We reach point 14) to which Mr Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment. It is said to reject a proposal to determine unconstitutional and illegality. Mr Zoran Krasic, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Club, believes that the words "unconstitutional and illegality" should be deleted, i.e. replaced by the words "is not in agreement with the Constitution and the law". You know, you lawyers, I'm not a lawyer, I'm some other college graduate, you're strictly taking care of the justification of the words you apply. So the words 'unconstitutional and illegality' are more of a jargon character, and the Constitutional Court finds that some general act is in accordance with the law, not that it is illegal, that it is in agreement with the Constitution, not that it is unconstitutional. That is why this should be changed and it seems to me that point 14), following the change of this part, following the adoption of the amendment by Zoran Krasic, would be much clearer, and the law would be easier to read and apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10881	I thank MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Thank you. Mr. Batic, we just passed your amendment. You weren't here. Do you want to talk now? (Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure) Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10882	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will ask for an explanation from the Honorable Mr. Minister. I'm quite indisposed, rescinded and demoralized, disappointed about not accepting the amendment. It may be pretentious to expect that all the amendments, or most of the amendments, will be accepted, but when you make an effort and write 20 amendments, of which at least 10 are absolutely rational, so rational arguments don't give any result, then ask yourself a question - what a vain effort and what an attempt to prove by some rational argument the foundation of a leg that you tried to make to the amendments. Since that's not the case, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask for an explanation from the Honorable Mr. Minister. It's something that caused controversy and dilemmas in the general public. Since you have connections with this subject, I support and welcome your initiative - regarding the Pahomia case. Your initiative is justified to initiate a procedure for the resolution of some of the judges who participated in the case. A news agency was released yesterday that the president, then president, did not know if today, the Municipal Court in Vranja, Mrs Snezana Janjic, said she had a visit to the V.D. President or President of the Supreme Court, presently, Mrs. Vidi Petrovic Škero, who told her that from the highest place there are complaints about the work of the Municipal Court in Vranj, that these complaints refer to the subject of the bishop Pahomija (quote only the agency news, I do not claim anything), and that these complaints have reached the prime minister, Mr. Kostunica. Mrs. Snezana Janjic, president of the Vranj municipality court, also accused then of Mr. Stojkovic's justice minister. We know how the Pahome case ended. I've already said hello to your initiative on this occasion. I'm not an optimist. That's what I said about the outcome of all the initiatives, because crow crows don't take their eyes out, as our people would say, but you did what you can do. However, I would ask you, in the context of this story, to check these allegations, because these allegations are very delicate. They were issued by the President of the Municipality Court in Vranj, and they can indicate that some proceedings are taking place in this country, which conducts justice, or has been conducted by the judiciary. So I don't have any illusions as far as you're concerned, I'm simply asking you for an explanation. Because it came to pass, someone was talking – an unskilled explanation of the Supreme Court's spokesman that Mrs. Vida Petrovic was not the President of the Supreme Court at the time, but was V.D. The President of the Court, and that she visited Vranje, allegedly, not in November, but in another month. Not to convince anyone who said anything. The whole story is indicative, and the public needs to be informed about all the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10883	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Batic. We're moving on to Article 46. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice Committee is now proposing that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Krasic has proposed an amendment to item 46 of item 3 so that after the word "execution" the word "concrete" is added. The government has not accepted this amendment, with the following explanation - the government does not accept the amendment because it is of the opinion that the solution can be suspended by a number of individual acts, not just one specific, concrete act. Mr. Minister, the government obviously didn't understand the intensity of this amendment. It's not about how many acts can be suspended, it's about the fact that the act has to be brought in. In fact, we had practice, a few years ago, that the Constitutional Court had suspended all individual acts brought before the UN tribunal in connection with the Law on the Assistance of Persons charged with the Hague tribunal. This law is not formally put out of force, i.e. it is not declared unconstitutional. The procedure, formally, has been under way for four years, but the Constitutional Court, then, has reached a solution and suspended the execution of any possible individual act that will be brought under that law. We in the SRS believe that such practice is very harmful and that it needs to be abolished. National MP Zoran Krasic wanted to point out with his amendment that the Constitutional Court could suspend only the individual act that was brought in and which physically exists, and not that the Constitutional Court was given general authority to suspend the execution and some, possibly, individual acts adopted in connection with the law of which the constitutionality is being examined. We have had a very bad example with the Law on the Assistance of Persons indicted before The Hague tribunal. To date, the Constitutional Court has not put the law out of force, the procedure is still under way, but the Constitutional Court has given itself the right to, and before it has made a final decision on the constitutionality of that law to suspend all future individual acts that will be brought under that law without these individual acts being truly nidonated. We wanted to abolish this practice with this amendment and it is practically the meaning of the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Therefore, the word – concrete, does not refer to the number of individual acts, but refers to the fact that an individual act must be brought, and the right to the Constitutional Court to a priority, in advance, suspend the enforcement of individual acts which can only be passed on account of a law whose constitutionality is being examined but which has not yet been passed. Speaking of which, I appeal to the future constitutional court, which is likely to be established by the ruling majority's will, to make a final decision on whether the Law on the Assistance of Persons indicted before The Hague tribunal is indeed unconstitutional or not. We in the SRS believe that this law is not unconstitutional, that it is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the principles of this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10885	Thank you. Is anyone answering for the amendment? (No) Members of the 46th Amendment were submitted by MP Jorganka Tabakovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10886	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, for you a direct question. Did you participate in writing explanations regarding the amendments submitted? If so, then let Serbian citizens hear that the previous amendment, Mr Krasic, included this, as well as the amendment that I have submitted to Article 46(5), which is proposed, instead of 'not accepting the initiative to initiate proceedings for the establishment of unconstitutional or illegality', the text 'does not accept an initiative to launch a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality'. You refuse the amendment, with an explanation that the terms 'unconstitution' and 'lawlessness' are legal. Dear citizens of Serbia, the next chapter of this law bears exactly the terms I am asking for amendments to be corrected, and it says - The procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of general acts. It was used exclusively for the terminology you used in the law itself, for the implementation of a single thread, consistency in the text itself. I'm not surprised by the rejection, I'm not surprised by the argument, what I'm worried about is that you are passing a law on the Constitutional Court, the most important among the authorities and institutions in all countries, using it as a reason to introduce yourself to the citizens as a government of good intentions. Following in width, yes, for example, you are expanding the range of promoters or those who submit the initiative. How? We keep a wide circle of those who can do it. For example, France, an old and serious democratic state, has in its practice that such an initiative can only be submitted by elected persons, 60 MPs, Parliament Speaker and Senate president. With us, it can be any legal or physical person, or whatever you say, unfortunately, anyone. We have practice in this law to assess the laws and the priorities and the aposteurs, and after their declaration, and before their entry into force, and all of these are the good parts of this law. However, if Article 7 states that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, general, and if that importance is given to this authority, that I call it conditionally, so that you can explain to me and the citizens of Serbia that we receive 15th and 16th November, respectively, from the Government, whose member you are, the draft budget law, and you were obliged to deliver it to us on 1st November? This book, which we all stick to, says that the National Assembly, article 99, paragraph 11, is obliged to make a budget. How can I, as an MP, and this assembly, accept responsibility for the untimely adoption of the budget if the Government does not deliver me within the legal deadline of the budget? You're wondering now, what does that have to do with the Constitutional Court? There is. The budget system law, which provides for deadlines, provides for sanctions only for bodies lower than the government, the republican authorities and local self-government if they do not provide data for budget building within the deadline. The government does not provide for itself any punishment and sanctions for it. Why should we and the Constitutional Court, with such well-conceived solutions, if I have no one, as an MP of the SRS, to submit an initiative to assess such a law of exceptional weight? Why extraordinary weights? At the moment you present yourselves as people of good intentions with this law, you publish us, in the government's voice, on November 2, is the date, the Decision on the emissions of the state records of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is broadcasting state records to refinance. I'm a master of economics, but many economists and people of the profession, doctors of science, don't understand what refinance means. Of what? Why? You have a irregular inflow in your budget, and you boast of the surplus, or some internal debt, old foreign savings. Why are 800 million dinars being broadcast by one decision alone? How's it going to sell? What are they being broadcast for? What's called broadcasting, this is borrowing. In the definition of the Bill on the Budgetary System, in Article 2, it is nicely called – borrowing due to current liquidity. Now you're wondering what this has to do with the Constitutional Court. The government in which you, Mr Petrovic, minister of justice, are in the preamble to this decision is referred to the Law on Public Debt Article 43(1). The Public Debt Act, Article 43, which speaks of powers, you know what it says – the government of the Republic of Serbia decides to broadcast long-term state charters of value. Do you know the deadline for this decision? The maturity of these records is three months. They're so long-term, they're in effect for three months. We don't know what this decision is about, it's one of many. For the budget debate, I'm going to go out with the final number and I'm going to add up all the decisions, but this one from November 2nd is pretty tough. For what does the Government publish a decision on state record emissions? Will they sell them through the National Bank, in those tail operations, for 370m euros of missing funds in the last year? Now the most amazing thing, at that same time, Mr Djelic, when you pursue the budget, calls Jelasic and threatens him - why he does not repay the debts. These are the debts of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of debts does the National Bank have to budget? It is amazing that for several years there is no Constitutional Court, but many things do not have to be resolved by the Constitutional Court, for example. This is about literacy. It gives you the right to the Public Debt Act and to publish short-term securities of value, print, broadcast, sell in a regulated manner. But you have to write for what purpose. It has to be written for what purpose it increases the debt of all of us in the name of the government, for which it is done. In order for me, as a responsible MP, to react to these things, simply, I have to have a public law, a decision like this, because I don't say otherwise, but we also have to have a Constitutional Court, in which what are good solutions, as a letter on paper, must become our reality. It does not matter whether, by the letter of the Constitutional Court and by its decisions, they bear the responsibility of any name or man, any member of the party. It is really very important that we be right as a state in passing such a law, by proving our seriousness to the world, by having a court that is ready, powerful, powerful to decide on a future that is called respect for the law. It's not right for the power of 128 votes, as many as you have, to reject any argument. It is really not right that, at a time when I am speaking from the aspect of the matter that I am ruling, which is economics, we have a finance minister who, at the remarks of the NGO -- that political parties who participate in public life and have representatives in Parliament have been paid more in the previous year, he said, by someone's failure or error. Guys, this isn't a fun place. Article 26. The law on the budget system says, "It cannot be given to anyone from the budget without being taken away." We've been ruling this law for a few years. Every amendment submitted, each plus any user, must mean minus someone else. So it couldn't have been a mistake or a slip. So it's someone's intention or someone's ignorance. The settlement of relations between coalition partners, the former finance minister and the current, then-Mr Dinkic and current Cvetkovic must not be broken over the back of parliamentaryism. It's not about the party that's the most numerous or the smallest. Consciously and orchestrated impact on Parliament's integrity, false information on their incomes, on the privileges they have, is very well implemented through the Budget Law, through the Constitutional Court and through the adoption of a new budget law. I give you just a few examples where you have to realize that respect for the law is a matter of respect for the Constitution and the authority that is responsible for carrying out it, not anyone's will, no one's mood, no one's morality, but it is very dependent on personal morality. We must create a society that does not depend on personal will, whether someone respects this book, which is the Bible for a society called Serbia, and has to be the Bible for society. I belong to a party who has a law, and when she doesn't like it, she respects it, until she submits an initiative to change it. That must be how every citizen of Serbia behaves, and you must give him preconditions for it. You must warn your ministers, as a colleague who is obliged to warn them, to work on the papers for which you are responsible, in terms of legal basis, that they cannot be superseded, set up each other's jobs or take away each other's jobs through the Budget Law, through the Law on the financing of political parties, through the Constitutional Court Act and every one that applies here. The last proof of that is the adoption of the Insurance Act, in which you allowed that, past Article 35(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, employees of the National Bank, who are working in control of insurance companies, is not responsible for the damage done, but for the injured, the third party, to prove extreme negligence or negligence of those employees. You are justified by the specific nature of the National Bank. One of the first laws that would have to fall in the Constitutional Court, which was passed in your term, is the Insurance Act. We tried to amend that provision by amendment, but 128 of them were stronger. The way you inform citizens about it is very indicative. In the second round of elections for the president of Slovenia, the news missed that the citizens of Slovenia pleaded in a referendum on the future of insurance companies, in the sense that Triglav should remain state or privatise itself. Neither B92 nor any of the other independents, or anyone dependent on, informed that the referendum had failed and that Triglav remains state. He does not care so much about the citizens of Serbia, by selectively telling them the news and by looking at ourselves worse than we do, and in case we have a chance to pass a good law. I really think it would be very correct for you to respect the arguments held by the SRS, to the extent that we are correcting the law that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10887	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10888	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I remain with my amendment, he is in line with the amendment to Article 44. I don't think the Constitutional Court should draw any conclusions. I've given an adequate explanation for that amendment. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. I'd take this opportunity for something that doesn't have a direct connection. I won't take more than three, four minutes. I've been expecting the President of Parliament to appear here all day, but the president of the assembly obviously has a lot more to do than chair the assembly. What exactly is this about? A session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee was held last night. The topic of the committee's session was a statement by the Committee on Local and Parliamentary Elections in Kosovo and Metohija on Sunday. The Committee session is scheduled hours before the start of electoral silence in Kosovo and Metohija. I answered the words and said - to send any message to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, it is perfectly logical, in the whole atmosphere, that you can hardly tell them, regardless of which party or party you belong, that they participate in the elections, because there is no minimum of conditions. But I also spoke of the responsibility of the negotiating team, which, according to the resolution adopted by this high house, was obliged to report to the National Assembly on everything that is related to the future and future status of Kosovo and Metohija. There were several negotiating sessions -- in Vienna, Brussels, a negotiating troika document at 14 points, a hint of a new project on Kosovo's neutrality. Our subtle proposal is for Kosovo to settle in Hong Kong's role, and I said it was irresponsible because it was supposed to be discussed here. If indeed Kosovo is the pupil of the eye, the bottom of the eye, the cradle, the roots, then the Assembly should only be in constant session with the topic. I said the story and the parallel with Hong Kong is inconclusive. Both in Hong Kong and China, the Chinese live, and unfortunately not only Serbs live in Kosovo, they are in a significant minority. About Hong Kong, all agreed, no one can agree on Kosovo. May I have your attention, please? I told those who promise at the top of the government, first of all, the prime minister of this country, if, God forbid, Kosovo becomes independent and it is recognised by the greatest, or most significant part of the international community, that further political career means resignation, means home, no more lamentation – Kosovo will forever be ours, in memories, thoughts and hearts, that this is insecure, irresponsibleness. We don't know anything here. No one here explains to us what this is all about and what it's all about. I said, too, that it was an appointment session a few hours, or a few days before the election, completely unserious, that it was a colorful lie, that it was a smoke screen. To God, we send a message to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I also said, what is particularly important and, if you will, dramaticly, about the conflict or fears of Serbs against Serbs, the chiefs, coordinators, people at the head of some of our authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, who turned into corruption, into crime, into nepotism. I said last night, we're witnesses that open roads that don't lead anywhere, but that lead to the smuggling of alcohol, tobacco and drugs. There's an illegal border crossing, and I showed these photos how it's done. (shows photos) Forwards goes the buffer, and behind it trucks without registration plates, so is the work of Kosovo and Metohija, without tender, without government decision, without decision of the Road Directorate, etc. If I was right, he's telling us today's report on the smuggling charge. In a gunfight between two Kosovo-supervised criminal groups yesterday morning, in the town of Bunjak, near Zubino Potok, Mirko Patric, 29 years old, was killed from Kosovo's Mitrovica. Both criminal groups are Serbs, unfortunately. It is their patrons who exercise power, so we get hundreds of letters from Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who say: protect us from Serbs, we will not and cannot be worse under Albanians than under ours. The second time, it is also illegally built, there is no tender, and those who perform the works, it is one company that has a monopoly there and is owned by a man who is also headed by a government institution, a local government, and local authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. Buildings are made in the Bosniak border without a tender, neither is anyone making them, nor is he making them. The apartments of the Faculty of Arts are being hijacked. Evil is in Kosovo and Metohija. Now we're talking about the province and parliamentary elections. I didn't ask this for the first time. I asked the minister to answer these questions, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Yesterday at the committee session, there was no one from the ministry, none of the dozens of his advisors. They play computer games. They don't even know where Kosovo is, but they are advisers to the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. More than 70 advisors. Then no wonder they're protesting employees in the judiciary. How much does your counselors have to pay? We were, some of us, ministers, so I didn't have any advisors. What do the counselors mean? You have your attitude, several assistants for some areas. They reproduce like amoebes. Last night, of course, there was no one. I didn't mention any party, no name. This bothered the president, and here are some colleagues who attended, distracting the president of the Committee, who said I was trying to challenge the incident again. Why? Because I'm trying to tell the truth. Like, I missed the theme. Anyone who says otherwise is slandering and lying. There is a wonderful government – coordinator, chief, director of hospitals, health homes, etc. There's something else that bothers me that I mentioned. Is it true that from the Kosovo budget, these Serbs, patriots, who dive crocodile tears, make huge apartments and houses in both the Kingdom and Belgrade, drive the most modern jeeps, suffer and care for Kosovo? So, I asked, did they receive money from the Kosovo and Metohija budget, from those hateful Albanians, or from Shipara, what do they call them? He has a UNMIK report on it, to the last penny, to the last euro, to the last cent. I'm saying, I didn't mention any parties, no names, but apparently someone is. What I was saying bothered one man, I guess, angry and the president of the Committee, from his party, who didn't take my word from me, because how can I speak something that's not given the subject; there's no free composition, just the homework you got, I'm spoiling the idyll. I must say that colleagues from most other parties also talked about what is or is not working in Kosovo and Metohija. We need to see the whole framework, so let's talk about any choices. So it bothered that same man who last time on that board, and last night, he mentioned the Roma again. To him, Rome is the greatest insult. When you have no arguments, you go into disqualification. He said I was Roma again. I don't mind that. I'm not Roma, and even if I were, I'd be proud of it, because people don't know each other, they don't measure, they don't measure, they don't value skin color, they're half-half-breed, they're proud, they're honest, they're honest, they're honest, they're safe, they're responsible, they're brave and they're behind their words. That's why I wanted to ask the President of Parliament to stand in the way of it once and again to apologize to the citizens of Roma nationality. Apparently, according to the standards of some, unfortunately, MPs, unfortunately, members of the Negotiating Team, they have a parameter and a notion of something bad, for something ugly, for something unworthy, for something speculative, for something demeaning. Even, I'm not one of these smugglers' names, and I've got all the names I mentioned, so I don't want to break that idyllic about Kosovo and Metohija too much. In the end, that same man said he was joking, that he loved me, that I was the vice president of his party for five years. My answer is - only you're kidding, the topic is Kosovo and Metohija, as you care about it, so will we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10889	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament MP Zvonko Stević, then on the amendment, MP Dusan Bajatovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. I want to say, since I am one of the participants of the Committee's session that was held yesterday, and the elections are scheduled for tomorrow, that it is a good thing that unity and agreement have been reached in the Committee so that Serbs do not go to elections. I spoke on Monday and Wednesday, and even now, since the arrival of international troops in Kosovo and Metohija, the SPS has been about not going to the elections, because conditions have not been created. What has proved to be evident is that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is not functioning. It doesn't work, first of all, in the interest of the citizens. Next, it is really strange of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, of this government and the authorities, to have problems here for months, to ask questions without the answers being received. It is truly strange that, after eight years, what is problematic, we are talking about the consequences here, democratic authority and democratic option has no organisation in Kosovo and Metohija, no control and no responsibility. It is simply incomprehensible who finance the functioning of a system of education, health care, local self-government, whose co-ordinators are the district's chiefs, whose directors are public enterprises and public institutions, and which are financed from this budget. Why isn't he in control? Why is there no single database for eight years, that the state of Serbia knows what it finances, who it finances and how much it finances in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? We spoke as SPS representatives that there are numerous injustices, of the minimum of 17,000 people working in the economy – 4,600, of the number of families having six times 200%, and of some families in Kosovo and Metohija having two minimals, or without receiving. Why doesn't he sit down and why does the government, apart from verbalism, not solve it? It's obvious someone doesn't respond. Please, I reacted yesterday, and today I am responding, not everything is criminalized in Kosovo and Metohija. Now it turns out that the whole nation is like that in Kosovo and Metohija. Who defends the authorities to establish these individuals who do abuse and say, by name and last name, who are these people? That is why these days, as the SPS, we have asked for a session on Kosovo and Metohija to be held on the ongoing negotiations. Our request has not been accepted. Many times I've asked, and now I'm asking, that's a fundamental question, since the permanent pressure, since it's obvious that Serbia's destabilising is being destabilized, starting with this situation with retarded children, starting with this situation in Novi Pazar, starts with a threat to the south, starts with a constant threat in Kosovo and Metohija, in Mitrovica, the school was attacked yesterday – what will the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after 10 December, take over politics, economics, diplomacy, especially in the area of security? Shall we wait until we experience March 17th, the official authorities tell us that they did not know how they were found without talking about the mass sale of properties in Kosovo and Metohija? If there are no Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, there are no negotiations and madness is our policy, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10891	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10892	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, just one correction to the conclusion of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. The conclusion was to invite all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija not to go to the polls. That was the conclusion, therefore, not only for Serbs, but for all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10893	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10894	As for Article 48, it is good that the Constitutional Court draws conclusions, so in line with the subject raised by the applicant for the amendment, Mr Batic, I will continue. So, the SPS parliamentary group asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if you will, and the parliamentary majority, and the Negotiating Team, to come to this room. There doesn't have to be a direct transmission, we don't have to go up, we don't need to be up there, we don't have to go up around Kosovo and Metohija -- who's a bigger patriot, because without Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, everything's groundless, the whole story, unless they're left living in Kosovo and Metohija, it's groundless. We can talk about wealth, this, this, what, the soul, whatever you want, eyes and stuff. What constantly pisses me off here, although Mr Batic is right about many things, as Mr. Stevic is right, and I will not say the parties on purpose, is that there are anomalies there, that some things have gone wrong, that things don't work the way the government of the Republic of Serbia has promoted or demanded. I'm sorry, that's true. As many robberies as there are there, we will find it difficult to determine, because there are no official state bodies there, but that we should respect the government's intention to help these people as much as possible, that's the fact. The problem is whether the system works, and the sooner it will be that the people who are there are better known to the occasion, they say, by the ruling coalition, it seems, only people, so they're prone to this and that. Perhaps the established system, which the government of the Republic of Serbia would like to have in Kosovo, does not work because of people. Well, Zvonko said not to turn out, based on this presentation by Mr Batic, that all Serbs in Kosovo are a criminalised structure. No, they're not. They are now prisoners of international politics, some will say international conspiracies, and for God's sake, we may not treat them in a completely adequate way. I don't mind that we're building a road in Kosovo and Metohija, maybe it can't be done with the help of the tender, because there's some international community, it doesn't have to say everything, but what we would need is to stop collecting day-to-day points for this speaker on the Kosovo and Metohija problem, to ask for one serious prepared, politically-founded debate on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and to understand, when we're already talking about the Constitution here, even if it's the Constitutional Court, that we've changed our oath to be state officials, that Kosovo, by the Constitution of Serbia, is an inalienable part of Serbia, that we intend to fight in the negotiations and in any way be winners, in any way, not to be losers about Kosovo and Metohija, which requires a serious debate. We Socialists don't mind, we don't care about daily-political points, because it doesn't make sense that those who are for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, in one way or another, sometimes come out for a pay phone, so they teach lessons about Kosovo and Metohija. Let it be a closed session, let the negotiating team come, let the president and prime minister come to this room, in the course of one or two days, as far as it deserves, to discuss it. Please, at this point, there is a unity between the executive government and, I am sure, the vast majority in this House about the idea, or the political recommendation based, at least on me, on the well-measured political situation in Kosovo, respecting the international factor, that Serbs, and it is good to say citizens, because there are also threatened members of other ethnic communities, should not go out in these and these elections. Please, there is no need to produce fog or communication show about it. How do you help these people? It is a question of which we, as MPs, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and appointed officials, need to take care. So, don't use this pay phone for day-to-day political promotion, and, on the other hand, if we talk about what was on the Committee, then it would be good for those who were in the session, first of all, the chairman of that committee, if it's so urgent, to come out and have an official reporter here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10895	The reply was requested by MP Vladan Batic. Let Zdravko Topalovic, who is the applicant of the next amendment, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10896	Mr. Chairman, perhaps Mr. Bajatovic misunderstood my words, there is no dilemma about participation in the elections. So, I said that, as DHSS MP, I also believe that Serbs in such an atmosphere and these conditions, in this way, should not participate in the province and local elections. I didn't say last night that, God forbid, you should throw away the anthem, lie and satanize all Serbs as involved in crime. No, I've apostrophed some people who exercise power. They got out of control, like you said, became boastful. It wasn't my intention to say it last night, or today, but I'm just, I'm hurt when you're making arguments, because no one's responding, the answer's been gone for months. I told you about this smuggling for the first time a month and a half ago, and nothing, it doesn't matter. I've pointed out various irregularities and things like that. Kosovo can't be someone's mother, it can't be someone's stepmom. Some, who drill into patriotic breasts and shed crocodile tears, cannot profit from the misfortunes of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Neither the Government nor the Negotiating Team can hide and we, as MPs, know from the newspapers what's going on there. I guess this is where the debate should be held, including the elections, which were not called yesterday, only yesterday was the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, but it was known for six months when parliamentary and local elections will be held. This is a theme for Parliament. There's no one from the ministry, there's no one from the Coordination Centre, like, there's a meeting of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to share some pucks and lessons. That's my appeal. It's nothing controversial, I have no intention of competing, but some of our biographies, some of our pawns, some of our advocates, continued in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, will give the best answer and testimony in front of our descendants, in front of the people and in front of history about what they said, what they did and what they stood for, and what they were after. Therefore, we must establish responsibility. As far as responsibility is concerned, I forgot my distinguished colleague to ask, I hope I get an answer from you, and I absolutely support you in your proposal to separate the wheat from the weeds in the judiciary. I mentioned what the President of the Municipal Court said in Vranje for Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Škero, who is today the President of the Supreme Court, so my question – did Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Škero make a decision, or, if it isn't, that the case for the trial of the Prime Minister Pahomija should be removed from Vranja and moved to Nis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10897	The amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic to article 49. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10898	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act. Mr. Minister, there is no reason for decisions not to be announced by constitutional appeal in "the Official Messenger". According to its character, constitutional appeal is something that should allow citizens to appear as the last instance, not that citizens, just because they are not informed, appear to the European Court of Human Rights. So every constitutional appeal becomes a public matter, and if, by any chance, there is a question that affects privacy, then the non-publishment is legal and in accordance with the other law, and Article 49. The bill does not pose any interference. On the grounds of the constitutional appeal, decisions on essential human rights and such complaints, i.e. decisions, serve as a guideline to other state bodies, in particular, courts and bodies of the administration, in which certain legal matters can be resolved in which a constitutional appeal can be made. That's another reason for making decisions following a constitutional appeal at the Official Messenger. Moreover, the publication of these decisions would greatly raise the authority of the Constitutional Court, which was completely destroyed on October 5th, to date. Finally, the constitutional principle is that the work of the state authorities is public, and the publication of decisions under the constitutional appeal provides the public with the work of the Constitutional Court. I invite you to accept this amendment for another matter. You have advocated, as you say, transparency, the public in the work, and that is why your political option took part in the burning of television. You are witnessing that Serbia is in general media darkness, that HRT, 92, i.e. "B-92" and some other TVs still make amazing lies, and you don't turn them on, even though you've turned on other TVs. It is therefore important that there is a public service of the Constitutional Court as some of the most legal matters in the state. In that case, it would be much easier to monitor the work of other state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10899	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this amendment by fellow Topalovic, unless it is the government, as a legislator, to accept, at least, the MPs can accept, because there are more reasons. In the said Article 49. The bill says that decisions of the Constitutional Court, apart from decisions under the constitutional appeal, are published in the Official Messenger, and then, in some rather modest explanation, the Government says it does not accept the amendment, for the reason it does not consider that it is not complete to publish decisions by constitutional appeal in the "Official Messenger", because the constitutional appeal can be declared against an individual act or action by a state body or organisation, and that it concerns only persons who are denied human or minority law. The one who wrote it was supposed to write - not human or minority, but the Constitution provided for the right. First of all, Mr. Secretary. Now one question is asked - why not publish, why should the Constitutional Court not be obliged to publish this in the Official Messenger? Ever since you came to power, he's taught us that you law and constitution only stick to it when someone makes you do it, only then. Therefore, decisions published by the Constitutional Court, regardless of what the state body is, should become practice, a practice needed by someone in the state administration or someone else to start applying. It should become a practice in the judiciary as well. How do you think it becomes some legal practice and has some consequence, a legal one, that won't only apply to that one case unless it's published in the Official Messenger? So, by creating an obligation for the Constitutional Court to publish this in the Official Messenger, you would also save the Constitutional Court for new requests for interpretations under some constitutional appeal, because every citizen could then only be called, before some competent state authorities, to this and that "Official Messenger" and the interpretation of the Constitutional Court by that and that constitutional appeal, in that and that case. It's no big deal. I see the official messenger's director has a big salary. Perhaps, the Constitutional Court should not pay for this publication in the Official Messenger, but, in any case, if that is why it is not published in the 'Official Messenger', here, we will give out the budget of the Republic of Serbia more funds to the Constitutional Court so that the directors have salaries. In any case, the aim is to make our Constitutional Court work more efficiently, faster, in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of the state. If each individual case requires that each citizen, and it is the same case of violation of the Constitution, address the Constitutional Court, then I really don't know how this Constitutional Court will function and how effective it will be. There are plenty of cases in the Constitutional Court already, because he hasn't worked in a long time. So first, the Constitutional Court will have to resolve, i.e. assesses the constitutionality and legality of some laws passed, and then all those other interpretations and requirements that some persons have already submitted. That is why I believe that since accepting this amendment, except for that small obligation and the cost of publication in the Official Messenger, no one can have any harm, and the benefits may be all, or even the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10901	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. Before I give my word to the People's Parliament to Stupar, I'm afraid the transfer will be completed, just to read this, at the request of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. "At the sixth session, held on 15 November 2007, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, on the basis of Article 59. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the next conclusion unanimously. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has taken a stand calling on all citizens from the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija not to respond to the upcoming province and local elections in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, organised by the interim institutions and the Government of Kosovo. The committee unanimously decided to forward the conclusion of the session to all MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry. President Vladimir Milentijevic. 'Thank you very much. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10902	On the occasion of the amendment to article 49 submitted by SRS MP Zdravko Topalovic, on the basis of an example of the town municipality of Zvezdar, I will show you that the SRS is right when it says that you must publish the decisions in the 'Official Messenger'. What does the Constitutional Court's decision, which was made two years ago, on the initiative of the SRS and the SPS City Municipality of Zvezda, on whether the local self-government elections were conducted according to the Constitution? Two years ago, we got a ruling from the Constitutional Court. The president of the municipality of Milan Popovic from DS, your colleague, did not want to hold the elections at all. So today you can have the decision of the highest authority in the state without obliging anyone to carry out that decision. So we're asking citizens to meet, because if someone complains from the local self-government unit, it can happen that the people have no idea what's going on. We've had a decision of the Constitutional Court for two years, Mr. Minister, and the president of the municipality has no idea how to implement it. What else is wrong with this law? The decision must comply with Article 7 of the basic law. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and must be implemented. There must be a criminal provision, Mr. Minister. If the Constitutional Court's decision is made and someone doesn't implement it, he has to be responsible for it. For three years, the people of Starship have not had a single representative of the SRS in local self-government. That's because you don't respect the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10903	I thank the People's MP Dušan Stupar. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10904	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm using this time to avoid replication. So, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, very short. It is said and written that Parliament loses popularity, loses ratings. This picture, our present, and the number of those present will certainly not contribute to our rating being maintained or repaired. So there are parties, big parties, that don't have any MPs all afternoon. Here, as far as statistics are concerned, an absolute minimum has been reached today at 13 o'clock; as some on-call statistician, from a hobby, I calculated that an absolute minimum was reached today at 13 o'clock -- 25 MPs were present. You can read next Saturday -- as many as 25 MPs, every tenth. This picture, now that there are 30 MPs in the O.R., will certainly not contribute to the increase in our parliament's ratings. My appeal to the President of Parliament and to the Vice-Presidents, that through the president of the parliamentary groups, especially the large, here, the left-hand side, the upper part, our coalition partner, do something. If it's a valid reason, that's another reason. But, generally speaking, it is necessary for Parliament's president, through the heads of parliament, to influence the number of MPs, because it is theoretically possible for only two MPs to participate in the debate. You won't have a chance to replicate, because I'm gonna take another minute. So there are only two MPs, one chairman, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and one MP who will explain the amendment. It's possible, too, but should we experience it and welcome it? I do not think I should say that I appeal on behalf of all parliamentary groups and on behalf of all MPs that the President of Parliament, through the president of the parliamentary groups, influences that only justified cases of absence from the session are tolerated. I repeat, only justified cases of absence from the session are tolerated. By the way, we're going to an even greater decline in our high house rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10905	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Vujadinovic. First, my neighbor, Mr Avramovic, came in. I assume you'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10906	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. So, to Article 226, notice, okay? If we had asked the previous speaker to come out and say this, he wouldn't have come out and said it. So, thank you, sir, but you have to be aware that the representative of the government is only in the room 10. You cannot tell us, Serbian radicals, to warn us of the daily statistics you conduct. Now, here, Milivojevic himself says that he's fine behind you ten; maybe there's twenty of you, I don't see it, but the cards don't show it like that. So, please respect what you just said and, as a request from the SRS, say that to your MP club and your coalition partners at the next joint meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10907	I thank the MP Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to answer to Mr. Vujadinovic after what he said. In time, eight or more years ago, at the time of that regime fought against by Mr Vujadinovic, who was called non-democratic, it took 126 MPs to work in this parliament. So, not for the start of the session, but for the work. At any moment, he had to sit here 126 MPs to work. Democracy has come, and now it doesn't need to start session 126. It takes 84. It's another thing. Today at 13 o'clock, most of the SRS MPs were at the IO session in Zemun, it's our regular meeting, Friday at 12 o'clock, so for these reasons we weren't all here. By the way, we're here the most regular and regular every day, and you're not here and the four of you are from the DS, and there's no one from the DSS, G17 plus, that's your problem, your coalition's problem. That's what you discuss at some coalition meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-16-0.u10909	Thank you to the MPs, I thank Mr Dusan Petrovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who was very correct in commenting on all your proposals. We'll continue the session on Monday, 10 o'clock. I ask the minister and his associate to be present as well.
