ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15057	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before continuing the work, I remind you that the Government, written through 25 December 2007, withdrew from the procedure of the following draft law: the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I would like to inform you that I am postponing the day for voting on the draft law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the 2008 financial plans, which I set for Wednesday, December 26th, 2007, starting at 10.00 p.m. I will set a voting day after the end of the search in detail on the 8th item of the agenda. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads. (specifics) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Radovan Radovanovic and Natasa Jovanovic. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee suggest that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee suggest that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee suggest that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the review of the Bill on the Amendment of the Law on Public Roads, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint a Rules of Procedure on Wednesday, December 26th, 2007, starting at 11.00pm, as a day for voting on points 1 to 3 and from the 8th to 12th of the agenda of the 6th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. [[After break – 11,10 lessons]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to establish a quorum for work. According to Article 86(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2008. (b) National Employment Services, (v) the Republic Health Insurance Office. Before we move on to a decision on the Bill on the Bill of Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. For 131 against five, of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. I find that an integral part of the bill has become: amendments of the Government to Article 1 and to Section 5 of Article 5, amendments submitted jointly by the People's MPs of Nada Kolundzija and Marko Djurisic to Section 1 and Amendment 5, with the correction of MP Srdjan Sajna to Section 5, sections 14 and 19. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, 14 of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(3) and (4). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, there was no vote of 18, of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milena Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 16 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 13a. Article 2 Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 19 of the 145 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 127, 15 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 5. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, 17 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) point 4. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 23 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 2(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 20 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2), point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 19 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2), point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 23, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2), point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 23, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Article. Items 10 and 26 3. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 125, there was no 18 vote, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 128, 19 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 19 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Slobodan Maras submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, there was no vote of 23, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, section 1, 3, 8, 9, 11, 15, 25 and 36, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 128, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 2nd amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 23, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 2, 12, 19 and 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 125, 10 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Vladan Batic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, there was no vote of 23, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of the Third Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 24 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 19 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by Vlado Sekulic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 19 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Milic submitted to Article 5 of the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Jovan Damjanovic submitted to article 5 of the amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, 20 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Nikolic submitted the 3rd amendment to Article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 123, 17 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 123, it was not 13 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Jadranka Vuković to article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, they did not vote 22, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 25 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, there was no vote of 23, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 9, 23. and 43. the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Marton. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 124, 20 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, section 3, 13th and 43rd amendments were submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 14th and 15th amendments were submitted by MP Borka Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 124, 15 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 14th and 17th amendments were submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 123, he did not vote 21, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 15th and 17th amendments were submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 17th and 23rd amendments were submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 122, 17 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd and 23rd amendments were submitted jointly by MPs: Balint Pastor, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 122, 18 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 23 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 8th and 12th amendments were submitted by Amjad Migati. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 25 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 26 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Prokic submitted to article 5 of the 12th amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, there was no vote of 24, of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zvonko Mihajlovic submitted to article 5th of the amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 27 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Slavisa Topalovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 26 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 5, the 12th Amendment was submitted by Otto Kishmarton. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 122, the vote was not 28 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, there were no 28 votes, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Zorica Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, a abstentioned one, not voting 22, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, 35 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the 12th Amendment by Dragan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, he did not vote 31, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by Natas Micic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 123, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic submitted the amendments together to Article 5th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 111, 23 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Elvira Kovac. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 124, he did not vote 21 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted to article 5 by Predrag Mikic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 27 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dr Zoran Mašić submitted to article 5 of the 14th amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 25 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th Amendment was submitted by Dušan Stupar. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 26 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jevremovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 29 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Veljko Kovacevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 27 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 25 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by Gojko Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to the 5th edition of the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, they did not vote 22, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th edition of the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 123, they did not vote 23, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 21st Amendment was submitted by Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 23 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Nadica Momirov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 101, it did not vote 23, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Predrag Stosic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 32, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 23 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Igor Becic submitted to article 5 of the 34th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, two abstentions, were not voted 24 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Saša Valjarevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 30 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 43rd Amendment was submitted by Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 29 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ivana Zečević submitted to Article 5 of the 44th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 28 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 45th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 30 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to article 5 of the 46th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, there were no 28 votes, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 36 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 5, the 54th Amendment was filed by Lasslo Varg. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10 against 120, 25 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 6, the 56th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 122, there was no vote of 23, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 6th division of the 57th and 59th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs: Balint Pastor, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 116, the vote was not 28 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 6 of the amendment by Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 30 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by the Duvnjak Momchilo. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, there were no 28 votes, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. He submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment Lasslo Varg. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 122, 22 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 120, was not voted 32, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of Dr Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 123, 30 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, there was no vote of 27, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 29 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 27 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 124, he did not vote 21 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 122, 17 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 29 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 34 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 30 out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, John Day. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, 29 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 33 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, he did not vote 31, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, with two abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Zoran Mašić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 38 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 29 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bojan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 125, 22 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 122, they did not vote 23, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 124, 19 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 34 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 30 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, in general. For 132, against 11, there were 14 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. Having adopted the Bill on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to the financial plans for 2008, the Republic Fund for PIO, the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Institute. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic PIO Fund for 2008. For 132 against 7, 15 of the 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2008. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2008 National Employment Service's financial plan. For 133, against 7, there were 14 votes, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2008. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2008. For 133, against 6, there were no 16 votes, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2008 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Privatization Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in principle. For 136, against four, it did not vote 14, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Susana Grubjesic: an amendment proposed to add a new article 5a after Article 5a; to Article 6, with correction and to Article 8. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 41, with 9 abstentions, he did not vote 91, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 28 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, there was no vote of 23, of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, there was no vote of 24 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, 25 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 27 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12 against 120, he did not vote 21 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 25 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Željko Vasiljevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 124, 19 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 25 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Saša Valjarevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, there was no vote of 27, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 126 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 30 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 124, it was not 13 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 121, 20 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 34 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 126, there were 14 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 124, 18 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 125, there were 14 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 128, 12 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 125, there were 14 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 124, 14 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, 30 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, he did not vote 31, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Milosav Miličkovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 29 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Bojan Milovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dusan Stupar. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 124, there was no vote of 16 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in general. For 135, against two, 17 of the 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation, which CITIZES OPEN IN THE PRIVATION PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in principle. For 136, it did not vote 18 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Suzanne Grubjesic, letters from 12, 13 and 25 December 2007, to Articles 1, 23 and 24, to the title above the members and members 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30; Bojan Milovanovic, letter of 13 December 2007, amendment to Article 2(2), and amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 4; Srdjan Šin, letter of 18 December 2007, amendment to Article 6; Nikola Novaković, at the meeting of the Privatisation Committee, amendments to Articles 23 and 26 and Rajko Baralic, during the search of the Bills in Details, to Article 2; representative of the Proposer Mr Mladjan Dinkić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, in the course of the draft laws in particular, withdrew the Government's amendment to Article 26. I would also like to inform you that an integral part of the draft law has become amendments of the Government to Articles 1 and 23, to the title above members and Articles 24, to the title above members and members 25 and to Articles 27, 29 and 30 and to the amendment of the Privatisation Committee to Article 26, the amendment which is proposed to add a new section and section 31a and amendments to Article 32 to Chapter 7. I would also remind you that an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment of the Privatisation Committee to Article 2 since the Government has notified the Government in the course of a review of the draft law in particular by letter 05 No 011-7889/2007-28 of 25 December 2007, that it accepts this amendment. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Vladan Batic tabled an amendment proposing a change in the title of the bill. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 125, there was no vote of 25, of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 115, 35 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 119, there was no vote of 33, of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Before we move to a decision on the next amendment, members of the Kosovo and Metohija committee are informed that the board session will take place immediately after the vote in the Press Hall. I ask the members of the Kosovo and Metohija committee to attend the committee sessions. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 125, there were 14 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 122 abstentions, 17 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 120, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Slobodan Maras submitted. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 117, there was no vote of 36, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 124, 25 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to article 9 and all other members showing up to the word "minister", the amendment was submitted. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, he did not vote 31, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 120, 29 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, it did not vote 35 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 120, 29 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 122, he did not vote 21, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 31, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 29 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 116, 32 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 123, 20 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, 21 of the 155 MPs did not vote against 121. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 121, 24 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 121, 20 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 33, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 120, there was no vote of 20, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 123, 18 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15 against 20, it did not vote 19 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 127, 15 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 121, 18 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 120, there was no vote of 20, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 121, there were no 28 votes, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 19, there was no vote of 20, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Dusan Bajatovic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 121, 18 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 125, it did not vote 16 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 123, 18 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Dusan Bajatovic and Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 124, 12 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in general. For 136, it did not vote 17 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Roads in principle. For 129 against three, it did not vote 19 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 130, was not voted 20 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 123, there was no vote of 23, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Roads, in general. For 133, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill amending the Law on Public Roads. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE FRAMEWORK CONCERNED BY THE GOVERNMENT BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN THE IMPLEMENT ASSISTANCE OF THE INSTITUMENT (IPA) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules for co-operation relating to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the context of the implementation of assistance under the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), in principle. For 137, there was no vote of 11 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules for co-operation relating to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the context of the implementation of assistance under the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), in general. For 142, six out of 148 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly adopted a draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for co-operation relating to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the context of the implementation of assistance under the pre-accession assistance instrument (IPA) rules. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. For 134, it was not 11 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. For 138, it did not vote 6, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee, which was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 141, they did not vote four out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. Having made clear on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, within the 10th item of the agenda, on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly within the 11th and 12th points of the agenda, I ask whether you agree to publish the proposed decisions in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act - Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 135, it did not vote 8 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on employees' injuries. National MP Laslo Varga, at a session on 14 December 2007, at 15.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one against 119, abstention one, 21 of the 142 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 21 December 2007, at 15.50 hours, indicated that the chairman, Milosevic Albianic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured a member. 27, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 5, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. (The session is over at 13.00 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15059	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THE seventh session of the Second Regular Session on 26 December 2007 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.15 p.m. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the service to make a count of the Members of the people present. I find that the count found that 149 MPs were present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that Mr Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Slobodan Samardzic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been invited to attend today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the State Negotiation Team Report on the negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija between 10 August and 19 December 2007 and a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia submitted by the government. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before we continue to work, please respect the change in the formulation in the name of point 1 of the draft agenda of the current session. In the light of the high importance of the Kosovo and Metohija sessions, the MPs requested that this session be convened and held as soon as possible today, before we knew the exact name of the State Negotiation Team Report and the motion for a resolution, which should be discussed at today's session. Starting from this, the exact name of item 1 of the draft agenda should read: The negotiating team's report on negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija between 10 August and 19 December 2007 and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you'll appreciate this explanation. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. A group of 11 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group suggested putting the draft resolution on the agenda to protect the European perspective of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 2007. I'm asking the service to conduct a vote count. Who's in, please raise your hand? ( 17) Who is against it? Nobody. Who abstained from voting? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the State Negotiation Team's report on negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija between 10 August and 19 December 2007 and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 2007. I'm asking the service to conduct a vote count. Who would please raise your hand? (130) Who's against it? Nobody. Who abstained from voting? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I'm asking the service to conduct a vote count. Who would please raise your hand? (150) Who's against it? Nobody. Who abstained from voting? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. A report by the State Negotiating Team on negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija between 10 August and 19 December 2007 and a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which the government submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 2007. Work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Report of the National Negotiating Team on the negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija (10 August – 19 December 2007) and Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia You have received the State Negotiation Team Report on the negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija and a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Government. You have received an amendment to the text of the motion for a resolution jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. I give my word to Mr. Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15061	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give my assessment regarding the course of negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Negotiations held over the past two years have been very difficult and uncertain. The negotiating team, which received a mandate from this assembly, worked, in my opinion, well on its work, consistently favouring the principle of maintaining the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The strength of the position of the National Negotiating Team in the negotiations was that we performed unitedly, using democratic, diplomatic and legal means and accompanied by a strong argument of each of our individual proposals. Thanks to this approach, negotiations have been going on intensively for two years now, despite the constant threats and forecasts that come from the most diverse sides that insist on that same date for both Kosovo and Metohija becoming independent. And here, we are all here to witness that even after all these rumors, Kosovo is still not independent. That is why we must continue to defend our national and national interest, in the same way as so far. Any other approach to the negotiations or change of the single state policy would present the introduction of Serbia and its citizens at risk and in suspense. I am convinced that no one in this room has any serious objections to the principles on which the defence of our national interests and the perspective of our citizens is based. Any giving up on the principles on which Kosovo and Metohija are based would essentially be a surrender to the problems Serbia has. We, the elected representatives of the citizens, have no right to surrender and therefore ask you to continue to defend the interests of the state and citizens with full capacity. Dear MPs, Serbia held a proactive stance and initiative in the negotiations on Kosovo's future status. With our proposals, we have opened the possibility of reaching a compromise that would respect the legitimate interest of both Kosovo Albanians and Serbs, and other non-Albanians and the Serbian state itself. Unfortunately, in the process, we had no conversation on the other side. The Pristina delegation persistently sought to avoid the topic of negotiations – Kosovo's future status, trying to lead the conversation on the wrong track, so-called. Post-conditional questions. We, of course, didn't allow it for a single moment. For us, the only topic of negotiations is the future status of Kosovo and Metohija and the lives of people in our southern province. We've proposed the most likely autonomy modes, by the example of those that function in the world, some of them for decades, some shorter, like the model of the island or Hong Kong. Of course, the negotiating team had no idea that these models would be repainted, but to apply the appropriate experiences that had been proved in practice. We are convinced that here in the Balkans, conflict and disagreement can only be resolved by compromise. That is why we have called and persistently called for a continuation of the negotiations, because we are convinced that the solution is acceptable for both sides to find. And in that sense, it is welcome to welcome every proposal in favour of continuing negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status, because it is a long-term, stable and peaceful solution to the interests of all countries and peoples in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, when I talk about proposals here, first of all, I mean support and initiative coming from the Russian Federation. A very important statement from the Troika meeting, the head of diplomacy, Greece, Romania and Bulgaria, saying diplomatic efforts to reach an agreement on Kosovo have not been exhausted. The United Nations Security Council session of December 19th showed that there is a deep division in the body on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. This situation is in favour of our position on the need to continue negotiations. A new Security Council session of the United Nations on Kosovo and Metohija will be held on January 9th and will represent our country's single policy. As for the announcement of a declaration of unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, I would remind you that such announcements have been coming from Pristina in recent years. One such decision has already been made by temporary institutions in Kosovo, but it was immediately annulled. As far as Serbia is concerned, it would immediately declare any re-determination of that species invalid. Serbia will never accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the solution to Kosovo and Metohija's future status must be brought to the United Nations Security Council, as well as that United Nations body must agree to any change in the composition of a civilian and military mission in our province. [[Applause]] If there were any violence in Kosovo and if KFOR would not be able to respond adequately and protect Serbs and other non-Albanians, the Serbian Army is ready at any time to protect the interests of all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, with the consent of competent international institutions, precisely respecting international law, to help and protect the vulnerable population. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this resolution on Kosovo and Metohija confirms a single state policy that protects Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty and further progress in our country's European integration. Our country will do everything to keep Kosovo in Serbia and Serbia on its European path, and both of these principles must be achieved through peaceful policy, peaceful and diplomatic means. By insulating the rest of the world and war, we cannot preserve Kosovo, nor provide an economic perspective for the citizens. Security and stability for all our citizens are mine, and I'm sure your priority too. I thank you for your attention and I assure you that all state institutions will consistently implement a single state policy on Kosovo and Metohija in the coming period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15062	I thank President Boris Tadic. Now, I would like to give my word to Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15063	Dear People's MPs, there is today a Report from the National Negotiating Team so that you can fully learn about all the relevant facts of the negotiations so far. At the same time, you have a motion for a resolution that directs further work and obliges state institutions to protect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. I think special attention deserves the last Security Council session to discuss the report of the Intermediate Troika. It is my duty to inform you that this session of December 19th, as soon as possible, through the will of America and several European states, has prevented Russia's official initiative to continue the negotiation process and, in effect, blocked the work of the Security Council to find a compromise solution for the future status of the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, Western countries, led by the United States, have announced that after the presidential elections in Serbia, they will recognise the province's unilateral independence based on the rejected Ahtisaari plan. We, therefore, are in the next situation – the United States has decided that no further negotiations can be negotiated, with an explanation, that only for the Kosovo issue cannot be found a compromise. And more than that, America has decided that a problem, which the Security Council has begun to resolve by its resolution, must be resolved outside the Security Council by direct violation of Resolution 1244, the Charter of the United Nations and the final Helsinki Act. And when all this is considered, it cannot be without imposing a question why America has decided to openly destroy international law and the United Nations system. I believe that no one thought that the United States was doing all this because of the interest of the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija. It was actually best seen at the Security Council session, December 19th, where a representative of Kosovo Albanians seemed to have never participated. The idea of Kosovo's unilateral independence was represented and defended by US and British ambassadors, with authentic fighting and a barbecue that defends only its own interests. It is doubtless that America is destroying the current Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, above all, for the sake of achieving its military-security interests. The United States is knowingly sacrificing Serbia's state and national interests and the life interests of Kosovo Albanians only to create a quasi-state formation that the NATO Pact would be, according to Anex 11 Ahtisaari's plan, the "final organ" of the authorities in allegedly "independent Kosovo". To better look at this policy of force, we can set things up in the next way. If it's up to the comparison of who owns a greater force, we accept that the force is on the side of America. But in doing so, we have the other side of the medal, that America, which at one point looked like a symbol of freedom, is now becoming a symbol of force politics in the case of Kosovo. Serbia cannot be happy that this policy of force has turned against us, but we can be completely calm because our strength rests in respect of law and that we defend the simple truth that Kosovo is Serbia. We can accept that today, in the world, such a situation has prevailed that for many countries, law means almost nothing, as well as truth, no justice, no dignity of state and nation. Perhaps with the destruction of Resolution 1244, a new era has already begun, in which the true values of force, violence, injustice, humiliation of the weaker and trade of national goods and state interests. Serbia certainly did not join and seize the benefits of this force policy and we draw our strength from the people's will that established the Constitution of Serbia and the position of Kosovo within Serbia. Oslonac, of course, is also in the decision of the National Assembly that has entrusted us with defending Kosovo and Serbia by upholding rights and justice. Therefore, if we acknowledge that the force is on the side of America, we can be sure that when it comes to the right thing, they stand entirely in favour of Serbia. Here in the National Assembly, we can support it with solid evidence, which has already been made known to the whole world, which is, and I'm going to count them now. It is not Serbia, but America has said negotiations are being interrupted, while Serbia is pushing for a continuation of negotiations. It is not Serbia, but America has said that a compromise is not possible, while Serbia is pushing for compromise. It is not Serbia, but America has said it will reach for unilateral solutions, while Serbia explicitly opposes unilateral acts. It is not Serbia, but America has said it will act outside the Security Council's decisions, while Serbia insists all decisions must be made by the Security Council. It is not Serbia, but America has threatened to trample the current Resolution 1244 and the Charter of the United Nations, illegally recognising unilateral independence, while Serbia is demanding that Resolution 1244 and the Charter of the United Nations be strictly respected. Dear People's MPs, let's imagine that they are now playing a replacement, so now Serbia is representing the numbered views represented in the Kosovo issue by the countries of old Western democracy. What would happen? There is no doubt that all the world's media would immediately place Serbia on a pillar of shame, and they would not be excluded from much harsher measures. And when one imagines such a replacement role, it is even better seen how right Serbia is and even clearer it becomes that it is, in fact, only fighting for its right. Our great Serbian patriarch, Paul, has given an amanet to his people that even when it comes to our very survival, we should not do injustice, and these are also the words that the Patriarch of the Serbian people direct to the world today and the world at the same time. Because of this, we must show ourselves more self-awareness and self-respect for the fight that the entire Serbian people are leading for Kosovo's defence. The historical fact is that Kosovo has never betrayed any Serb generation and has each defended it within its limits, of course, its powers. That's why we need to do as much as we can and what we have to do, which is what our duty and our conscience are telling us, and some better, future generations, let them do more. Dear People's MPs, that we all or almost all share a common firm attachment to the view that Serbia once and for all rejects every kind of independence of Kosovo and that this is the first and last word of Serbia – at this time our last line of defence against violence and unilateral independence must be a strong resolution that the Serbian Parliament is to adopt today. This is, at the same time, a very important, encouraging, important message to Serbs from Kosovo, that they have their own government and their Assembly in Belgrade and that they must know that they are equal and full citizens of Serbia, and that, again, an illegal act on unilateral independence should be ignored as an existing phenomenon. We all know well, too, that all this time Russia has been a solid and faithful ally of Serbia, defending Serbia's principled international law and right not to rob it of its territory. President Putin has not allowed Serbia to be humiliated in the Security Council and be the first state since the UN was taken away from territory. If it weren't for Russia, in the eyes of the world's general public, our struggle with the high level of defence of law, which it is at this time, would be reduced to a small regional conflict in which the two sides struggle to achieve their own particular interests. The creators of Kosovo's independence have come up with a stamp of the only state allowed to dismember Serbia, to declare it, they say, a unique and unrepeated case, because it is about Serbia. All proposals for new resolutions based on Ahtisaari's plan and envisioned sending an EU mission to implement supervised independence have prevented Serbia and Russia from adopting a common policy in the Security Council. And therefore, of course, we owe great gratitude to Russia. Respected National Assembly, fighting for Kosovo is a struggle for Serbia's freedom. It would be best if we and Kosovo Albanians agreed to live peacefully, freely and together, because Kosovo is big enough to achieve mutual fundamental interests. Not to remind, it is fully in line with the values of multiethnicity in which today's democratic world swears. The problem is that in addition to Serbian and Albanian interests, it is obviously not possible to satisfy American interests, as the US is preventing Kosovo Albanians from meeting the agreement. Serbia will not give up on finding an agreement, but even less can give up on Kosovo, because we, as a people, are neither free as a country if Kosovo is not, as it says in the Constitution, a province within Serbia. Dear National Assembly, can Serbia give part of its territory, give Kosovo for any other purpose or interest? Whoever thinks he can, first of all, has to be given approval from the people to change the Constitution, and only then can he fulfill such a purpose. Until then, the Constitution requires us to see the first and highest constitutional obligation of all state institutions of Serbia in the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Our country's future cannot be maimed by Serbia, but our future must be the whole of Serbia. Like every nation, we must fight for our future and fight for the preservation of a comprehensive Serbia. If some countries think that they have maimed us with unilateral independence, Serbia must show them in the coming years that unilateral independence is for us the most common puppet creation to disappear. We have to fight and fight for Serbia's future, because we don't have another time. Otherwise, tomorrow it could easily come to one's mind that the crippled Serbia can dismember, disperse further, as it pleases. Serbia's future and Kosovo's fate are inextricably linked and therefore it is clear what we should do. For us gathered here, for you MPs of the National Assembly, for all state institutions, according to the Constitution of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija remain an integral and inalienable part of Serbia. It's our duty to fulfill. That is why I call on you, honourable MPs, to vote today for the proposed resolution for the sake of Kosovo's preservation, for the sake of Serbia's future and its freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15064	Thank you. I give my word to the proposing representative, Mr Slobodan Samardzic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15065	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a report on the negotiation process that lasted from 10 August to 19 December this year, a report that is almost fact-finding and describing what was happening during these four months of negotiations. The report was given to the Assembly for adoption, after which a resolution should be discussed and adopted, which is timely and logically followed by one such report, therefore, a resolution that should be imposed on all state authorities and all public actors on what to do further about Kosovo and Metohija both in Kosovo and Metohija. This time I will only give a few assessments of the course of the negotiation process and its epilogue, not delaying the discussion, since it is necessary for more MPs to discuss it, but for those who have worked on it. The new phase began after the failure to pass on a resolution to the SB that would have some elements of Ahtisaari's plan, notably Anexa 10th and 11th on the presence of the European mission and on the presence of a new NATO engagement in KIM. The national negotiating team has joined this new phase with good political will, with adequate preparation, starting from the previous platform or platform of the previous negotiating team, but to a good extent that platform is inaugurating and giving some new elements, given the passage of time and the need for a new phase of negotiation. In addition, during the negotiations, the state itself has stepped up its diplomatic activity and it is a parallel process that has significantly helped the position of the negotiating team and its defence of state interests during the negotiation process. The role of Troika, as an intermediary authorized by the Secretary-General, was much more cautious and more balanced compared to the period led by Mr Martti Ahtisaari. There was a decisive role for Russia, and Troika, at least at the beginning, also welcomedly approached this process, in order to reach a compromise solution. I can conclude here that the Troika during the negotiations showed a rather untenable pragmatism, if I may say so, by making a proposal for Serbs and Albanians to agree on whatever they want in this negotiation process and whatever they agree on, it would be acceptable, according to their assessment, for a solution. So many Troikas initially sought to cite the topic of Serbia-Kosovo's relations, in order to achieve a common position. Our party did not accept this strategy this time either, because it kept strictly that mandate the Secretary-General gave, which is, to speak about KIM status and to come up with a compromise on status, and that further relations can be discussed when KIM status is determined. Finally, when I mention these parties and participants in the negotiations, to mention that the Albanian side has acted and acted almost the same way as it was in the previous negotiation process. She was more or less uninterested to discuss the subject itself, to enter the controversy, to make her proposals, to respond to our proposals, she was already acting quite comfortable, as if the finals were known. You, of course, recognize the old problem of these negotiations, which is that one side has been completely disengaged and demoted to seek a compromise solution, since someone she believed in has promised her independent Kosovo and Metohija. The whole time there was this problem and the shadow of the final solution, as well as the case when he led the Ahtisaari process, and therefore it cost him a good atmosphere and any chance of a compromise solution. If we gave a joint assessment, we could say that the negotiations were better and more open compared to the period of the Ahtisaari negotiations. However, status was discussed, however, the Albanian side had to react to some of our proposals and, in addition, refused to compromise or discuss status. It was created, according to the Troika report, one minimum basis for Russia at least at the Security Council to seek a continuation of the negotiation process. That is what she did, as you know, on December 19th, at a Security Council meeting, and not only did she seek a continuation of negotiations based on a better atmosphere, yet some minimum results, but also a large number of members of the Security Council, five of them next to Russia, supported the proposal to continue negotiations. That's the thing that blocked the United States with a number of allies, countries mostly of the European Union, who weren't interested in continuing this thing. The negotiations, unfortunately, could not lead to a compromise solution, as there was no real incentive for the Albanian side to enter those negotiations, as the Serbian side did. But the main culprits of this failure are not Albanians. It is not a delegation representing temporary institutions, but it is one that encouraged it to be obstructed, which is, above all, the United States and one number of European countries. Finally, in conclusion, I can say that Serbia has acquired additional international capital at this stage of the negotiations, an international capital that should be maintained and increased in the coming period, that means immediately. It consists of an increased and enhanced understanding of many significant countries, including many forces in the world, but also many neighbouring countries, many European Union countries, many other continents, that Serbia is really defending its interests on the basis of its and, above all, international rights. She convinced Serbia, all those countries that Kosovo's independence would be a dangerous precedent, and you have increasingly more and more reactions in the course of this international process, which should contribute to Kosovo and Metohija's solution. With this capital we will continue to work and we are sure that we will achieve final success towards our state objectives and interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15066	I thank Minister Samardzic. Before we move on to the report of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, a National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, appeared in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15067	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and People's Parliament, Mr. Kostunica and members of the Government, I have reported that I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 84, paragraph 1, then Article 104 of Rule 225, which refers to the delivery of material to the MPs, and since you did not give me a word when I reported to the Rules of Procedure, I am now advertising Article 100, because you should have given me the word, Mr. President, when I reported it. That's why you hurt the Rules of Procedure before the agenda was established, when you called this assembly, then you should have given me your word. I don't see why the President of the Republic of Serbia got his word before me, especially this applies to the Prime Minister, given that he was elected by this assembly and that he corresponds to this assembly for his work. The situation that the President of the Republic, ministers and prime ministers are coming to the Assembly should be common. Because of the nature of their envoys, they should visit the Assembly, be interested in work. I don't see any reason to be so excited that they've come, so that we're even more in violation of the Rules of Procedure, as I don't see any reason for the applause after their speeches to last for two or three minutes. I don't see any reason to be happy about what they said or what it is like in Serbia today. However, why did I first report for breach of the Rules of Procedure? In what way did you, Mr. President, call this assembly? Two days ago, at a meeting of the parliamentary group presidents, you said the assembly would be convened on Friday, with this agenda topic. Afterwards, MPs again from the media had the opportunity to hear that the Assembly would be today at 1400 hours. We got the agenda this morning, the material that follows the call we got this morning. I don't know how you expect us to study the negotiating team's report and the resolution and get ready in a good way for this session. Next, where are all the ministers in the government? Where is the president, where is the prime minister, where have they all been when other topics have been worked out in this country, at other sessions, why were they not present at the adoption of the budget, the CEFTA Agreement, when the decision on the use of pre-accession instruments of the European Union was adopted when the Constitutional Court Act was adopted when a set of presidential laws was adopted? Doesn't it matter to them how much this is, don't they care about the lives of people in this country and what these people depend on? Why are we holding this assembly and this session in this building, where there are no conditions for the work of MPs? My MP group is in the office she borrowed, which is why we don't have a phone, we don't have a internet, we don't even have a TV, and I don't see any reason why only these sessions of the assembly are being held here when it comes to Kosovo. If you want to single out the physical sessions of the Assembly when discussing Kosovo from other sessions, I suggest you schedule the next assembly in Pristina, and we will also show in physical terms that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15068	Thank you. Does the word of the rapporteur of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, MP Vladimir Milentijevic, president of the Committee want? No, I don't. ) Does Dr Vladan Batic, who expressed his opinion at the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15069	Mr. President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this day, December 26, 1968, in the same room, then the Federal Assembly adopted amendments, constitutional amendments, to which then Kosovo and Metohija practically received the prerogatives and authority of the Republic, with legislative, executive and judicial authority. This was the beginning of the institutional end of Kosovo and Metohija, which has since been no longer called Kosovo and Metohija, but only Kosovo. Today, with the game of fate, symbolically, in the same place, you gentlemen from the ruling coalition, you nail this last nail into the coffin that you're turning Kosovo and Metohija into. Why? Because the resolution could and should have written only – what if Kosovo Albanians declared independence, and this independence was recognised by the United States, Europe, most neighbouring countries, etc. What do Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija do? Should they stay or go? If you're offering to leave, where will they go? In the gym? In factory halls? To the constituency centers? Or tell them, they'll make our tycoons "Kosovo City," "Methochia Siti," you'll live with a man of dignity, like the whole normal world. If you're offering to stay, then explain how to stay. Who's gonna protect them? What happens when it gets dark? What is their future, fate, perspective? Why? Because they are your bodies, some of you, who are diving crocodile tears for Kosovo and Metohija, whose buds, capitals, property, companies are getting bigger and bigger, they will go away. So 10-11% of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have somewhere to go in Serbia, mostly political or, to call it, an intellectual elite. What's a common people who don't have anything to eat? What are you offering him? This should be answered without talking about developments in Kosovo and Metohija, for which this government is responsible; illegal border crossings, rackets, smuggling, crime, corruption, donations from those hateful Western countries. And you didn't ask Putin if you could take for your private projects that donation, money from Kosovo's budget, and over here, it's hateful Shiplars, terrorists, separatists, etc. Interdepartmental conflicts, anathemisation and satanicization of political opponents, marking those who voted in Gorazdevec in the Kosovo elections, mostly from the DS, will you place yellow ribbons on them? Consequences and sanctions against them are required. That's what you had to answer. Our colleague, Mrs. Petkovic, her house is threatened, attacked, kept quiet. There was no session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee for the month and a half. That should have been said in that resolution without talking about double standards; the Kosovo Library – headquarters in Belgrade, the Kosovo Museum – headquarters in Belgrade, "unity", newspapers – headquarters in Belgrade, double salaries, etc. We'll talk about it another time. So, it should have been said -- where the Serbs should have said so -- where Serbia, if not already in the EU, would have said so. Who's he gonna be in league with? With Russia? Belarus? Mongolia, Cuba? Rhodesia? - A miracle? - I hear we're being supported by India, Indonesia and South Africa these days. Is that our future? But write it in the resolution. You get that out and say it. The Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, the only institution recognised by UNMIK, was repealed, in agreement with Resolution 1244. The Office of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija was introduced against Resolution 1244. I keep sticking my finger in my eye. You say you're not going into any military alliance. What other military alliance do you know besides the North Atlantic Alliance or the NATO Pact? If Serbia had been a member of the Pact before, no square inch of its territory could have been taken. And the EU is setting conditions, like a low-class football player who wants to be on the big team. They tell him wait, you're not for us, and you're hiding something there, and you say, no, no, no, not that I want to come, but I'm going to set the conditions for you. Then the big club says, well, none of you in the next 10, 20 or more years will be able to play on this team. So we're closing the door. Have you ever considered what the Italian Foreign Minister, Mr. D'alema, has indicated between the lines? (President: Time. I'm done. The possibility of dividing Kosovo. Well, it's better than nothing. Don't talk, we'll save him, and we'll lose him. And in the end, gentlemen, you who offer this resolution will be responsible if there is this evil, for every tractor trailer, for every broken church, for every tear in the eye of a child found in the assembly center and for every man and young and girl, educated, smart who freezes and waits in line in front of the embassies to seek their happiness and their future somewhere in the far world. You'll be responsible for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15070	Thank you. Are any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several times in this National Assembly, I did not perform as president solely of the strongest parliamentary groups in the Assembly, but as a MP who wishes there were points of the agenda to achieve as much agreement as possible. And to remind you, I sacrificed the interests of the party to a large extent to the creation of a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when I accepted compromises that were not fully in line with our programme and our ideology. The second time I made a great sacrifice when you negotiated the composition of the new government, when I could do some kind of obstruction, which you would roughly, of course, trample, counter-constitutionally interfere with 126 MPs to form a government. I wasn't led by party interests then either. This is the third time today. I have to tell you, now or never, thirdly, I guess the last time you have the chance for the SRS to try to understand your intentions as well-intentioned, as state-of-the-art, as the intentions of the current government that wants to preserve Kosovo and Metohija and this time, with the reasons I'm going to ask you to, we are willing to give you a chance to show this resolution to the citizens of Serbia what we really want in Kosovo and Metohija. To me, the President of the Republic looked like a lullaby, anesthesia before amputation. It is not so easy and it is not true that Kosovo and Metohija are not independent, so far we have fought for it. Please prepare us for the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, declared by Albanians and accepted by your friends. Please, both you and the Prime Minister, don't tell us about the Western forces here, don't tell us about America, tell us about the EU. In your speeches, I have not heard what the EU wants except for the vice-president of the EU Council, a statement by the accession commissioner, but whose party made it absolutely clear just a few days ago that the EU must enter into the Association Agreement to say what Serbia is for it. With compromises and agreements that have been very rotten and have been going on for a year, you've come to some text resolution, you're proud of what you've agreed on. Are we, waiting for you to make a deal, proud of what you have agreed? Is each of you individually proud of what you agreed? Is this exactly the text that the President of the Republic wanted? Is this the text the Prime Minister wanted? And who's behind this text now? Who's gonna fulfill the resolution orders? Who runs foreign policy, Mr. Prime Minister? The President of the Republic who has not said anything about Serbia's future relations with other international organisations, with other states that recognise independence, has only threatened war, or you, Mr. Prime Minister, who is clearly here, seem to me, to have expressed your party position, should not have entered it into the resolution, but I expect you to remain at that position in which it clearly states that we will not sign agreements with those who do not recognise us as a state that is sovereign, comprehensive, united, within the limits of which is a member of the UN. Our fight for Kosovo and Metohija is not a struggle for territory, but for the borders of the state. Only for the borders of the state. It is understood that there is no one to take your territory if you defend the borders. It's all clear here. And we're all to blame for what's going on. I'm not amnesting anyone at all. Neither do I. We've come to day "d". You remind me of what happened at the end of 2000, and I will remind you of what happened in these seven years since the rock of power and we won't get anything and we won't achieve anything. Here, today is the day that we face our own safety, our mistakes, our successes, and when from today we all move together into one success or one failure, but that we all wear it on our backs, that no one else accuses him of cheating, of being manipulated, that he didn't want to, that he couldn't have, that he couldn't have. Is this resolution to defend Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia? Is this resolution a sign that there are no talks with those who do not recognise that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia? Is this resolution a sign that all the ministers, all the governments Serbia currently has, and there are several, will all defend Kosovo and Metohija in all the talks they will have. If that's a sign, we'll vote on this resolution with two hands each, but I doubt why it doesn't say so clearly in this resolution. What did you need to do to make this resolution foggy and now convince us here that you have pure intentions? Who are you afraid of? Your court is citizens of Serbia. There is no court in Moscow, there is no in Brussels, there is no in Washington, except in Serbia -- for politicians. I'm not sure tomorrow the citizens of Serbia will understand the resolution. [[Applause]] Those who are in favour of talking to the European Union at all costs will say – so it is written here in the resolution. For we shall strive to preserve the sovereignty of the state, and if we fail, my God, we shall say, we have failed. Those who are not in favour of talks at all costs, those who are for Serbia at all costs, they will say, so here in the resolution, we will preserve sovereignty, and there are no negotiations, and there is no accession, and there is no agreement and there is nothing, unless someone acknowledges that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. It's impossible, according to your testimony so far, by your ideology, by how we all know you, and I especially, that this is a document that you and the DSS agree on. It's impossible, you didn't find a document that you agree on, because the Constitution wasn't imperative to you. What do you invent for us is a definition that says in the Constitution? Why, as a guarantee of statehood, have we adopted this Constitution – you have given up on some of your principles, we have given up, we have come to the text about which the vast majority of citizens have declared themselves in the referendum? Why, if that doesn't say it in this resolution, why do we need formulas that don't mean anything? Serbia is a state of Kosovo and Metohija. The President of the Republic takes an oath to defend such a Serbia. We don't have a president of the Republic who took that oath. The Prime Minister doesn't even have an obligation to take such an oath. With how much uncertainty we are expecting this session today, and as it is only for Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Are we able to protect them?- I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. President of the State, for performing as my spokesman. You're making excellent ideas, except I brought them out before you, so I was attacked to lead Serbia into war. Now they've come to all these views, excellent. I'm not mad. I didn't even patent it anywhere, I think a good idea is for all Serbs to implement it. It's a good thing you've been negotiating. You knew it didn't have anything to do with it yourself. We told you that before you first went to the negotiations. We said, "No one can prevent or prevent the negotiations." But there, you find yourself facing the plight of America, leading the European Union. It's called -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That plight brought you first into negotiations where there was no negotiation at all. I don't know who you were talking to until Ahtisaari wrote his plan, you didn't talk to the Albanians. Afterwards, he brought the Albanians into the story of accepting nothing, just waiting for time to pass. We have proposed and proposed, proposed and proposed. And who's asking us if we've proposed or accepted the suggestions? You had Ramboi in front of you. In Rambuje, we didn't accept. Albanians proposed and Albanians got what they wanted -- Serbia's bombing. Now we have proposed, Albanians did not accept, again it could be said – that Serbia was bombed. Did you find the principles of America when discussing Serbia's fate? The principles are clear, they seek independence for Kosovo and Metohija. Our principles are clear – there is no independence between Kosovo and Metohija! I'm asking you, all of what it says can't be left unannounced. What does that mean – the government will take action? Well, the assembly needs to order the government to measure it. Who's going to exercise control of the government's actions that the government has prepared? National Assembly, don't run away from the National Assembly. Let her stand behind you. The strongest politician behind whom the National Assembly stands. It's not about you two making a deal, it's about making a deal with the National Assembly. But the National Assembly is a mechanism, 250 MPs ask to understand, even your MPs ask you to make it clear to them, because one day everyone's responsibility will be tested, even the responsibility of the MPs who voted, and they didn't know what they were voting for. We, as always, will sacrifice our own ideology, and our programme and desire to make this crystal clear, and we will vote for this motion for a resolution. But you owe us a final word here; both Mr. President of the State and Mr. Prime Minister. What does that point "j" mean, what does it represent? That's not what the minister said, I guess he can, he won't lead any party in life. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? What does that mean in negotiations with the European Union? Will the government decide to sign an Association Agreement, in which the European Union will not guarantee that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia? Mr. Prime Minister, I remind you of a statement from your spokesman just a few days ago, he even said that you would insist that it be in the motion for a resolution. Come on, I accept that you couldn't put that in the motion for a resolution, you don't want to go into conflict with the president of the state, okay, but you have to tell us now. If an agreement does not say that KIM is part of Serbia, will you vote at the cabinet's session that Mr Djelic, who has prepared the pen, went and signed the agreement after you have already authorised him to sign it? It's easy to play, it's hard to be serious. Serbia is now ahead of the most serious exam, during the election campaign, at a time when it doesn't matter what happens by January 20th; and I don't count on February 3rd, so don't count on you to have any obligations on February 3rd. I want to tell you perfectly clearly, in this difficult battle for Kim, everyone is welcome. [[Applause]] Throw no one away, nor shall we cast anyone away. But I invite anyone who does not think that he is involved in this struggle to think carefully about what he leaves for his descendants and what he will do before his ancestors. This isn't an invitation to war. Don't mention the army here. There's no room for our army here. There's room here for a tough diplomatic fight, for the support of friends in the world, for anyone who can help us produce, work and buy our goods. Gentlemen, this is no basis for the Western civilization that we belong to, but that won't. This is based on friends in the world. Thank God, you haven't had enough fighting with your friends in the world, and you've had a bad wish since 2000. Now, if you stood in front of a mirror and remembered what you were doing in 2001, you'd bow your head in front of a Russian attitude. Russia was a catchy country for you back then. The mention of Russia here was, no matter what, calling for a curse. Today, Russia dragged us into the defense of KIM and you didn't volunteer to follow it, but now you're going after it. Don't accidentally step out of it. In the defense of KIM you have the support of the SRS until the moment we decide. But we are not an opposition to the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. We're opposition when you rob people. We are opposition when you bring bad laws, when there is no production, when you steal, when you are in bribery and corruption, but when you go into the defense of Kosovo and Metohija, we are not your opposition and I am not ashamed. You will not have opposition speeches from the SRS today, but you will have anxious speeches, determined and firm speeches, you will only have one question – whether entering the EU is a priority in relation to Kosovo and Metohija or not? [[Applause]] Don't tell us it's a priority. Please don't say that, because it will divide Serbia. As scared and concerned as she is, as much as we fear for our child, for our grandchild, do not say that there is something more important than the fate of Kosovo and Metohija and of the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, because we are citizens of Serbia. Many of us are Serbs, it cannot be expelled from us, by threats, by blackmail, by rewards, by gifts, by any promise. We have reached the almost last resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. The next one has to be a motion measure. I'm pleased that we were represented there. We were well presented at the Security Council session. I know that I shouldn't be praising any of you here right now, and I don't know why, but I'm sure a lot of people will think I'm expecting anyone's support. I don't need support, you're a regime for me. Hold on, do whatever you want, we're just not going to let Serbia get hurt. So, I admit that we were well represented at the Security Council session, but this resolution did not come from the Prime Minister's speech at the Security Council session. That's all I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of people with two faces. You perform openly, boldly, congratulatingly, both there and here, so when you get a round of applause that you can do on both sides, when someone's criticizing you to criticise you on both sides. Not when you're on your way, as soon as you get on a plane and think you can't be as brave as you are here. That's where you need to be braver. Negotiate further, talk further, invite Albanians to dialogue, offer them absolute autonomy as you have offered them so far, but save the country at a time when Albanians will declare independence and when your EU friends will accept this independence. Save us, we're not punished for not knowing what's waiting for us for maybe a month, but I expect already after January 20th, because there's no reason to support one candidate anymore. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15072	The word is made by MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary club, and then by Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, I do not know, and I fear that many of those who participate in the work of today's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are not aware of what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, members of the Serbian people, are expecting from the state leadership for whom they voted in the elections. They expect a responsible relationship on this issue, expect us not to talk much about inter-party issues and the past, but about what will happen today and tomorrow about Kosovo and Metohija, what will happen to defending Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. I want to tell you at first, there is no motion for a resolution or any act that states that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia that the SPS will not vote for, regardless of what we think about those who propose it, whether we are in power or in opposition, because this is not a question of government and opposition, this is a question of relations with their country and their people. That's why we have to keep each other's accusations. Albania's policy on this matter is unique. And what kind of Serbian policy is this? Like any other, absolutely ununity. Ask every Albanian in Kosovo and Metohija what they want, what they want and what they fight for. They'll tell you clearly. Ask Serbian politicians what they stand for and what they fight for, you will not get a single answer. And I fear that sometimes we suffer what we deserve, precisely because of this Serbian disunity on the political scene. I already said, the SPS has a lot of objections to the text of the resolution. At first, I would just like to say, if I were a villain, I would say that this resolution today is kind of a verification of what the state leadership of Serbia was doing before 2000. Why? I'll tell you about Ramboi. I will not mention, I will read Rambui, which stands in Chapter 8 – three years after the entry into force of this agreement, an international meeting will be organised to establish a mechanism for Kosovo's final solution, based on the will of the people. I ask you, Mr. President of the Republic and Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and the head of the negotiating team, would you accept that formulation in the current text that someone would offer you? I'm sure you wouldn't. I wouldn't talk about what you said about this policy, but it doesn't take your opinion to change as to whether you're in power or in opposition, but you need to look at the essence of the problem. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has set before the bombing principles for the resolution of Kosovo and Metohija – political means and dialogue as the only time for a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, full respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia-Yugoslavia, full equality of all citizens, all national communities and ethnic groups in Kosovo and Metohija, without the possibility of any majorisation, solutions consistent with the Constitutions of Serbia and Yugoslavia and international standards in the field of human and civil rights and rights of members of national minorities. Kosovo and Metohija cannot gain the status of the Republic, but autonomy according to the highest international standards within Serbia and Yugoslavia. We do not accept any measure that would alter territorial integrity and sovereignty and try to separate Cosmet from Serbia. Is there anything you wouldn't sign? Is there anything you're not up for today? There isn't. We will support you as long as you defend Kosovo and Metohija, not because we support your government, but as much as we love this country and this people, Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. To the unity of the 1990s, what to talk about, Vuk Draskovic boasts in an interview in the Croatian newspaper, says he is responsible – if someone asks you why the response to mobilization was only 10%, then feel free to respond, it was because Vuk Draskovic and his SPO encouraged Serbian children not to respond to these calls or to leave the country, to run away from that terrible accident. [[Applause]] And you're talking about defending the state by all means. You have amnesty for those who have fled, and you want someone to send their children to defend southern Serbia? You wrote here with the right that Serbia's bombing was legally illegal, because it was without a UN Security Council decision, but you pardoned those who bombed this country and this people after 2000. So I think that if we were to go back in time, there would be a lot of reasons to say that Serbia can never lead a different policy than this towards Kosovo and Metohija, because the essence of the problem in Kosovo and Metohija is not the lack of human rights of Albanians, but the desire of Albanians to create their independent state. And it's been for centuries. We suggested, I suggested it to Minister Samardzic, that it go from Resolution 1244. Maybe it's awkward for someone. Resolution 1244 and the SPS criticised both sides. The SRS said it was a capitulation. You in DOS were saying that it was a crazy policy and that it was meant to accept everything, and today, both, and the other, and the third, and the fourth, you're only talking about Resolution 1244. So it's the only straw of salvation currently held by the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. It is not ideal, of course, but it is the result of fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. Since I see you have objections to that resolution, all in a row, and what I'm saying, I want you to fight only for what you've criticised. Now fight for the survival of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Many countries encourage Kosovo and Metohija's independence and threaten the Republic of Serbia by recognising this illegal act. Of course, I would just like to say that when you consider possible measures against these countries you must start from a simple fact, first stop opening up every Slovenian discount that opens in Serbia, it is opened by presidents, ministers, presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, they will first recognise Kosovo's independence and Metohija. On the other hand, Serbian businessmen cannot open anything in Slovenia. Next, you have the Republic of Serbia. Someone is trying to say that Kosovo and Metohija will be precedentd. So, we're just going to get that out of international law, and that principle is no longer going to apply. Then Russia won't recognise the Transnistria, we won't have Abkhazia, Ossetia, Catalonia, we won't have the Republic of Serbia. So that only applies to Kosovo and Metohija. Who says that? When international law collapses once -- there is no precedent. Therefore, Mr. President, both, gentlemen of the Ministers, why don't you say that if someone does not respect international agreements and international agreements, Serbia can recognise the independence of Republika Srpska. Is Serbia the only one in this world destined to exercise international law and set an example for the precedent? You are asking for a referendum on Republika Srpska's independence to be organised in Republika Srpska. What about Montenegro? Will your brother Montenegro, with whom you together, by the leadership of Montenegro, overthrow power in 2000, be one of the first to recognise Kosovo and Metohija independence? How will you react to them? Regardless of anyone's background, the reaction must be severe. It hurts the most when the first one betrays you and the first one hits the back of those who have four's' on their hat and, in any case, I invite you to take this question very seriously. The measures you're about to take must be said in advance, because those measures aim to deter them from it. If you're waiting for them to do it and then you're declaring something and you're doing it, there's no way out of it. Those measures will be empty, we'd better not take them after that, because we won't have any effect. Of course, stop talking more, when I was talking about ununity, I really ask the state leadership of Serbia to try to talk a little bit, not to talk to each other just at Parliament's sessions, as you sit next to each other. You, with your disunity in state leadership, are the greatest danger to national and state interest at the moment, because you will leave Serbia without authority at the moment when you do not know what you will do. And this time I repeat that Serbia should think about the government of national unity in these difficult moments, not because of someone entering or leaving the government, but because of the seriousness of the situation in which Serbia is. I am saying this because it is absolutely unacceptable that at a time when the entire state leadership is talking about all this, prosecutor Vukcevic says Ratko Mladic is in Serbia. What kind of knowledge is that? Is Ratko Mladic in Serbia? You're saying it's not. Does that prosecutor know where Ratko Young is? Why don't you call Mr. Jocic or I don't know who, who's after him right now, so he can get arrested? Why don't you arrest Vukcevic, because by declaring damage to national and state interests, because you convince the whole world he's not in Serbia, not me. I don't care, and if he were in Serbia, I wouldn't arrest him, but I'm sure he's not in Serbia, because if he were in Serbia, you'd have arrested him long ago. Anyway, I guess he's gone. As far as the wording of the resolution is concerned, I'd like to say that there's nothing controversial about it, which is unacceptable, but there aren't any of the things we think they should be. If this is a matter of tactics we don't dispute, but if the question is attitude, we think you should consider the situation very well. And what is meant by the particulars, which you have written, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is particularly obliged to act effectively in all circumstances to protect life and property, rights and freedom of the citizens of the province, especially the Serbian and non-Albanian population. What does that mean if you say you won't fight at the same time? I'm not talking about the war. What happens if there is a unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija independence, if there is an attack on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, their exodus, and KFOR will not react, will you react? What does this definition mean? In diplomacy or politics sometimes it's more important not to say than to say. If you're not going to say you're going to war, then don't say you won't war, because as America directly encourages Albanians by saying that it will recognise unilateral independence, by saying that you won't fight directly encourage those to declare Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. Now anyone else is saying that he's running a war policy. So what is this specific you've written here, I interpret it that way, if one man lives in Gracanica and there's an attack on him, you've committed to effective action to protect life and property, how will you react? Will you send him a telegram? Will you send someone to evacuate him from there? It is better and fairer to tell Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija – pack up and move to other parts of Serbia, we will not defend you. I don't want to get into the details of this resolution, I just want to say in the end that I think that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is more important than any other issue that currently concerns Serbia's political scene. Presidential elections are important. Of course it is important who will be president of Serbia, but believe me, the president of Serbia without a country does not have a major role in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. At this point, it seems more and more interested abroad and in the country who will be president of Serbia, whether the elections for the president of Serbia will be before or after the declaration of independence, because one of them fits before, one more fits afterwards. This is about how we should all work together to prevent Kosovo and Metohija's independence. In spite of that, once again, I repeat in the end, for who knows which time, I want to give thanks and recognition to all those who defended this country when it was against the law, as you wrote here, without a decision of the United Nations Security Council, attacked by those who and then wanted to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. You wrote here a text about military neutrality. We have 15 years in our program. Now that I've seen what you've written, I can honestly ask you -- well, that you've knocked us down for 2,000. A year?- I'm sorry. What's the difference between your attitudes and your SPS attitudes? But, well, everyone realizes he was wrong. [[Applause]] No matter what you have destroyed us, we support, you defend Kosovo and Metohija, it is more important than who is in power and who is in opposition. I would just remind you that only three years ago did you adopt a Resolution on European integration in the Serbian Parliament, which says you are going towards Euro-Atlantic integration. Here, now you've all concluded, both DS and DSS, military neutrality. It says here - military neutrality until the referendum. That's the same thing as our attitude. I thank you for coming to the position the SPS had from the very beginning. Our military neutrality, to be clear, refers to everything. We're friends with those who are our friends, but that means both military neutrality and our friends. It means military neutrality without blocks, without military forces, God forbid we have military bases of our army. We don't have military bases of our army, let alone some foreign armies in Serbia's territory. At the very end, I would like to give recognition to those of our citizens, Serbs, who, in spite of everything and after all and at dawn, announced unilateral acts of recognition of independence, stayed to live in Kosovo and Metohija. It's easy from here in Belgrade to talk about what moves we're going to make, but our actions depend on their fate. I would like to tell them that they are the first in the front lines of the fight for Serbia, and they are just asking us not to betray them in all this. Until you betray them, the SPS will be part of a single state policy in defence of Kosovo and Metohija. Because if there is no Kosovo and Metohija, there is no reason for all of you and our political party to exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15074	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. In accordance with Article 85 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, today we will work until the end of this agenda. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the LDP parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15075	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think it's a good thing that before me, as a representative of the LDP, the representatives of the government and the policy that this country's defence of Kosovo brought to war in 1999, from which we came out as a defeated society, destroyed the country, which was most clearly in the fact that in 1999 we lost the right to influence as a state in any way in the life of people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. It is good that before me, the representatives of the authorities who are trying to name the break today, in our opinion, have spoken of losing the right for the Serbs in Kosovo to stay there at all and live normally. I think this resolution is dishonest and it's not an accident. This resolution is like all previous resolutions on Kosovo, as well as all previous policies on Kosovo, conflicts, divisions and accidents, in fact, just an expression of the inability and unpreparedness of our society to change and the power to reorganise this country to accept the rules of life of the time you belong to. Mr. Kostunica, as difficult as it may be for you, you were, among other things, my presidential candidate in the 2000 elections. Then you symbolized ideas that are contrary to the ideas of Slobodan Milosevic. I remember very well the day in the election campaign where you spoke about Kosovo Mitrovica. You were then stoned by people who thought that this would help Milosevic, who could do more for them than you could. Today these people support you, and they would probably stone me and those I represent with the Liberal Democratic Party. This is the least important because it is the smallest similarity between the policy that was led in 1999 and 2000 and the one that is being led at this time. In 2000, Serbia chose the path on which this resolution points. In 2000, Serbia said it wants a European future and we are confident that citizens have the right to such a perspective. We have never asked you to sign Kosovo's independence, we have never accused you of what is the political legacy of the past, but we are asking you to withdraw this resolution. Because this resolution, as well as any other which is based on irrational views, cannot change the past for which you are not responsible, but it can destroy the future for which you and the President of the Republic and the ruling coalition and parliamentary majority behind this text are responsible. I'm sorry that you didn't have the courage to speak the language that this society would understand, that you as the bearers of the most important state functions, you, the President of the Republic and you, Mr. Kostunica, have turned your head in front of all these terrible divisions that are shaking our country at this moment, that you have ignored this devastating truth that points to the existence of forbidden cities in Serbia for people who think differently, that you didn't have the strength to send this simple but obviously difficult message to this country in which you would give every man in it the right to love Kosovo and Serbia as much as you love him, but that this love proves in a different way than that you try to do. I will analyse the point at the point of the motion for this resolution, but before that you were obliged to tell us why the negotiations were unsuccessful. Were they unsuccessful just because there was no other party in those negotiations that was ready to talk? During yesterday's consultations, which in our opinion were serious, with Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Samardzic, we agreed that the Albanian side had entered these negotiations without the desire to agree with the representatives of our country. Are we partly responsible for such a thing? You mention the support the world has given Albanians from Kosovo, but we have no answer to why all our historical allies, traditional friends, eventually even openly, France, have found much more understanding for Albanians from Kosovo and lost any kind of understanding for us here in Serbia? Mr. Kostunica, as the winner of the presidential election, you went to Bijaric in October 2000 and met with the heads of the European Union. You didn't go to Moscow first. You spoke to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, you did not speak first in Duma. What happened in the meantime so that for us, the European door, the door to the future of this country, remained closed or almost closed? And who's responsible for that? I'm sorry, but there is one feature that defines politicians in difficult times crucially, and that is, the willingness to take responsibility. I disagree with Mr Nikolic for nothing, but he is here as a representative of the party that has expressed a clear political position. From your ruling coalition, we have not received clear answers to questions that, according to us, pose threats to the future and interests of this country. Why is this resolution written like this, and what is behind it? It hides the same blackmails and the same ambitions and the same impotence and the same incompetence that marked the period of your negotiations with today's coalition partners on the formation of the Serbian government. This resolution is not an expression of the absolute and sincere beliefs behind which your ruling coalition stands. This resolution is an expression of the compromises that have been made, but some issues cannot be compromised. There can be no compromise between the past and the future, there can be no compromise between something that is reasonable and something that is unreasonable. How high is the price of this resolution? I'm sorry, President Tadic, for talking about this resolution in the presidential campaign. We were once in the same party, we were never particularly close, but I still believe that you, as a politician and as president of this Republic, wish this country the best. I don't doubt that. But you have made a big mistake by supporting political initiatives that are, in fact, the most insidious political blow to the ambitions of this society to exercise the right to full EU membership. It is not enough for your sense and confidence, which is probably present in your party, that one day you will be the one who will be more successful in the coalition struggles with your other coalition partner, so from the realization that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will be signed if it is proven to preserve the stability and sovereignty of this country, i.e. Her territorial integrity, draw the right to sign it. There are three basic principles that put an end to this European project, which, with great effort, has been achieved in this country for the past seven years. It's a bad thing that you're prejudiced against our European future in the prejudices of the NATO Pact. It is true that the NATO pact unlawfully bombed this country, but it is necessary to draw very clear conclusions. What is devastating is the inadequacy of our authorities to tell this society the truth. As difficult and contradictory as this truth may be, be assured that its burden is much easier than the burden of political fraud that will collapse on the back of citizens very quickly. There is nothing of our future in the EU unless we previously reform our security system in a way that is acceptable to the NATO Pact, which is actually an EU lobby. No country, from countries passing the transition in the areas of Eastern Europe, has become an EU member without full membership in the NATO Pact. The state of military neutrality to some fictitious referendum, which will be organised as has been organised and the referendum on the Constitution, which we are calling on today, is essentially so prolonged, in general, by the continuation of the concrete process of European integration of our country. On the other hand, we, through the thesis of military neutrality, demonstrate the belief that there is some other way than the one we have been dedicated to so far. It would be good to say which way, because we can't get out of this country without stepping into that NATO pact. Both Hungary and Romania, and Bulgaria, and in the year ahead Macedonia, Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, what is the value of this isolation to which we define ourselves with this solution? It's very often said here, in a rather vague way, but in fact a threatening way, about Western states that are a danger to our country's territorial integrity and integrity. These countries have their own name and they are organized. It is true that the United States no longer has an understanding for the negotiations, and it is true that the EU, through its presidency's decision, was announced on 14 December 2007, shows and hints at the same political views. So we have no problem with some Western countries, we have a problem with the EU, which we want to go to, we have a problem with the United States, with which we cannot find a common language, and we believe that by agreeing to make a polygon of Serbia for the accounts of Russia and America, in which they will not pay any price, and we are terrible, to realize some of our own interests. How did we get into these negotiations? With best intentions and it's not controversial, with a lot of hard work, it's also not controversial, but with a goal that's in vain, because it's in the past. This resolution is filled with political phrases and a language that marked Parliament's resolution before the war in 1999: unity, sovereignty, the fight for freedom and non-compliance under no conditions, and the payment of any price, and the West, and Russia, and all of this brings us together to a fundamental issue -- on which basis do we think that we are solving the crisis we are in, on which grounds do we think that we will get support for some new negotiations before the Security Council? This world, from which we expect it to understand us, is not ready to look at Serbia the way we view it ourselves. That way's not honest. It is true that Serbia lost Kosovo in 1999 and from that moment on, Kosovo is completely independent of Serbia, which can influence, to the extent and to the extent that the international community allows it to do so. It is true, Mr. Kostunica, that you signed a free trade agreement with the heads of state in the region, but also with a representative of Kosovo and Metohija. It was not an Albanian, it was a representative of the international community that manages Kosovo, but it wasn't you either, which is the most real proof of hypocrisy we recognize in conditions of signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Who will be punished by the Government and the parliamentary majority behind such a decision? Will the decision hurt the Kosovo Albanians, will Europe be unhappy because we, with all our qualities, do not join her or will the price be paid by people in this country? That's what we need to think about. When we analyse the text of your resolution, there is no courage in it to formulate in a clear way the policy that is present in the pride with which you perform when you talk about Kosovo. Come on, already, tell us, what does the phrase on reviewing diplomatic and all other relations with countries that eventually recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence mean? What does a sentence that suggests much, even though there is nothing concrete in it? What does it mean that Serbia will launch disputes before relevant international and national courts to protect sovereignty? In front of what international court? Is it possible that in front of one whose decisions we've never taken before? Is this the same International Court of Justice in The Hague whose verdict we did not pay attention to, even though an initiative was launched here in Parliament, and it is least important that we stand behind that resolution? Then we gave the Serbian Parliament an opportunity to show that this Serbia is different from the one tried on the bench of the International Court of Justice and it was not done. Today we don't have a foothold for one of these initiatives. That's what's devastating and what's bad. You must, in a very clear way, say that the Republic of Serbia will strengthen its constitutional powers in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, when every state official of this country crosses the border crossings between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, and you are representatives of the government that introduced the rules by which customs duties are charged at the border with Kosovo and Metohija. Who will tell this society the truth, if not the people who took responsibility for his fate. We have proposed a different resolution to Parliament and we think there is still room for it to be accepted. In the fact that you didn't vote against that resolution, we don't want to see you ignore that idea, although perhaps that's exactly what you thought when you abstained. We see a chance in that. This country must have a future that is better than the times that are behind us and what is happening in Serbia right now. We must return to reasonable political projects. These reasonable political projects have some of their standoffs, partly in Ahtisaari's plan, partly in ideas that have been launched in the meantime. We can now reason on the benefit of having the phrase "more than autonomy, less than independence" given a concrete meaning that occurs at the last moments of the negotiations, when it comes to Hong Kong or the Finnish islands in Sweden. But why in the end? Why not at first? Why did we not enter into these negotiations as a country that is willing to fulfil at least part of its international obligations, in order to have the understanding and support of the same international community. The Constitution cannot be the only foothold of our policy. Not because it is not the Constitution, it is in every reasonable society and every organised country, but this constitution called upon by the ruling coalition or parliamentary majority is not a constitution that serves us honor. I'm sure you know exactly how this constitution was brought in. It was written overnight and voted for it longer than it was discussed. We have no right to be angry with the world that violates our Constitution, because it is not bound by this constitution. We need to discuss the facts that describe us as a society that does not respect its Constitution. The constitution mentions human rights and civil liberties, sanctioning crimes, respect for public interest, fighting private and personal. The constitution makes it very clear how the state is financed, within which deadlines a constitutional court is elected, how the judiciary works. We have broken it all and thus taken away the importance and weight of this basic act, which regulates life in our country. We've voted twice, not against you, but against ideas whose only heirs you are. The idea failed to achieve the power it was, looking at it from the point of view of the results, much more effective than you. Milosevic won the SB Resolution 1244. You're not even able to do that much. The fate of every replica is that sooner or later it becomes obvious. Your policy is, in fact, the expression of personal impotence and unpreparedness for this country to change. Serbia can be ruled. We'll see how long. All those who ruled Serbia before you eventually left rejected and despised by society. We told you, Mr. President, that you are our only symbol of a democratic institution in society. It is neither government nor Parliament, because very often it has been undemocratic, it is you because you are an expression of the country's citizens' aspirations, by exhibiting and achieving exactly such democratic values. They're not in this resolution. Deny your support for this document, regardless of the fact that you have been blackmailed by support in the presidential elections or by the survival of the government, which has done nothing good in this country and has left behind no effective result so far. Do not bring country and society to think that this resolution is the price of support in the presidential campaign, which I know you know well that you will never get from those who promised you, blackmailing you until half the night, when this resolution was passed to us, we got it at 12:30, at midnight, document... (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... Who marcheth the future of the earth has a decisive influence on the fate of every man among us. We will continue to act politically, it is good that the presidential elections are ahead of us, it is good that this is being discussed in Parliament, and we expect you to send several important messages to society, that in Serbia everyone has the right to think differently, that everyone has the right to speak freely, that everyone has the right to promote their policy and to seek support for it and that you, as representatives of the authorities who came on the basis of the burned Parliament, will respect the elemental principle of free life. And the threats here are threats to which we will give an effective, quality response that will quickly follow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15076	Thank you. The word is Susan Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15077	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, dear ministers, this is the third resolution on the KIM we bring to this assembly building. From 1999 to today, no solution has been found to satisfy both sides, Serbian and Albanian, or a solution that would be equally unacceptable for the state of Serbia and the Albanian community in Kosovo. No compromise found. The compromise is in the politics of victory, not defeat. They couldn't find him any negotiators, from Marty Ahtisaari to Three. They concluded that it is impossible to reconcile two conflicting views, Albanian, which does not agree to anything other than independence and Serbian, which fits into anything but independence. The Albanian community insists on the current state of office, requires Kosovo's independence to be declared and thus unilaterally solves all problems. Serbia insists on respecting Resolution 1244, i.e. respect for the country's territorial integrity and integrity, with the greatest respect for all normative legal acts related to international law and the UN Charter. So these are the diametrically opposite attitudes that, practically, there will be no more talks, but probably no more compromises, not because Serbia does not want it, but because the Albanians do not want it, in which they are supported by parts of the international community. The draft assembly resolution said authorised representatives of the Republic of Serbia should continue their efforts to restore negotiations and find a solution in the spirit of international law. The international community's decision to make Kosovo an independence beyond Serbia's will would be a unique precedent in the history of the UN's existence. On the other hand, the independence of KIM would represent the achievement of Albania's dream of an independent state and a step closer to achieving the Greater Albania project. The eternal dream of Albanian extremists is at their fingertips this time. The will of the Albanian people to separate itself from Serbia is chauvinistic, racist and pointless, but the fact that the whole nation is behind it makes it significant and unspeakable. In all the negotiations so far, Serbia has offered different solutions and made more flexible proposals. Some here laughed at such suggestions, but since they offered nothing but empty words and criticism, no one took them seriously. It's easy to criticize, but it's hard to come by. We would like to give recognition to the Serbian negotiating team on this occasion for tenacity and patience, expertise and courage. They sat bravely across from murderers and criminals, who overnight became democratic leaders of Albanians, and proudly submitted to being put in the same line with them. Serbia has one interest in KiM that far exceeds all others. It is a question of more than a hundred thousand people in the area, members of people who consider Serbia a homeland, as well as a question of two hundred thousand Serbs who were exiled in the rest of Serbia in 1999. Since Serbia is unable to really and completely return to its state, no matter how much it wants it, then it is important that these people be given back, security and freedom. The international community of the sea, although it has not done so far, has absolutely and unreservedly supported the return of the refugee Serbs to its hearth. As for the text of the resolution that we are talking about today and which will be adopted at the end of this debate, for G17 plus is an unacceptable member of the 6th to which the National Assembly should decide on the declaration of military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. It is said in the text – military neutrality compared to existing military alliances. We ask the writers of this resolution to tell us how many military alliances there are in the world. We know about one -- the North Atlantic Alliance, and if another one shows up in the meantime, we ask that we get some information about it. This member is unacceptable to us because it immediately raises the question of whether Serbia has the capacity to have countries such as Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus, Finland, which are not members of NATO, but are neither militaryly neutral. Even those European countries, since the end of the Cold War so far, are being questioned whether they should remain militaryly neutral, and many of them in the Partnership for Peace programme work closely with NATOM, even in greater scope than the NATO member states themselves. They participate in all NATO peacekeeping missions, raise significant amounts of money, and this particularly highlights Switzerland and Austria, which also invest in joint research, investment and military technology in NATO. Therefore, the idea of Serbia's military neutrality, although legitimately, is part of a political programme of some political parties, where it does not deserve a place in this assembly resolution. For G17 plus, Euro-Atlantic integration is inseparable. It is true that joining NATO is not a prerequisite for EU membership. Such a formulation does not exist in any of the official documents concerning the EU, but part of the NATO criteria is consistent with the Copenhagen criteria for EU membership. A 1995 study of NATO enlargement defines the principles of democracy, human rights, market economy, as being resolved relations with neighbours as a prerequisite for NATO membership. This means that the values that must be achieved for NATO and EU membership are practically the same. We are wondering whether this position -- not NATO, and yet, not Europe, means breaking up so far signed agreements with NATO, including an air and land transit agreement between NATO troops through Serbia. Secondly, I ask the question of what point 'd' means, in which the National Assembly requires the Government that international agreements concluded by the Republic of Serbia, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, be in the function of preserving the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. This point doesn't mean anything. Why only one is listed for Serbia as the most important international contract, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Well, Serbia initialled the agreement, the government unanimously adopted it at its December 6th session. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was then decided to serve as a function of preserving the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Has anything changed in these last two weeks? It's not. That's why we think this is unnecessary too. Then, what about the previous contracts Serbia signed with the EU? What about the textile agreement? What about CEFTA, the Energy Community? Are we going to question them later, or have they met this criterion, or function? The paraphrasing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement confirmed the European Community's recorded readiness to make further efforts to bring Serbia institutionally in line with the EU's Economic and Political Regulatory Corps. What's the matter with those contracts? Well, one of these same members appears in all agreements, and it reads: this agreement will not apply in Kosovo, which is under the rule of the international administration, in accordance with Resolution 1244, since 10 June 1999. This is without prejudge of the current status of Kosovo or the determination of its final status under the same resolution. So, one of these same members is in all agreements that Serbia has so far either signed or initialled, as is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So this is a false dilemma for us, is Serbia forced to choose between Kosovo and the EU. It is simply not true, for G17 plus, we also choose Kosovo in Serbia and Serbia in the EU. In the last parliamentary elections, citizens have already voted for the European option and for the continuation of European integration. It is one of the five principles on which the ruling coalition rests. If anyone is going to change or throw that principle out, they're going to have to ask for citizens' support for something like that again. If we decide that we will not enter the EU because of the Union's relationship with the new KIM status, it will not really prevent anyone in the EU, any country, from making a decision on KIM's status. Serbia does not thus defend Kosovo, but is jeopardising the historic opportunity for generations to become an equal part of the most successful peace project and economic project in history. G17 Plus will always be on the side of those who defend Serbia's national interest. At this moment, accelerated European integration has no alternative. You don't have to be a European optimist to admit it, you can think all the worst about Brussels and bureaucracy, and about the policy of conditioning, but you can't distance the country from integration. EU accession support is around 70% of our citizens, and there is no party support, no politician. We were born in Europe, our ancestors were born in Europe, our children are born in Europe, so why are we not yet an EU member? Because the politicians of the previous period have isolated us from the rest of Europe. We must not repeat the mistakes of these politicians. When the European train once countered, without stopping through the Belgrade station, the question is when will next arrive. Of course, we are not satisfied that we are angry that some EU members do not understand our struggle to preserve the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Of course, it doesn't matter when someone threatens to take away part of your country, but not all European countries are inclined to support such a violation of international law. It is bad for the EU that there is no Union's single foreign policy, but at this point for Serbia good. The other day, the Romanian parliament brought a declaration that it would not recognise KIM's independence. They think alike in Greece, Spain, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Cyprus. I agree that these are not the EU's leading countries, but they are not insignificant either. On the other hand, we highly appreciate the support that Russia, China, India, Indonesia, many other non-European countries have been providing since the first day of our struggle to preserve sovereignty, but it would be very important, in our interest, to increase the number of EU member states that would support our efforts to preserve the integrity of the country. However, there is no way to achieve this if we declare that we do not want to join the EU or that we want to enter under our terms, which is not the case at all. We should lobby, work every day to increase the number of those member states that will realize that violations of international law are bad for themselves. But not only is EU foreign policy the reason we want to or will not enter the European Community, there are many other standards: in the economy, in the economy, in the environment, in the protection of human rights, in respect of basic freedoms, in agriculture. These are the standards that we, as a society, seek. These standards were created by the EU, we want to achieve them and reach them, to ensure a better life for all of our citizens. G17 plus believes that we must not delay signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as this is the first contractual relationship between Serbia and the EU. Every other decision is a loser, irrational, and out of spite. Inat may be the most famous Serbian brand, whose consequences we have and how we felt in not so long ago and even less famous, past. Inat can bring short-term profits, but it harms everyone on a long-term basis. We must have a rational goal in front of us and an objective knowledge of our own possibilities. In all important decisions, we must be guided by reason, not emotion. Reason requires that for Serbia, the European path is cemented by the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and emotions tell us otherwise. Just the reasonable majority of Serbia has managed to keep Serbia on track for economic and social reforms, on the path of peace and stability on the European path. Because of the huge support of the citizens of European integration, no one has the right, no party, no politician, to stop that path. In the end, so there is no confusion, the G17 plus will vote for this resolution. We fully support those parts of the resolution relating to the fight to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. But, on the other hand, these controversial parts, which are not acceptable to us and which I have listed, are written that everyone can interpret them as they please. We interpret them as a commitment to European integration. We will vote, not only because we are aware of the political and historical moment in which Serbia is located, but, above all, because of the few remaining Serbs at KIM and many more of those Serbs who have fled to other parts of Serbia and who, here, tonight, expect at least a minimum of unity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15078	The word is Pastor Balint, head of the minority parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15079	The President-in-Office of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SVM, the text of the proposed resolution is unacceptable and I must say this at the outset, because I have heard on certain media that minority parties will vote for this resolution. Once again, I would like to repeat that the proposed text of the resolution is absolutely unacceptable for SVM. Unacceptable for several reasons. It is unacceptable because there is a lack of honesty, reality and state wisdom in the resolution. In addition, we believe that certain formulations of the motion for a resolution are not in line with the diplomatic dictionary. Unfortunately, that's what I had to say in February, and I had to say it in July, but it's current and now that we're discussing this latest resolution of the National Assembly. We said that in July, and now I have to say, the text is vague, in many places vague, and therefore dangerous, because it allows all kinds of interpretations, and that's not good. Besides this, I have to say that SVM was never for threats, for self-insulation, for strengthening relations with the world, for strengthening relations with everyone. For SVM, it is unacceptable and we absolutely oppose any armed conflict, i.e. Using the military and breaking diplomatic relations with any country in the world. Since the founding, we have insisted on a peaceful solution to all misunderstandings and conflicts, political means with dialogue and respect for the interests of both the majority and minorities in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, the motion for this resolution is stronger than the previous resolutions. Does this resolution mean, or can it mean the use of the military, whether it can mean breaking diplomatic relations with any country in the world, which is absolutely unacceptable for SVM? So, for all these reasons, we can't support the proposed resolution, but we won't vote against the resolution for two reasons either. The first is that we were restrained both in February and in July, and in the meantime there were no new circumstances, so there is no reason for us to change our attitude. So we'll be held back on this occasion. And more importantly, despite the fact that the proposal for a text resolution is absolutely unacceptable to SVM, we will not vote against it because we accept the title of the motion for a resolution. This resolution bears the title: Resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. If we voted against this resolution, there would be a real danger of someone knowingly interpreting it as an attitude that SVM or the duchy Hungarians is against Serbia's sovereignty, against territorial integrity and against constitutional order. That is the main reason why we will be abstained from voting against this resolution, regardless of the lack of honesty and reality in this resolution. The text of the resolution is unacceptable to us and because it practically does not say a single word about how the Republic of Serbia will protect Serbs, Roma, as well as the rest of the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. There are almost no words about how this state in Kosovo and Metohija will protect the property and religious facilities of Serbs, Roma and other residents of Kosovo and Metohija that do not belong to the Albanian nation. We don't think that's good. I'd like to say a few sentences and a concrete text of the resolution. For example, in the motion for a resolution, we have a formulation – the international agreements that the Republic of Serbia concludes must be in the function of preserving sovereignty. We don't understand what this formulation means. On the other hand, in addition to all the agreements concluded should be a function of preserving sovereignty, the SVM simply believes that these agreements should also be in the function of a better life for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the role of adopting the European system of values, in the role of approaching the EU. So, for us, it is unacceptable that the sole objective of signing and ratifying all international agreements is to preserve sovereignty. In addition, there is a formulation that the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, is a priority of state institutions and all public actors in the country. It is natural that it is a priority, and it is normal that it is a priority, but the problem is that it is already a long series of months and years the only priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which we find inadmissible. And in July, I said that it's good that the state has been making exceptional diplomatic efforts to preserve territorial integrity for years. But it's not good that this topic has been the only one who's been paying enough attention for years. I have already appealed in July, and I now urge the government to commit as vigorously and unwaveringly to attracting investment, creating new jobs, improving the social security of all citizens. That's not happening, unfortunately. In July, I said it was a good thing there was a formula in that resolution that the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija had legitimate interests. Of course there is. I said in July, I say now, that besides the Albanian community in Kosovo and Metohija, both Hungarian and Bosniak and Roma and Bulgarian and Romanian, as well as all other national communities have legitimate interests throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia where these national communities live. It is not good that the state and government of the Republic of Serbia want to commit itself exclusively to solving the problem of the Albanian national community in the Republic of Serbia. I have repeatedly said that in the Republic of Serbia one third of the population are members of national minorities, so it would be good for the government to address and address the problems of other national communities living in Vojvodina, in central and southern Serbia, in Kosovo and Metohija. The resolution, unfortunately, left out the formulation that the Albanian national community in Kosovo and Metohija has legitimate interests. I hope that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not changed its mind and I hope that the government still believes that the Albanian national community has legitimate interests, but these legitimate interests have other national communities throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now, of course, I am not going to talk about which issues are unresolved, not unresolved, but unresolved issues of the national community of Hungarians, which we have spoken about many times, is not the subject now, but it would be good for the government to commit itself to solving these problems, as well as the problems of other national communities. The motion for a resolution also contains the following formula – KiM will be considered an integral part of the Republic of Serbia until a compromise solution is found. I simply do not understand this sentence, because it is not clear exactly what is going to happen, how and how KIM will be considered to be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It also writes, perhaps the government considers it specific, that the Serbian government is obliged to adopt a concrete and comprehensive plan of measures to be taken in all areas of its competence in the event of the illegal declaration of independence of KIM. The problem is, even the MPs can't know, and they don't know what the measures are. We know that all ministries were obliged to prepare these measures and action plans, but we do not know what these measures are and what action plans are. In addition, it writes the following -- the government commits itself to applying more effectively the constitutional powers of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo, and in particular to protect life and property, rights and freedoms of the province's citizens, especially the Serbian and non-Albanian population. I would like to ask a question, although this is, I suppose, just a rhetorical question, because there is no way I can get an answer: What are the constitutional powers of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija after 1999? In addition to the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, what are the specific powers of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija? The next question: what is the budget of the Republic of Serbia regarding income from the territory of the Autonomous province of KIM, when the Republic of Serbia picked up one single dinar on KIM after 1999, and perhaps that situation has lasted for 15-20 years? What kind of jurisdiction are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen, in this resolution? This is why I said that the text of the resolution is dishonest and unrealistic, because practically, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia in KIM has no real competences since 1999. In addition, the resolution also contains a provision to specifically review the diplomatic and all other relations of the Republic of Serbia with countries that eventually recognise the independence of KIM. It is absolutely unacceptable for the Union of Duchy Hungarians. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that certain provisions of this resolution were not in line with the modern language of diplomacy. This provision has been formulated in line with the dictionary of diplomacy, as it does not say that we will break diplomatic relations, but says we will review diplomatic and all other relations with countries that eventually recognise independent Kosovo. But that means, in Serbian, clearly, that we will end diplomatic relations and that is unacceptable for SVM. As for the use of the military, I said in the National Assembly in the debate, when the Assembly discussed the proposal for a defence law and the proposal for a law on the military, that we were very pleased with the statement by Mr Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, from a few weeks ago, when he said that Serbia would not fight while he was president of the Republic. That made us very happy. But unfortunately, in the assembly debate, I couldn't hear it from the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Sutanovac, no matter what I asked three or four times. But it means a lot to us that the President of the Republic said, we trust him, but we don't understand why it's not written in the resolution. In the end, I would like to say that it is unacceptable for us and that the resolution says that the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia is declared to be possible to call a referendum. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians advocates the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Serbia. We have been pushing for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to NATO from the beginning. We know that one party that has changed its view in the government, or attitude towards NATO, and we can see from this resolution that all ruling parties have changed their views and attitude towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however they will vote on this resolution. It is clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that all parties in power in the Republic of Serbia oppose the accession of the Republic of Serbia to NATO. It is also clear from this pay phone that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is pushing for the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union and for joining NATO. I would like to repeat, that for all these reasons, we cannot vote for the text of the resolution, that we will be abstained and we will look with a dose of concern at the fact that the resolutions of the National Assembly are getting sharper and sharper, and we look forward to the next resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to say, since I said what we do not support and what is the problem with this SVM proposal, I would like to read only three sentences from the candidate programme for the president of the Republic of SVM, the Democratic Party of the Duchy Hungarians and the DZ of the duchy Hungarians, Mr. Istvan Pastor. The programme, paragraph 3, reads: "A peaceful settlement of Kosovo and Metohija issues. The final solution to the AP KIM status is the common interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The best way to address the issue of the province's final status would be to negotiate. The basic precondition for the stay of the non-Albanian population in the given area is territorial autonomy on an ethnic basis. If during the negotiations on the southern province's final status in the field of the protection of the right and freedom of national minorities, favourable solutions are created which are currently not applied in other areas of Serbia, these rights adapted to the existing conditions should be guaranteed to all national communities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia." It is written in the programme of Mr Istvan Pastor, the presidential candidate of the duchy Hungarians, and this is the SVM's position on Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15080	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has been made by MP Nenad Canak, president of the Vojvodjan Group of MPs. I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by a delegation of the Association of Families of the kidnapped, captured and killed in Kosovo and Metohija since 1998.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15081	Since I'm a representative of a parliamentary group that's one of the few who doesn't have a presidential candidate, then I don't need to give an election speech, so I can speak what I think. First of all, the complete problem we are facing regarding Kosovo and Metohija has now entered its final stage. This, I believe, is, if not the last, one of the last declarations, the resolution, whatever you want to call it, about Kosovo being brought into this assembly. The reason I would not define now, I will say later, but if Mr Micunovic, present here, voted for nine different resolutions so far, and is not the oldest in this parliament, then think about how many times this subject has been talked about and how many times it has been said that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia, that Kosovo is more important than anything else, so to the poetic statements of the type – Kosovo is the most expensive Serbian word. I'd like to remind you that it's a complete negotiation, I'd say even a farce, I go, it only happens for two words. On the Serbian side, that was the word sovereignty, on the Kosovo side it was the word independence. The two words were what delegations could not agree on, how to avoid both at the same time or both uses. I would have noticed that this is cheating on people in both Kosovo and the rest of Serbia, for a clear reason why it is to talk about Kosovo's independence completely funny, because there are foreign troops on Kosovo territory that will be there for many years longer, and no country is independent, when there is a foreign army in its territory and when it is under international protection. On the other hand, when we talk about Serbia and its sovereignty, it is only that that makes everyone seriously think about it, for a clear reason that Serbia does not manage their territory without Kosovo by capitulating in the 1999 war and signing a capitulation, which I took after myself so as not to improvise, which is called a military-technical agreement between the international security forces and the SRJ government and the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you what it says. It says here: By establishing a permanent ceasefire of hostilities, under no conditions will the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia enter, re-enter, or remain in the territory of Kosovo or the Land Safety Zone, or the Air Safety Zone, as described in Article 1, paragraph 3, without prior express consent of KFOR's commanders – five kilometers in the depth of Serbia's territory and 25km in the airspace, Serbia is not sovereign. So much for the sovereignty of Serbia that we are talking about here. Serbia's capitulation in 1999 and the loss of Kosovo by war, it was only a continuation in 1912 when Serbia won Kosovo by war. This is what historians say: Kosovo was won by Balkan wars in 1912 and 1913. At a peace conference in Bucharest, large forces were not represented at all, unlike the Berlin Congress, which was practically organised only by large forces. The recognition of Kosovo's accession to Serbia was essentially indirect, as Serbia was recognised and later Yugoslavia, treated as a sovereign state. An explicit recognition of Kosovo's accession to Serbia has never followed. So what we're talking about here is exclusively for pre-election purposes and overvote in patriotism, and that's patriotism until the last drop of other people's blood. Why, if we talk about it, no one remembers that Kosovo was first recognised by the current government by the constitutional law, which was passed after the adoption of the Constitution, this Constitution of 2006, which the citizens of Vojvodina did not confirm by the referendum, this Constitution in the Constitutional Law, i.e. the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution clearly states that elections in Kosovo are being held – when... Never! It does not say that they are being held in Kosovo, even when conditions are being obtained, which would be a fundamental measure for the state of Serbia to determine according to that part of its territory. On the other hand, Professor Dr Kostunica Vojislav admitted Kosovo by not offering Serbia a guarantee for Hague indictee Ramush Haradinaj. Why? Because we have, on the one hand, the Serbian Constitution that speaks of Serbia as the state of Serbs, Serbian people and all citizens, and in this resolution that we are now talking about, we have clearly written that it is necessary to discuss the security of the non-Albanian population and the Serb people in Kosovo. The non-Albanian population is not a constitutional category. So here we deal with the harsh violations of the Constitution, we deal with arbitrary interpretation of the country's highest act for the purpose of pre-election and strengthening nationalist tensions. On the other hand, the proposal for this resolution clearly states that Article 1 – the main reason for obstruction is in the view of some Western states that Kosovo should gain independence. In light of this attitude of the Western states, I repeat Western states, there was no real incentive, etc. Another thing, the National Assembly finds some Western states strongly opposed the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, etc. I'll remind you of one important thing. One of the countries most favouring Kosovo's independence is Japan. Japan is not western, it's the Eastern state or it's a very Western state, but it doesn't belong to the Western states in the narrow sense of that word. The reason he insists on Western states is that he is trying to re-produce the block divide of the world in which Serbia would push itself into the hands of Russia, which is currently playing an explicitly imperial role and trying to expand its international field of interest on Serbia, that, as one of my respected predecessors said, we will be a cold war polygon, which will be a playground for large, and a disaster for small ones. And that's what we can't allow. When it comes to a referendum on anything, I came to the conclusion, it would not be bad to remind you of the decision of the First Regular Session of this same Assembly in 1998, held on 7 April, where a decision was taken to call a Republic referendum on which the question was: "Do you accept the participation of foreign representatives in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija". That was nine years ago. This is the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia since 24 April 1998, with conclusions on what happened at the referendum. The following happened: of the 7,252,304 eligible citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 5,297,776, and 73,05%, respectively. The answer is yes, 180,692 voters, i.e. 3.41%), and no, we do not want anyone in Kosovo and Metohija to attend, gave 5,017,383 voters, or 94,73%. My question is – should we reorganize an expensive referendum to get more or less of the same data? Do we need a referendum to get the citizens to say no again? We won't. And that, as last time, as in the past 10 times when it was talked about Kosovo in this same assembly, in the SRJ Assembly, in the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, that we are again confirmed that we are against, but here, big ones are not giving us. And simply, it comes to a simple conclusion. I have Resolution 1244 here, I don't want to bother you. First and foremost, everything that has been signed with the EU does not apply to Kosovo, for the simple reason, which is part of the introductory clause, in any case, each agreement, and it is said that the agreement will not apply in Kosovo which is currently under the international administration under Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. the year, without prejudge of Kosovo's future status. In other words, everything this country has done in its accession, stabilisation, movement towards the European Union has been done without Kosovo and Metohija. In other words, all that we have in the Resolution serves for pre-election purposes and more or less should not be observed. That is why the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina gave its motion for a resolution, because it is clear that this text cannot survive, and then it is changing and said as you have received, but the main change is that, if the problem is how to solve the issue of the monastery in Kosovo, cultural heritage, how to solve the problem of the continuity of Serbia, the answer is very simple, let's see what is an internationally comparable model, whether it is the Icelandic Islands, whether it is Hong Kong, I would not say. The only parallel is the Vatican. In 1929, with an agreement with Italy, the Vatican became a state, and for this reason, to create a state in Kosovo's territory that, by the model of the Vatican, would have all the prerogatives of statehood, to move the headquarters of the Serbian Orthodox Church to the Peck Patriarchy, would have made such an international entity much easier to relations between Kosovo and Serbia. That's the only way to get out of the dead end we've been brought to. If this is not done, Kosovo will be independent for the next few months, the patriots will call on other people's children to war, and we will be in a position not to get out of the trap that someone else has introduced us to again. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will therefore not support the proposed resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15082	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia – Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15083	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in this home, fortunately for all of us, are establishing a state policy of Serbia. This is, therefore, not the ninth time, but the fourth time that there is something called a resultant state policy achieved by a relative majority when it comes to the consent of the government and the opposition and when it comes to state policy. So it started on 21 November 2005 and continues today. As the first resolution outlined Serbia's state policy had practically not changed until today, there was a need for new resolutions to be adopted, in line with or because of the needs that have arisen, taking into account the different circumstances we have found ourselves in, above all, international circumstances. Unfortunately, we cannot live outside the world and our fate will ultimately depend and depend on our ability to be able to lead a good international policy and find the right place for Serbia in this. This resolution brings, practically, only a few newspapers compared to the previous ones. This newspaper concerns, above all, those announcements or threats that we are facing today – when it comes to the announcements coming from the State Department, about the announcements that come from Kosovo and Metohija itself from politically organised Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to unilateral declaration of independence, from America, when it comes to recognition of such declared independence and, unfortunately, these dangers come from the good part of the countries that are members of the European Union, which in a certain way, because of certain interests, obviously think that it would be good to be with American politics in this case and possibly go to the recognition of the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, all of course, contrary to the principles of international law, everything that each of these countries would want to happen to it, and probably to someone else. I don't have to go into history the way it happened, we've talked about it a thousand times already, but what I'd like to point out here, and hearing our previous conversators, the heads of other parliamentary groups, that's simply next. I can accept and should accept that the opposition in Parliament, since this resolution has been brought first and foremost before you by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supported by the parliamentary majority, can and should object to the acts brought by the Government, to find some objections and to ask a number of questions, and when they are asked in order to be concerned whether the government or the ruling majority corresponds to the needs of state interests, people and citizens, is something I can accept, I can oppose, I can give, or that one of us, to explain what is not clear here. What I find difficult to accept, however, is that, fortunately, the minor opposition in this House is performing against the state policy and state interests. After all, someone will say it's a political subjective thing, that we can look at it differently, that's true, but I have a lot of right to disagree. I'll tell you why. There's been a few questions asked here. First of all, the importance of this text is not to protect the state interest as abstract forms, but primarily to protect people's lives, because life is not just about taking air, food, drink and sleep. Life is a much more complex phenomenon, consisting of thinking and different emotions, from hate to love, from relationships to certain things that people can view as sacred, from relationships between people as such, friends, relationships with a girl, to a boyfriend, to a husband, to a brother or sister, to a home, to a hearth, to something we inherited, and to what we care deeply about. And I've heard of cases, they used to happen, that some people killed themselves because expropriation was taken from their homes, expropriation meant just compensation and moving, because they were used to living in their old family home and couldn't stand that moment. I'm not sure that they could easily declare such people simply crazy, just because they did it. So life is a very complex phenomenon. Of course, first of all, we are concerned about the lives of people, because people do not live in an airless space or anywhere, but live in some territory, live in some villages, cities, in some of their apartments and homes, are bound, especially the elderly among us, to cemeteries that often visit to light a candle, or in some other way to bow down to the shadows of those who are no longer with them. It's just impossible for him to have no respect for those elements of life. Is it possible to view life only mechanically? We're not people of plants, we have something else in it. So what's reasonable for someone else is unreasonable, it's probably completely unreasonable to die, to come out on a bullet. It is unreasonable to do yourself any physical pain or damage, and someone else thinks it may be reasonable to do so if a person puts himself in danger to save his neighbor, to defend such a person, if not another greater value, at least as he observes it. So that's where we can differ. What I understand, but I can't accept, is that there are human fears. I can understand that people are afraid for their existence, I can understand that there are such politicians and they run such a political campaign, such a program that that fear is trying to spread, but I don't have to accept it. My standards of life, the standards of life of some of us, don't have to match others, and I don't have to accept that. When it comes to what position we are in, when it comes to how much we can earn or get the support of others for ours, in this house established by the vast majority of votes, I think it will be the case now, national and state policy of Serbia, then we need to ask one more question and that would end it. Are we aware that the measure in which others will respect us and try to help us is an equivalent measure in which we are willing to respect ourselves, in which we are ready to be unique in protecting what we consider to be a state interest? Whenever there's a crack in it, everyone who thinks that this interest doesn't matter to them the way we see it or thinks it's supposed to satisfy some other person's interest in this space, they're going to try to spread it. As much as we show unity, we'll have so much trouble achieving all these goals. Someone said they're protecting us from one part of the world, and it's unnatural not to be protected by someone else, France at the moment, etc. The answer to that question is simple. It would probably have protected France too if this country had the strength to always point out in a very clear, simple and ghastly way what its ultimate goal is. I'll give you a very simple illustration of this. I had a recent opportunity to speak to someone, not so insignificant, the MPs of the Russian Federation, who asked me a very simple question a few months ago – are you sure you're unique in what you're saying? If it is and if there is an extremely large, solid, most of it supports what you have shown us as your essential interest, Russia can stand behind you. If that's not the case, then there's nothing to do with that job. It is clear that some EU member states have at the moment some other interests that, of course, often intertwine with the interests of the United States, which obviously have an extremely large impact on individual EU members. I know that there is no excessive emotion here, and I know that individual EU members, especially those leading, unfortunately, will define and define themselves in their foreign policy mainly according to the views of the United States, i.e. Not wanting to get into a senseless confrontation. But I wouldn't always, exclusively, blame them for it. This home, this congregation, this people, which has been represented through all of us here, has an obligation to remove this danger from themselves. In these relationships, there are no emotions, I agree, but we have to respect our emotional life, we have to respect the fact that we don't live on Mars or non-existent space, or in some territory, but we have to respect the fact, as someone said, that we're all really equal in rights. If that's true, then I guess those rights are equal to us and all those citizens who live in Kosovo and Metohija, first and foremost all those who want to live in one country with all of us, and those who think or maybe believe that they don't, and they should eventually understand that they can be part of one Corps. So I think this resolution should be supported and I think it would be a great shame if at this point again, as it may have once been the case, it didn't show state unity in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15084	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. We're going to report in a order of MPs. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15085	Dear ladies and gentlemen, although the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a single position on Roma integration, regardless of what some ministries, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, which makes a significant contribution to this, with 100 million dinars on Roma issues, on displaced and refugee issues, have ministries that would have to do so, unfortunately they do not, and they do not want to put their calendar of activities seriously – the Roma Party will vote in favour of this resolution. For us, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not a question of day-to-day competitions, it is not a question of positioning on Serbia's political scene, for the Roma Party, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and our position on the issue is a democratic issue, the responsibility of the Roma towards Serbia and the response of the Roma national community to the policy that has been taking place in Serbia towards the Roma for many years back. In this context, I would like to say that a large number of refugees from Kosovo, and this is, among other things, about 50,000 Roma who have found their refuge in the territory of the part of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the fact that these Serbian citizens from Kosovo have come to other parts of Serbia talking about their trust in this government. I also want to say that we are not satisfied with the results of the negotiations in which a different future is defined, precisely for members of the Roma national community who have avoided and left Kosovo. Nothing more significant has happened months ago, or over the course of this year as long as the negotiations take place. We think that the negotiating team would have to focus more significantly on the role and the issue, because without resolving this issue, without resolving the situation of members of the Roma national community, we cannot say that we have given an adequate answer, a civilization response that is needed today, not only in Serbia but also in Europe. We believe that the EU has great responsibility in this process. It is unacceptable for the EU to ask Serbia to sign a readmission contract that will bring back Serbian citizens, over 100,000, and of which about 50,000 Roma, without a clear perspective and a future, and a large number of these citizens are Roma from Kosovo and Metohija. It is not justified, therefore, that Europe is returning those people to those parts of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, that they are integrated here, that Serbia stands out for the integration of these citizens, and on the other hand, part of that territory where their houses remain, where a large number of their houses have been torn down, where they cannot return, that this part of the territory is secededed from Serbia and that these people, by returning to Serbia, live in the greatest misery. That's what I'd end up with. I therefore expect the negotiating team to seriously ask the question of minorities that lead from Kosovo to Serbia, to ask a serious question and Roma integration. Once again, I want to underline, this is not our response to the activities of the entire government on Roma integration. This is what I am obliged to say to the voters of the Roma Party, this is the answer to our relationship with Serbia, to our relationship with key state issues which have now been reached by Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15086	Thank you, Mr. Shane. The word of the People's Messenger is Zvonimir Stević, then Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15087	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the State, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want this time to express my protest and dissatisfaction because after six months we're talking about Kosovo and Metohija, which I don't think is good, we're talking about the resolution, about the report. I ask you, as top state officials, when will this legislature discuss the state of Serbs and non-Albanians in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and the threat of their rights? You have unity over the signed resolution and this text, but you have no unity, you have two or three governments when it comes to solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. I'll talk about it later. Second, gentlemen, masks are falling. When you look at this hall and the number of MPs and ministers present, you see clearly how much you care and how much you care for Kosovo and Metohija. The Socialists are here, and part of the convention is our presidential candidate, Comrade Mrkonjic. The current state and position of the Serbian people and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, following failed negotiations on the future status of the southern Serbian province and frequent indications of a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, is dramatic. The finals of the Kosovo and Metohija status resolution will take place in the coming days and months, although it could be said that the two sides were not even there. I believe that we can never and in no way reconcile with the attempt to take part of our territory, in which the active and extremely aggressive role of the United States and some European countries, which are also the holders of the scenarios adhered to by the Albanian negotiating team, requires that this assembly, in a very unequivocal and extremely clear way, confirm this determination of ours. Why am I undermining this, knowing that we have already achieved almost complete unity? It is not disputed that we in the SPS support the attempt to find a compromise and we believe that neither of the negotiating sides can fully represent their views. But in a situation where the Albanian negotiating team has dug into its trenches and remains on the stand of independence and nothing else, the question is whether our negotiating team acted on the line of our demands for full preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. The answer is no, entirely with our basic requirement that Kosovo is part of Serbia and that this is the basic line of demarcation for possible concessions from the other side. I'm not sure that some statements, including some possible proposals, have been advocating some of our officials that no other Albanian state can be created on the territory of the Serbian state. The requirements of the Albanian sides are in line with the interests of the United States to impose some solutions, so it would also be considered that the two countries negotiating, the proposal on the case of the two Germanys, and the possibility of limited or supervised independence, for us and the SPS, is extremely unacceptable. It is not and can not only be our party request, but it is the real interest of the Serbian state, and it is the only mandate that has been given to our negotiating team. That is why I am not convinced that all of our efforts and references to Hong Kong, Tyrol, Holland Islands have been consistent, because it is no doubt beyond the mandate that the Serbian Parliament has given to our negotiating team, under which the status solution would be based exclusively on the functional and essential autonomy of the province of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. I wonder why some of the proposals offered by our officials included elements that involve Kosovo's statehood. This is not acceptable for the SPS and there is no basis in Resolution SB 1244, which is our only true basis and is based on international law. We rely only on that resolution today, although so many ugly words have been spoken of since 1999, such as betrayal, surrender, I don't know what else we don't know, so that today our resolutions are officially held as sacred letters. In addition, the strong support provided by Russia in this direction is extremely principled, and this support is based on a resolution that stems from the essence of international law. Therefore, the insistence that the status issue is solely in UN jurisdiction must be both the starting point and our final destination. The statements and threats referred to by the leaders of some countries of the world, such as French President Sarkozy, which grants the mandate of the Security Council and offers some compensation – Europe for Kosovo, the signing of the Association Agreement, or the pawning of American Fried that it cannot be a status quo and that it is time for Kosovo's independence, are extremely unwitting. In the resolution that we need to adopt today, we need to give a clear answer to these demands, and the answer has to be that we refuse these plantings, because they're cutting off a part of our organism, which we can't reconcile with. Therefore, here, I want to make it clear that we can support the pledge that Serbia can enter the EU only as a comprehensive and sovereign state, with Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. Several remarks on the state of play in Kosovo and Metohija, and how everything that is happening now reflects on Serbs in the province and displaced. More and more frequent pressures and threats sent by Kosovo's provisional institutions and their leaders, primarily by announcements of a unilateral declaration of independence. It is now marked as day 'd' on February 6, 2008. So, the presidential elections should pass, so that the already prepared scenario of independence is revealed, and these days from Thaci's party we hear demands that Kosovo be immediately joined, referendumally, Albania. So there's a scenario on the scene that goes from the formation of the Prizren League to today. On the other hand, Serbs are dissatisfied with the effects of the state of Serbia and its institutions on Cosmet. The fact is that significant budgets for Kosovo and Metohija are being invested and spent, but it is necessary to see if this is necessary in terms of justice and social needs. Why is there no control over the spending of funds, who and how does it decide? The position of the Serb people in Cosmet and displaced people living in collective centres, in difficult conditions throughout Serbia, cannot be seen through the prism of the interests of the ruling coalition's parties. There are no databases, valid social maps, no new jobs for generations of newly created high school students, no strong state initiative to prevent the mass and aggressive purchase of Serbian property and entire rural and strategic important land complexes. Here, gentlemen, how you do after seven years in power. In "Evening News" since 6.12.2007, the portfolio-free minister, Mr. Gilas says, "A hundred times as much assistance to Kosovo". We are not incapable of you sending us help, but another finding is recognised here that is very dangerous, which lurks from the end and warns that you are pushing the division of Kosovo on a small door in secret. Here's what Mr. Minister says: "The government of Serbia's budget is projected to allocate 2.2 billion dinars to improve the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which is hundreds of times more than one year ago. Projects from infrastructure, education, health care, will be funded and strictly controlled under the pre-determined rule. The most projects will be implemented in Serbian enclaves south of Ibra, given that up until now most of the funds have gone to northern Cosmet, so we must be realistic and admit that there is much better living than in enclaves," Dragan Gilas, minister without portfolio in the Serbian government, told "News". You didn't have a strategy or you didn't want to, we warned you in good time to take care of the specificities of the people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. President of the State, Prime Minister, do you know how your people live? Do you know that the Serbian and non-Albanian people are in the dark, without elemental conditions? I have to tell you, I don't think you know. Why? Your individual associates treat you, according to the state, towards the people of Serbia, especially the people of Kosovo and Metohija, bring us into confusion and complicate life in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, as was the case for some human change, and now one part of the government is seeking to make the handover, and the other part is not to be handed over, as if all the problems in Kosovo and Metohija were resolved and there are still such issues left. The calling of presidential elections now, when a crucial battle is being fought to resolve Kosovo's status and Metohija's status, is a non-road move, as the issue of Kosovo and Metohija has been pushed into another plan, which, by no means, by those who have taken this step, cannot be responsible and a state-of-the-art decision. No party and personal interests can be given priority over this, by the people and the state, by a fateful and important question. The "Blic" of December 5th -- a decision on Kosovo after the elections in Serbia, said: "Kosovo and Metohija should not be questioned by the democratic and European perspective of Serbia, the position of several leading EU members, for whom the presidential elections in Serbia play an important role in deciding when the EU should take appropriate steps to address the Kosovo crisis." According to Blica, if elections in Serbia were scheduled by the end of January for a state such as Germany, France, Italy or Slovakia, they would insist on delaying Kosovo's independence, i.e. to go to the option of delaying the co-ordinated declaration of independence of Kosovo. That implies -- let the peoples of the Serbian state go to the election, as the president's choice, as a reward, conditionally, you will get an independent Kosovo. And I wonder, the newly elected president, regardless of his name, has a constitutional obligation to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, or he will defend, or he will have to resign. Finally, I ask myself again – what is the concern of the people of Serbia and non-Albanian in KIM, because the constitutional obligation of the president and the government and this assembly is to protect the territorial integrity and integrity of state territory. That is why I am obliged to repeat on behalf of the SPS, that Serbia is in a serious crisis and that all political factors must be uniquely done, but precisely, to defend KIM. There is no more important national and national task. The government of national unity would be, in our opinion, the best solution, because the moment is when, because of the crisis we are in, all relevant political entities must participate in its resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15088	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The People's Messenger Alexander Marton has the word, then Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15089	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the State, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MPs and MPs, LSV MPs, as you have just heard from the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Nenada Canka, will not support the motion for this resolution. We believe that it is very inconclusive that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the most legislative body and as one of the most important levers of government in the Republic of Serbia, participates in efforts to solve the KIM problem. The ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, then all those involved in the negotiation process in any way, did not take a single step to meet the MPs in good time, I repeat, the highest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, with the current position in which the negotiations are held. The very way the wording of the resolution was made is very unserious. It waited days for the two parties of the ruling coalition, DS and DSS, to reach a solution to the text of the resolution. And what did we have a chance to see? Blackmails, threats by denying support for the presidential candidate and, of course, chronic dishonesty towards each other, two partners in power, DS and DSS. The blackmail has led them to a very bad solution in the resolution, which certainly distances the Republic of Serbia from the European path. The military neutrality spoken of in the resolution is nothing more than the end of the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Serbia. I'm surprised the DS eventually agreed to the DSS, which is pulling Serbia into isolation. We are deeply against military neutrality, because we believe in LSV as members of the North Atlantic NATO Pact that we can achieve a satisfactory security minimum without which there is no entry into the EU. The formulation concerning the signing of the Stabilisation Agreement with the EU is very bad and we are afraid that it also means the end of our European path. The situation on KIM is very bad and must be pointed out that it is not since yesterday or 2000, but much earlier. What was done to reintegrate that part of the Republic of Serbia? We don't think anything's been done in LSV. What signals are being sent from the Republic of Serbia? Parts of other countries' territories are mentioned and parts of other countries' territories are property. Neighbouring internationally recognised countries, e.g. Montenegro, called quasi-states and non-civilization products. These are the words of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, Mr. Aleksandr Simic. These are the shamefully filthy signals our government sends and thus weakens itself, of course to us, the foreign policy position. LSV wants Serbia to retain, at least "de jure" its sovereignty in KIM and we want the solution in Kosovo to satisfy the life needs of Albanians in Glogovac and Vučitrn, Serbs in Strpc and Lapljem Selo, Turks in Mamusa, Bosniaks in Vitomirica and all other citizens and citizens living in KIM. No one's talking about the citizens. All that matters is the territory, and the people are starving, there's no perspective. We think about it when we vote "yes" or "no" to this resolution. The LSV and I are against this resolution and we want to continue the European path of our country. That's why my colleagues and I submitted the amendment to the text of the resolution. We believe that the resolution that we are proposing – Resolution of the National Assembly on the change of state policy according to the status of AP KIM in order to protect life, rights, freedom and property of citizens and citizens of KIM. It contains eight points, and MPs and deputies of the highest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia must vote for several items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15090	Thank you, Mr. Marton. The word has been issued by MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the DSS-NSS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15091	Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow MPs, the people of Serbia, during the negotiations on KIM's final status, as well as at the session of the UN's SB, it has been shown that the arguments of rights and justice oppose the argument of force. Serbia and countries that are against the Serbian province's national secession see international law as the only civilized and thus the only sustainable and lasting framework to address the issue. In the spirit of tolerance and in line with the highest democratic values on which our society rests, we have shown willingness, responsibility and flexibility to provide the highest possible degree of political autonomy for Albanians living in KIM. I remind Kosmet that at least in one part of it, not only Albanians live, but also Serbs and members of other ethnic groups, as well as that the current demographic image in the province is the result of ethnic cleansing of non-Albanian living in 1999, but also the expulsion of the Serb population that began under the auspices of the Italian occupation army in World War II, and permanently verified by the adoption of Broz's laws on the ban on their return. After the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, Serbs, this time in front of international forces, were forced to leave the areas south of the Ibra River, especially Pristina, where they are no longer present. The UN civilian mission, despite a declarative push for a multiethnic and multicultural society, did not respect the political rights of Serbs who remained to live in KIM, as well as those who were expelled and displaced, so it allowed Pristina to represent a delegation exclusively made up of members of Albanian nationality in past negotiations. Some members of the delegation are the leaders of the most militant movements and organisations and are personally responsible for ethnic cleansing and persecution against Serbs. No one asked for an opinion from the Serb community. It is not surprising, then, that the negotiating team from Pristina came with only one option, which is independent Kosovo. That's the only reason the compromise wasn't possible. That part of the US-led international community knew in advance what the outcome of the negotiations would be and encouraged Albanian negotiators not to accept the compromise. Their conclusion is – when there is no compromise, a unilateral solution can be imposed. In the same way, the SB, when there is no SB decision, can be approached by unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence. In a world governed by rights, however, things are different. When a compromise between the opposing parties is not possible, a solution to the applicable legal norms is applied. In our case, the international law norm, without the rest, coincides with all the political documents on which international relations were built after World War II and explicitly says that Cosmet is an inalienable part of Serbia. There is no room for a different interpretation or for a dilemma about his status. Any other decision would be challenged before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, unless this high-level international judiciary institution, with the authority and dignity that has been building up for nearly a century, would not succumb to someone's political will. That would then be the end of this court and the great idea of regulating international relations on the principles of law, not violence. Either the International Court of Justice will dissipate secessionist demands or they will negate the existence of this court and the rule of law. There's no third. Therefore, the way Kosovo and Metohija status will be approached is far-reaching, right or force. But not even a commitment to the violent secession of KIM will realize the dreams of secessionists. Not only will Serbia never admit it, but the right will not permanently push ahead. A world in which we live and in which the smoldering world has no number of conflicts and threats can only survive in peace and security under the conditions of the rule of law in international relations. Without it, no one, not even the greatest force, put above the law today and put our country above the law, can have a peaceful future. And a first-year student at law school knows that every contract that's been extorted is void. Once the world's power relations are rebalanced and the legal order is restored, all decisions that have been extorted by the pressures of the greater power will become void. In Serbian, I would tell the Americans - don't admit them for nothing! This is not the first case of discrimination against the Serb people. Our rights have not been recognised since the very beginning of Yugoslavia's collapse, when three million Serbs were forced out of the country they created. Under the auspices of the international community, we lost both state and sovereignty, and many of the areas where they lived for thousands of years were subjected to ethnic cleansing and no question of any responsibility was raised. When we thought that madness had stopped and that the famous principle that Yugoslavia could be divided exclusively along the borders of the former republics to be true for Serbia again comes the world's geometry to once again evaporate our country and rip off the very property of our national identity. How, then, can we believe that European society respects us and that the EU sincerely wants us in its ranks? There is an impression that we would be received immediately if we stopped being ourselves; if we forget Gracanica and the Pećko Patriarchy and stop writing Cyrillic, if we say that we ourselves are guilty of everything the Ustashas, Nazis and the Division's handlers, mujahedins, Light and Storm warriors, visible and invisible bombers and Tomahawk rockets. That wouldn't be enough, either. We'd have to give up KIM voluntarily. We today must categorically say that the entire project and campaign to create an Albanian state in the part of Serbia's territory have been initiated and without the rest is being conducted by violence. It's not just violence against the international community's legal order, it's an organized military coup, which began ten years ago. Para-military formations of Albanian and international terrorists, titled the Kosovo Liberation Army, sometimes with a silent and sometimes explicit support from the United States and some EU countries, to mention only powerful envoy Richard Holbrooke, armed and armed with NATO warehouses, began armed facts against our country. The military action continued in NATO in 1999, killing Serbian citizens, destroying its material goods and economic substance. Internal and external violence has been coordinated to create conditions for the secession of KIM. Partnership relations between the international community and Albanian secessionists have shown transparency in these days when senior officials and the heads of several European states openly conditioned our accession to the Union and denial of Kosovo. In addition to the illegal, national and criminal character of the formation that these partners are making in the territory of our southern province, the fact that many of the officials and high-ranking representatives of civil and military missions were suspected or provenly involved in illegal activities and business malfeasances, and that no investigation has ever been launched against them. On the contrary, in their countries, they have been rewarded by career advancement. Martti Ahtisaari is even empowered to formulate a proposal on KIM's final status without having to explain to anyone the origin of the millions' amounts paid to him in a bank account. International police authorities are well aware that the production and trade of narcotics has its own European base in this area. If that crime can't be stopped under international administration, what kind of a monster character would get KIM under the authority of war criminals and mob bosses. Or those are the reasons why someone wants to create a monster of the state at all costs. In the end, I will remind myself of a lesson in history, which everyone who deals with politics must know, especially those who make large decisions with far-reaching consequences. The Force can temporarily overcome justice, but justice can't cheat in one day. Everything made by force has a limited and unhappinessful duration. It would be better for the European Union not to commit another injustice against Serbs and not to recognise the independence of KIM, because, as far as tomorrow, it could reveal that it has a greater interest than ourselves to see Serbia in its ranks. Its officials are on the wrong track, although it thinks Serbia will give in to blackmail and give up Kosovo for EU membership. The resolution, whose text we are to adopt today, proposes to the National Assembly and to all citizens of our country, is an expression of our firm determination that only Serbia can continue the accession process within its comprehensive borders. If the EU would make a decision to recognise the secession of our country's work and trample international law and elementary justice, we do not see the meaning of Serbia's accession to this organisation. Also, Serbia should be consistent in its view that no solution can be imposed by force and therefore the EU cannot without a Security Council decision to send its mission to KIM instead of an existing UN mission. Our final and unwavering view is that KIM is, by law and by justice, a forever and inalienable part of Serbia. How they did, so help us God! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15092	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15093	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, since this motion for a resolution does not differ significantly from the previous ones, and this time I will be against it. I will remind you that in the last two years, the international community has been very intensively engaged in rounding the Kosovo status process. On the basis of the known principles set out by the Contact Group, Marty Ahtisaari, the UN secretary-general, was made up of a famous proposal on Kosovo's internationally supervised independence. The document, despite general criticisms addressed both from both Serbian and Albanian, is nevertheless the most complete and serious project that has real opportunities to be implemented in practice with international support, allowing a democratic society in Kosovo that would ensure a normal life for all its citizens, regardless of its nationality. If we were to eliminate nationalist passions and prejudices, we must recognise the fact that the Ahtisaari document essentially extends the frameworks of international law in the area of minority rights, both individual and collective. Kosovo Serbs are offered collective rights, similar rights that Albanians once enjoyed in the former SFRY, only now we have international guarantees that these Serbs' rights will be a permanent obligation by the Kosovo authorities. This means that there would be no way to repeat the already seen scenario, which then Serbian authorities violently abolished Kosovo's constitutional position in the former Federation, in order to first abolish the most important human rights for Kosovo Albanians, and then, in a classic genocide, cause a humanitarian disaster that later also caused NATO intervention. Serious policy should take into account the fact that social processes are irrevocable and that it is illogical, even immoral, to expect that after the tragic events mentioned, as well as after the establishment of a civil and military international administration in Kosovo, to be re-experienced with the fate of Kosovo's population and that the sake of emotion and, above all, the interests of certain political structures in Serbia will sacrifice the right to normal life for Kosovo's citizens. Real policy, instead of nostalgic declarations drawn from the archives of long past times, when Serbs and Albanians fought for their national projects, could be far more engaged in improving the offered formulations in Ahtisaari's document as part of modern European values. It must finally be understood how important it is to move immediately towards solving life problems in Kosovo, based on the Contact Group principle. To publicly recognise the need to abandon the strategy of endless prolonging the definition of Kosovo's status, in the context of a illogical and counterproductive push to preserve the unbearable status quo and the frozen conflict that in no way corresponds to the citizens of Kosovo, which are defined, of course, to make common choices for normal life. Indeed, it is unacceptable that this resolution, which seeks to communicate only with the Serb and non-Albanian populations of Kosovo, is sent to Kosovo Serbs, beyond all modern civilization values, messages of self-insulation and refusal to live together in Kosovo. I speak on behalf of Albanians in the Presevo Valley who are in a difficult position, yet actively trying to make a political way within the institutions of Serbia to solve very difficult and very important life problems. In this direction, the unity of the National Assembly is important, of course, that I am not referring to the already seen and expensive paid unity of 1998, but to a unique approach based on European values that would, with co-operation with the EU, enable the creation of a democratic Kosovo, a common house for all its citizens. I absolutely think that for Albanians of the Presevo Valley, stabilising opportunities in Kosovo is a very important thing, because it would be a prerequisite for them to stop being hostages to an intolerable situation in Kosovo, to finally move towards a better life and to feel the whole environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15094	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic. Please don't cause replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15095	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Prime Minister, cabinet members, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a short, two questions. One is the part of the presentation of Honorable counterpart Riza Halimi, and it is related to the exhibition of also the esteemed counterpart Nenada Chanka. counterpart Nenad Canak mentioned here today, referring to history in 1912 as the first to be important in Kosovo, as if from Mehmet Occupier until the appearance of Mustafa Kemal Ataturka nothing happened in Kosovo and Metohija. It's six centuries, Mr. Halimi and Mr. Canak, as if Prizren wasn't the imperial city before 1912 and as if Gracanica, the High Decani and the Pećka Patriarchy had not existed before 1912 in Kosovo and Metohija. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Halimi, I understand your political struggle. She's completely legitimate. It reflects the political interest of Albanian people living in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, not in the presevo valley, it does not exist. I want to tell you, that the expensive paid unity of 1998, which you are talking about here, which is why I came forward, is that unity that allowed the citizens of Serbia to vote for the first time in their parliament not to veto NATO, the Parliament of Kosovo and Metohija and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. If it wasn't for this expensive unity, we wouldn't be talking about anything here today. That would already be a few states. I am proud to belong to the Serbian people and the SPS, who animated this unity and made an important foundation for this constitution that was adopted on the wings of this unity. I wish you and your countrymen all the best, but please, I remind you that you live in a state of Serbia that has its own Constitution and, please, respect it. Please respect him. Should I remind you that and how Serbs live in Albania today, in the state of Albania, I am talking about it, what rights they have achieved there, and what they are accomplishing today. Well... (President: Time.) I thank you, Mr. Albianic. Expensively paid unity, the question is, Mr. Halimi, what's expensive. Depends on who. It seems it is cheapest to give the territory, give the sanctity, so as you say, under the guarantee and with the guarantee of the international community to allow majorisation in Kosovo, for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to declare their country, so that, with international guarantees, they guarantee Serbs the right. As these new Democrats would say, the Serbian people have no democratic capacity to guarantee these rights... (President: Mr. Baralic, time. )......................................................................................................... in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Albianic, how to whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15096	Replica, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to draw attention, of course, I didn't accidentally mention 1998 and that homogenisation in this National Assembly, on the already known issue Mr. Canak was talking about and, of course, that caused confrontation with the entire modern world. It is absurd that this logic continues, because it is absolutely not the interest of any citizen of this country. That, in my opinion, is one thing. Secondly, there is really some serious debate about it, in addition to the legitimate right to cultural heritage and religious objects, to preserve it and to respect it until the end, because it cannot be taken on the basis of it, absolutely, some medieval right to rule people, with the automatic acquisition of the right to some space because of these or those objects. The countries are built and founded to make people feel better, so that people have a good life, that people have a normal life. We've seen in action, no, you've done well since the Balkan War, but I didn't deliberately enter those waters. We entered those waters when there was a more normal life in the former Yugoslavia, I just mentioned, which was the reason that it was destabilized to the extreme and produced tragedies that were often said not to have seen Europe since World War II, which is what we are talking about in this case. And I absolutely believe that the time has finally come for this sowing parliament to turn to real politics, real life. People from Kosovo meet me and often tell me – how long this will take, how long this madness will last and when we will live as people. That's the essence and the essence of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15098	The word has a folk MP Dragoljub Micunovic, then Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15099	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, ministers, of course, can be spoken in several ways here. I was tasked with speaking on behalf of the DS, who is in the ruling coalition and who has great responsibility for implementing the policy. So much of that speech I have to take down, not to like myself, not to like the audience, but to say what I think is about the task of both the Governments and the People's MPs at this difficult hour. We are in charge of the general good of the citizens, to do everything we can in their best interest. But sometimes two good ones come, apparently, into one collegiation. That's what we're talking about here. Let's not spread the subject. This next issue -- to maintain Kosovo's territorial integrity in Serbia, which is not in itself the goal of how much insistence on international law, on certain principles, which we must do. Another good thing is not to stop our path to European integration, which provides for, firstly, a better life and fight against isolation, in a word progress in line with other peoples of Europe. Can we help those two good guys not endanger each other but help each other? To defend, in principle, not only international law, but also some kind of democratic international order of relations between states and respect for international statutes, pacts, etc. This defends both the country's dignity and everything else, and let's not go astray, carried exclusively by emotion, and then enter into some kind of rhetoric, which is very often mentioned here in this assembly, it was even some sort of ideology, which would mean – tooth for tooth, eye for eye, rather than try to adopt an international form of behavior. Retortion is a primitive, emotional tool, rejected even in human relations, let alone among states; there is no more death penalty even for those who commit multiple murders. So, in some ways, we act as responsible as possible. I've always been a supporter of a realistic approach to facts. There were military statements here, resolutions, events, I wouldn't mention it now. But I wouldn't want to, in any way, insult anyone or anyone for that matter or give it up. Emotions are a completely human thing, as well as beliefs and those, when they become a material force, when they master people, then they must also be respected. By listening to many speeches, I had the impression that a part of us MPs were taking care of realism, the future, ignoring our current divisions and our current political social, reality and what our emotions are. You see, perhaps with the best intentions, or carelessly, citizens' expectations are raised that the Kosovo issue will be dealt with best. That's one fact now. Whoever's trying to ignore it, I don't think he's acting politically wisely. Of course, what is the basic value now for us here. First it's stability. But what does stability mean? Is it just peace and sustainability of institutions or something more? I think stability is something much more valuable, because stability only gives us the future, to predict the future, to hope for the future. If we're stable, then we're predictable and then investments will come and whatever you want, political friends, etc. Then we're predictable to ourselves and to others. We have another option, which is also legitimate, but which does not have many resistances in reality, although these meetings in the Assembly, by drawing up resolutions, we are building something that could be called state unity, but I do not know how much we have the illusion that today in these talks, or any resolution, we will really ensure Kosovo's survival in Serbia. However, not having that kind of optimism does not mean that in any way I want not to point out the serious and great effort of the negotiating team, a certain success in making the Kosovo issue internationalised in one more serious way, that it is no longer breaking over the knee. Our negotiators have managed not to allow this issue to just be smudged, because the question is extremely significant, it's not just about territory. I don't agree with those who believe that territory is everything. The state is more than territory. So, empty territory is symbolic, but it's important to us who lives in that territory, how we develop, how we cooperate with others. We have another one now, I'd say a commitment that has introduced us in a good way, no matter what some critics say, in the world. Why do we insist on international law? Not because we really believe that there is absolute international law and that everything in justice will happen, even when we don't believe that justice will win, we have to endure it. If we didn't insist on it, or act pragmaticly and realistically, then we would accept the international order as a tyranny of force. I'm not saying that's not what happened in history. They're both major states and great forces. And now they're wrong. We are the contemporaries of these mistakes, going into the Czech Republic, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Iraq, all you want. So let's not idealize someone just because they have power. Our goal, when we stick to international law, is that as people who know that justice in absolute terms is not available, but mankind would fail if people didn't strive for it and not fight for it. Because we're so barbarous about international law, it's not just an illusion, it's a principled and serious attitude. This principled commitment has some kind, not only of national pride, but also of one contribution to international law. That's what they taught us from Imanuel Kant to today what must lie in international law. However, there is this second part, and I want to make a statement about it immediately. I think that the continuation of our talks with Europe, the signing of what we have already initialled, and what we have been doing in this direction, for so many years, we cannot, on behalf of citizens, in the name of the future, in any way, question any answers to what might be in the future. When we initialled this agreement, we had the same opinion, and I think that's when the Ahtisaari plan was proposed, and so on, and yet we initialled that it was something we could go into. Now, a few words about how many concepts are licked or changed, or whatever you want. We have experienced here from many that Europe or Europe is considered to be something foreign and foreign and other and ultimately what we do not need, but Europe is primarily a geographical concept, so a civilization term, its territories, these countries, change, the content changes in it. Europe has surprised both liberalism and socialism, but unfortunately fascism. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I patriotism. Don't try to distract me, I don't think you can. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I am helping you. I'm helping you by saying that your position is very clear, I completely understand it, you're not going to Europe, you didn't want 15 years ago or today, you have your reasons against it why you are and that's something that's clear. What I don't understand is why are we raising expectations and emotions for something that can't happen? When a man asks you – what will you do if by chance Europe or anyone recognizes Kosovo's unilateral recognition? The most common answer follows – we will do nothing but diplomatic some steps. But what do these diplomatic steps bring? What are the steps, besides what is necessary to do, one demarch etc., but in the extreme line when we break diplomatic relations with a country, which is our benefit? What I'm saying is that every single thing we have to think about is whether there's any benefit to the citizens, because we exist as citizens with our torments, our interests, our ambitions, and we exist as political parties with certain programmes, who have joined together, and then we exist as a political community forming in the state. We can't undo with this last notion the feelings and thoughts and interests of everyone. We need to think about the future, about the citizens and let us do it the best possible way. The fact that we're going to like ourselves or make points doesn't mean that we can make the citizens very happy. We have the right to say and I have always spoken, I will say and now, where all the international community or great powers in it, having their interests, their sins and what is wrong. It was unfair that after all the wars in Yugoslavia, people were not allowed to return home, and such a struggle was against ethnic cleansing. It happened, too, that we were even bombed for ethnic cleansing, etc. After all, these consequences of ethnic cleansing remained, it is complete inconsistencies and some pragmatism, the interest of individual forces. That's obvious. We don't have to check that out. There are also many other errors in the decomposition of Yugoslavia, when at one point it was called for respect of borders, and in the other case for the self-determination of the people, and when it was in Croatia, then there was respect for the people for self-determination, when Croatia and Slovenia separated, and then it came to Bosnia for the borders to be respected. Now, again, we have again sounds that allegedly self-determination is important. It's just some facts, we can't change them. We can say and we should always talk, but let's not have any illusions then that we managed to actually change our situation. What worries me is that we're going to go into isolation with such dictionaries or gestures, which is the worst and the greatest loss. We can't say – we'll never talk to those who do this or that. That word is never good in ordinary life, especially in political life. We cannot in this way determine and limit our freedom. The worst thing that can happen, even if we call on pride, is to get into isolation. I would set an example of a country called Albania, Enver Hoxha was also taken over by Soviet communism, helped by the Chinese for a time, and made a decision not to allow the state to be in charge, etc. Forty years later, we found only bunkers, one completely crippled, poor, and ruined people. It's the result of isolation. I always said the worst thing they could do was to get us sanctions, because that isolation is something that makes it impossible for us to move forward with the others. We can't get into that, no matter how angry we are at each other or the other or the third. In the end, Russia and Russian factors are mentioned very much. First, Russia is Europe, it is in the Council of Europe. Russia is an integral part of European history and civilization. Russia fought in two world wars, along with many European countries, which today form the basis of the EU. It belongs to Europe according to its capacities, cultural, geopolitical and others. And we belong in Europe, because in no way can we from Europe castrate ourselves in this way that we are not there. So, we fight on the international agenda, we fight with all political means, diplomatically, but let's not cut down other paths that are somehow defined as the best way out for our economy, for our youth, for our future. Over time, many things will change, borders change, political consolidations change in the country, nothing is forever, but it's dangerous if we change direction. That direction we took when we set up DS 18 years ago was democratic, pro-European, in terms of respect for European values, and we are not Democrats to like anyone in Europe or in America or anywhere, but these are our deepest beliefs. Therefore, no one should throw us out of it, because then we threw ourselves out of our own essence. I know this is a difficult moment, and we're going to have a lot of problems that we're facing, but I wanted to express with this speech, without any party aversion, no heightened emotions, no false hopes, no self-esteem, something that calls us to a serious reality and responsibility and to be in harmony with ourselves. The DS will be in line with itself and with its European values, it will be in line with its coalition partners that we have come together with. We can get along in shades sometimes or disagree, but our path is common and we will endure it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15100	Thank you, Mr. Micunović. The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, then Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15101	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Republic, seems to be missing, the Honorable Prime Minister, the ministers, whom there is, have other more important things to do, this Resolution and what we are talking about today is really very important, because my impression that after two centuries of Serbian history it seems like the Serbian people are some sort of stray tribe that knows nothing about themselves, which knows neither where sovereignty is, nor where there is state boundaries, nor any path should go. Whether he will go to Asia, whether he will go to Indonesia, whether he will go to the European Union, so, after two centuries of our state history today, all issues have been raised before Serbia. This resolution, which is before us, the first thing that made my impression on me, is that I should say something about our state policy. Mr. President and the rest of you who stayed in this room, I must say, what we've won in this resolution, that here is the complete defeat of our state policy. This defeat of state policy is being seen in this, and we warned in July that this government would oppose the interests of Kosovo, the preservation of Kosovo and our journey to the European Union. Unfortunately, I have to say that today we don't have one leadership that would be the leadership of visionaries, but we have one chicken, small leadership, which doesn't know where everything is going today, where neighboring countries go and what's happening in the world at all. If we look at what we need to sacrifice? The whole resolution was written so that it practically closed Serbia's path to the European Union. Mr. Micunović, I respect you very much, but what you're saying doesn't suit the truth. The resolution says that without any call, without any question, which is not at all on the agenda, this resolution should decide that Serbia will not enter NATO, but you know that this is the lobby of all Eastern European countries' entry into the European Union. I guess we're hoping for some new Warsaw Pact. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been conditioned a little vague, but conditioned, and it is said that the European Union, which we are questioning and conditional on, must declare whether it will leave us with Kosovo so that we can eventually join the European Union. You know they say a series of threats, threatens some diplomatic measures. I must tell you that this resolution, as my colleague Vukic once used to say, is as if he wrote Hashim Thaci. When we pull these diplomatic measures, who's gonna rub their hands in there like they do? They will say -- the Serbs have gone mad again, fine, and it will be seen that we and no one with them can. As soon as we do, it is clear that we cannot identify ourselves on these basic issues. Then we say something that's impossible. We say that any act of another state that eventually recognises Kosovo's independence will be annulled. How can a state resolution, which Parliament here should vote for, say that we can annul the acts of some other states? She brings Germany, she can't undo our resolution, how we're going to undo her resolution. So, in other words, what's mentioned here, it seems to me that this kind of turning back on Europe and European values has not been recorded since 1945. So, 1945 and December 2007. So far, our current state policy has led to this. It even seems to me that we have turned some priorities here, so we think that Kosovo is not some goal, but that our most important goal is to break up with the European path. How did we get here at all, and what is it that we can talk like this about Serbia not knowing where it's going, doesn't know what it's doing? I think it was said here by some other parliamentary groups. You see, gentlemen, in 1999, I speak now and to all our citizens, we all know this is some kind of basic rule that when a foreign army enters the territory, you no longer have sovereignty in that territory. We heard one point brought here by the leader of the radical party, Mr. Nikolic. And he admitted that we had some inevitability that happened in 1999. So it's true, and even this resolution, that's where we all seem to agree. There are some inevitable things that we know will happen. This resolution does not depart from these inevitables to say whether there is any other real chance, whether we can achieve what is possible or we will lead politics all or nothing, the policy led by Slobodan Milosevic and led Serbia to an unprecedented defeat, even until that 1999, when the foreign army entered our territory. The government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, is guilty and responsible for this, and you are right about Micunovic, because without any cover it has created huge expectations among the people that we have sovereignty and territorial integrity in Kosovo, and citizens are normal people. They know that even now the Serbian states are not currently in Kosovo. In this fiction, in this fantasy, that there is some sovereignty, this resolution is being built and the fantasy is breaking up with the European Union. That's where the deaf phones came in. Of course the negotiations couldn't work. While other normal people come from a real state, our negotiating team comes from some fantasy and some fiction. What do they want from the citizens and what do they want from Serbia now? Let's all freeze in their fantasy, close our eyes and see what's going on, but we'll maintain that illusion, and in doing so, I won't insult all the ministers, and in doing so our ministers are all in order, honor the exceptions, millionaires! On the one hand, we're going to close our eyes, and there's going to be millions here, and it's going to be rotting this country in the destruction of all institutions and in the unprecedented thieving, to say that what's now been chosen is the one that was designated here in some election campaigns -- a better life. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, with this resolution, if you will vote for it, you must say that there will be no better life here. What is proposed here, this is not a fight for Kosovo. Here's an apology for the defeat you've suffered as a negotiating team. You had negotiations, you didn't achieve anything in those negotiations, I explained why you didn't achieve anything. You're trying to transfer it to other major forces that we need to say goodbye to, and now I'm asking you a question: What will happen, and I pray that Mr. Minister is not laughing, but to answer the question, who will be responsible when the next day of the same state, from which we are breaking down and closing the door, will recognise it independent Kosovo, when there are no more Serbs in Kosovo... and Serbia to go to Europe... and we will welcome the situation for Kosovo to be a part of the European Union, and Serbia will sit as some crazy isolated island. Who will be responsible for this result? I call upon you to answer these questions, who will be responsible for this failure. There's something else I need to say, and that's very important, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The resolution is one rotten agreement by the ruling coalition, which does not show the way Serbia should go. The Radical Party has its own, it says -- both with Kosovo and without Kosovo, we will not, whatever happens, mean we are not interested and this position is absolutely clear. But here people continue to think that we are holding some open door towards Europe. Have you calculated what the next step is, what will be the European Union's reaction? Here, there's our signer, someone said he was sitting with a pen, waiting to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. What if we're offered this agreement, you're going to say I won't? I end up with this, that Serbia, unfortunately, has no leadership that can show which way Serbia should go today, which has no visionaries that can get us out of this crisis, but that we should get down and continue to pursue these resolutions that simply don't say anything, we should freeze in one's fantasies and sufferings, and the people, if you see how he lives, he's almost out of breath, Serbia dies, and you're closing the last door where we expected a normal life, a modern state, a place where we can all live. Thank you, with this resolution, we have indeed suffered a great national defeat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15102	Thank you, People's MPs, Mrs. Vesni Pesic. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15103	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, executive officials, I must say that I am truly disappointed, and I suppose a good part of the citizens of Serbia, almost desperate, because of the discussion we heard today and the overall behaviour of the national representatives in the National Assembly of the RS. Today we expected a day that is not ordinary, a day in which we should give our citizens an answer, a day in which we should tell people in Serbia what it is that we are going to do to save Serbia, what is it that we are going to do to make our children have a future, what is it that we are going to do for our people in KIM and see exactly what is Serbia's direction in the future, how are we going to provide a better economy, a better social position for our population? From all of this, we've been given three-way party debates, half-broken, representatives of the regime and some of their stickers. I didn't even want any of us from the SRS to respond to senseless claims or Mr. Micunovic, or some others, referred to as arrows, we're very smart, so we'll say that under the grain, to transfer something to the Serbian radicals. There was no need because Serbian citizens saw your interest in Serbia, your interest in KIM. We have come from the President of the Republic, therefore, acting president of Serbia, because when you have the elections called then he is only the acting president of Serbia, I hope, and I suppose he will never be elected president of Serbia again because of the way the government has performed, and he has done nothing good or done to the citizens of Serbia. In his speech, we couldn't hear anything except what we listen to every day, from, uh, everyone. It seems they have nothing else to say to the representatives of the executive government's close party of the regime's head, Boris Tadic, which is -- we're not going to isolate, we're not going to war. Who asked you that? I haven't heard anyone in Serbia want to fight, I haven't heard anyone want to go into isolation. Don't lie and stop with those lies once. Tell the people what you will do, and do not lie that someone else wants to fight and that someone wants to lead the country into isolation, because these lies and these frauds have been enough. We won't tolerate that anymore. Here are normal people, people who have their families, who care about the future of their children, they want to live in peace, they want to live in normal Serbia, but they want to live in Serbia with KIM, and you're already talking about it here – well, even though they take away Kosovo, what we care about, we continue our own, some, other way. [[Applause]] We don't have another time except for Serbia, except for our children's times. It's the only way we've got. What are you people talking about?- I'm sorry. From Boris Tadic to some representatives here, as if we were not in the Serbian Parliament, but in Albanian, where Riza Halimi comes as the most tolerance and some of the liberal representatives of the Albanian parliament there, and you representatives of Serbian political parties as the most extreme Albanian representatives. Well, it doesn't matter, you say in advance, well, you dear friends from the EU, this is about prevention. And that, people in Serbia understand what you're doing, that you're deliberately working against your country. This isn't about a reaction to something that's already happened. Nothing's happened yet. This is about prevention. It is our job to act preventively today, to try to preserve our country, our territory and our people. And what's your message? What is the message to the citizens of Serbia? Your message is - you don't care about KIM, here, we'll put it in the resolution that it's illegal, we'll get a little angry, yes, it's an injustice, but if you take it from us, we won't do anything about it. You know what you said to them? You told them in advance – take KIM, you know, you won't have any problem, everything's normal, we'll continue, kill our child, we'll go to your house tomorrow to drink coffee, because your coffee is a little more expensive than ours. And the situation is much worse than the example I set. The abduction of territory is not the murder of one child, but the killing of many children and generations of Serbian children. But, you don't care, you need an empty story, here to speak – these aren't for.... It's us, just let them say it. Let your friends, our great friends, here's President Boris Tadic, DS, the regime candidate in these presidential elections, let him just tell us -- here, my friends have provided, normally, we're not asking them for money, we're asking them for nothing, just to respect Serbia's territorial integrity. Tomislav Nikolic said last night – we will say right away, no problem, we will cooperate with you, you will be our partners. Just give me that little thing, just give me one thing. But they won't give that little thing either, but let's step on it, let's take it, and then the regime candidate will say, well, I'll send this one, he'll make a pen, and then he'll tell the citizens how it'll make life better. That's what he said six years ago, the same guy who made the pen, and he alone has a better life than a better life with 11m euros, and Serbian citizens are getting poorer, and only in one bank. Is that a serious response for the citizens of Serbia to our problems? That they're gonna take pictures and be the first news on your TV? What do we do seven days after that? Whatever is in the presidential elections, I hope, and I will do everything that is personal to me, I am sure all these people and the largest number of citizens of Serbia will do to change the regime, to defeat the regime's candidate and win the opposition candidate, Tomislav Nikolic. I ask, whatever happens, what do we do on February 6th, what do we do on February 10th, what about our people who are watching us now and who are wondering, what did they do, what did they tell us, what would they do? We are based on the text of the resolution, with the remarks we had, and on the part about military neutrality that is unclearly defined, even unnecessary, for a simple reason that if you are already predicting a referendum for NATO that you did not foresee in the accession act, so you could predict and not predict because it is otherwise impossible to do so, there is no popular trust in the NATO Alliance in Serbia. But around this point of 'dj', which was mentioned, we have now seen, Mr. Prime Minister, I would ask you, he asked you today and Tomislav Nikolic, to come out and say what your position is. We heard the attitude and the head of the regime, i.e. the regime candidate and his representatives. We expect to hear your position, Mr. Prime Minister, to see if your position is the same as the position of the regime candidate, then that would be contrary to what you have said, contrary to what your party's representatives have said. We'd like to hear your opinion. So it's not like we came out here to just say something that you like or don't like, or anyone in the O.R., but we want to listen to you. We want to hear your opinion. Is it your opinion that it does not matter, and that we do not know what will happen, so now, my God, we shall live. No, we thought we'd all die the next day. No, of course we're going to live. No one will jump into the well, no one thought of it, and no one will make irrational but rational decisions after that, but with what we have shown today by debate in the National Assembly, we, people, drew those who are taking our territory – take and ask of us whatever you want, as long as you want, we do not have a state. Because what you're talking about, you say, "The vision is that, let's give up the territory, or they'll take it away from us, so nothing." Do you know what kind of vision that is? It's a vision of the most common occupation gaulater, occupation deputy or servant, to translate into Serbian. Come on, then, let's put an end to Parliament. Put an end to Parliament, put an end to the government, put an end to everything, say, everything will be as they tell us. We don't have a country. That we don't lie to people anymore, that we don't lie to people in Serbia anymore, that we decide something here. Tell the people -- no more Serbia, no more state, but we are commanded by those, some, whom we cannot say that they cannot take our territory, if that's the case. But I don't think so. I think it's about those and that's why this was more like it in certain moments in Albanian than the Serbian Parliament, because they think that this policy of licking people can get something, which is -- people, it's never gonna hurt you, what do you care about parts of the territory, what do you care about some of our people, our possible refugees, what do you care about our poor people, what do you care about anything, we'll make sure you live a hundred times better. Well, in 2003, you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ran the campaign together with Cedomir Jovanovic, "in the European Union 2007.". Is that right? That's what happened. What kind of campaign you're running now - I don't care about everything else, we'll be in 2015, and by 2015 you'll only have 45m euros in one bank, and the people will continue to fail. You will continue in 2015 to come and propagate to the people as well as how they should vote for you, for the people, of course, will live better, and the people will grow poorer, only you will be richer and richer. Prior to last night, the regime candidate said in a TV show, the regime's presidential candidate, Boris Tadic: "I want 500 thousand new jobs". That's what you said, my friend, in 2004, ten times that happened in 2004. What happened to those 500 thousand jobs? He says, "I want to build a meter of highway every day, that we have highways all over Serbia." Oh, come on, my friend, with his Deputy Prime Minister, build one centimetre of bridge, so that Belgrade and other Serbian citizens don't kill each other in the capital, that they can't go five hours to Sava or Dunav, per inch, don't lie to the people for one meter and I don't know what. You are not able to do one inch, just to kidnap, and here to talk – the future, the European Union. [[Applause]] I have two children and I live for them, just as you live for your children. Are you saying I don't think about them, that I'd like them to live badly, that they don't have a good standard? No, I am sure that in Serbia we can provide a better standard than today, that we can live incomparably better, that we can talk to everyone in the world, but that Serbia must be protected, that we need to know what our borders are, what our territory is, and that there is no difference between Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica, Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Piroth, Užica, Chačka or any other place. If we don't know that, we don't have a state. I listened to a regime candidate in the presidential election, listen to this brilliant thought, says a regime candidate on a TV show, misleading a nation, so please, Mr. Prime Minister, I may not know, I may not be uneducated, to get out and tell me if that regime candidate is right or if it's not the presidential candidate, or I, but to say it, says that non-proliferation candidate: "Oh, why don't we be like Cyprus?" [[Applause]] It's hard for him to explain. It's a confusing message he sends to voters. In order for him to preserve Kosovo and already knows that in early February, the EU is going to recognise independence. He didn't get it, and then he remembered, "We can do it like Cyprus." Look at the lie and the fraud. Why? He did not tell Serbian citizens that no European country, no EU country has ever recognised a northern, secluded part of Cyprus. Only Turkey has recognised the northern part of Cyprus, and Kosovo and Metohija will recognise all European countries, all EU countries or most. What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Prime Minister? Why don't you tell the non-majority candidate for Serbian president not to deceive Serbian citizens? I guess he thinks we're all illiterate, he thinks no one here knows anything, only he found a way to pack it up for his voters, that they can explain anything to the people in Serbia, any nonsense to say. Come out and tell me if this is true or not. Come out and tell me if it's true or not. Here we have listened to representatives of the authorities who say, "For us, the most important thing is to enter the NATO Pact, because it is the only alliance, so we provide our future." What, by paying a billion more on an annual basis? If they had just listened to your debates, we would never have been able to vote, but we have tried to raise the interest of the state above our party's particular interest, and we have tried at all costs to show people in Serbia that we are serious people, to show that we are responsible with ourselves, that we want to show that we are together in preserving the sovereignty of this country and to tell people that we are going to try to preserve our country. And we got a debate after which people can just turn off the TVs and say, "God, help me and my kids, because I don't know how we're gonna survive tomorrow, let alone a month and a year ahead." Look at how much laughter today, how irresponsible it was, how much unnecessary words were spoken against Serbia and the Serbian people, and political opponents. In every way, all that matters is how to deal with someone who thinks differently. What about this thing that helped an unscrupulous candidate from Republika Srpska? That the people don't think it's a people in Republika Srpska. The people of Republika Srpska know whose side they are on, on the side of Serbian patriotism. They brought that famous criminal to whom you gave the villa on Dedinj, one, because he supported your three parties in the previous elections. How much does this support cost? Does two fairies now get that criminal, Dodik, to support this election? Is it the job of those who run this country to fight political parties, to fight the people instead of doing something for the people? We who are in opposition, unfortunately in this country, are acting much more responsible than you in power, looking for common language, looking for something where we could find an interest in Serbia, to vote together. And what are you doing? You only work on conflicts with those who think differently, you watch how to defeat them, humiliate them, and nothing else. You're not gonna make it. This resolution is not great, it's not bad, I don't know what we got from it, our attempt was to show our people and our citizens our will to protect our country. We only have one Serbia. We don't have a spare homeland. What are you going to do, you're in power, don't accuse the representatives of the opposition. We will decide in part after February 3rd. I am sure that even after this debated Serbia will be made clear and that on February 3rd, it will vote with all its heart for change and for Tomislav Nikolic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15104	Thank you, People's Ambassador Alexander Wolfich. The word has Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15105	I don't know why Mr. Wolf was so angry. I understood that they wanted unity, maximum, but he insulted it in order, from the government, ministers, all in turn accused all of having a legitimate party speech at the expense of the public service, where he said everything he needed to say in the campaign. But he can't say what's not true. Who said that we would ever recognise Kosovo as an independent state unilaterally declared? Whoever said that, here, you just take it, we offer it to you, and you just give it a hand and take it. The president of the state and the Prime Minister and representatives of all parties of the ruling coalition said they would not recognise a unilateral decision on an independent Kosovo. And that's a fact. Don't put up with it, and apparently we're gathered to make it clear and loud. And now you're breaking it with a story that it's just you who want it, and everyone else is looking forward to being traitors, just looking forward to being traitors. It's funny only to attribute patriotic exclusiveness to yourself, it's a past story. I've been listening to patriots so much, but they're not gonna get shot, otherwise everybody survives, it's all right, it all ends well. Let's not. With that story, we won't get far. Let's see what we're about to do at this difficult moment. I ask if it is in our interest and let it be described to me, that we tell Europe – we will not sign agreements with you and that brings us some benefit. Describe that benefit to me. It's a rational question of someone who's chosen to take care of the general good. That's what I'm worried about. I'm interested in the citizen. What do we get? What's your answer when you're heroic, you can't say what you're going to do? Here, I asked you a question – what are you going to do? How to defend Kosovo? Do we want to fight a war? We all said we wouldn't fight. Then what's left for us as a second option? This is a diplomatic thing to do, and to end diplomatic relations with other countries, I don't see that it leads to anything but isolation. That's not a good thing to do, either. So, we need to worry, if that happens to any accident, what can we do for those people there -- not to raise one Berlin or Chinese wall, so let's say we don't care about you, so they'll slaughter them or whatever, how do we protect those monuments, how do we protect that property there? We need to think a little bit more, economically, pragmaticly, in the interest of citizens and these people there. What we're about to say -- if it's not there, we're gone, it sounds nice, it's good for a speech, but it's not a practical solution. The opposition can afford it, she uses it and needs to do it. But the practical government policy has to take care of real interests, we can't say – we don't care about Europe, we're gonna be a hole in the carpet, so we're gonna hurt them, and that's how we answered all the questions. We have to think completely sober, the campaign is here, unfortunately, bringing in party interests, but we are facing a big problem that we have to solve – where and how we will get out of this trouble, and we will save face, we will never admit it, but let's see what we can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15106	Thank you, Professor Micunovic. The word is Alexander Vucic, replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15107	Ladies and gentlemen, when we were preparing for this session, we thought about how and how to vote, how to define our speeches, what is the message we want to send to the citizens of Serbia, what is what people in Serbia would like to hear, and what is what we can really do, and what is not. If that were a fact, we know that Tadic, Sutanovac, Davinic and others have destroyed our armed forces since 2000, we know that nothing can be done about it and we expect nothing, we are not looking for anything. We ask political representatives to be far more responsible. We didn't say you would recognise or sign independent Kosovo. Oh, no, there's a much more cunning version, and it's the citizens of Serbia, and how they recognize it, and that's -- that's what happened, what now? Our reality has commanded us to behave in such a situation – well, how will we do so? Well, so, as if nothing had happened, we'll make peace with those who killed our child, we'll make peace with those who took our territory, and don't let those who think that kidnapping territory is nothing, because you're showing just what your relationship with the state is to Serbia. For no moment, Mr. Micunovic, I may have been able to comply with the Penal Code, which you yourself have brought, to mention the traitors, not to mention them, but to do what you have done for ten years – yes, division, as traitors, patriots. That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about how I felt in this parliament, unfortunately, as if I were in Albanian rather than in the Serbian parliament. Don't make it up and translate my words. In the wrong way you interpreted the words of Tomislav Nikolic, with a hole in the carpet, but with what they wish to make of us and where they will set us up. That, Mr. Micunovic, is different, if you want to correctly interpret our words. I don't have a problem with everything you said, at least not in this last part. It's always normal to interpret things rationally, but I remind you of what we need to do. Our Kosovo hasn't been kidnapped yet. What is it that we can do now? If what we can do now is what you're proposing, to take Cedomir Jovanovic's voice in the election campaign, so to speak, there's no connection, we have that European path, so whatever happens, we're going there. Is this seriously state-of-the-art and smart behavior? I'm sure not, Mr. Micunovic, I think it's the irresponsible behavior of a non-regime presidential candidate, irresponsiblely because you send a message in this way – people, you can take KIM away from us. That's what we're different about. So don't prepare that pen, but better that pen, Deputy Prime Minister, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask your attention, I know that MPs can't attract your attention as high interest on your huge money invested in certain banks, but I'm asking you for a moment's attention. Please, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, make that pen better prepared for your resignation. The people and citizens of Serbia will rejoice much more than by giving KIM to Albanians and taking it away from Serbia forever. That's exactly what's going to happen and don't pretend you don't know it, and Serbia will have to live. Of course, she has survived many authorities and those in which we have participated for two years, and such and such, she will survive this worst monster that has touched Serbia. And I'm sure as of February 3rd, we'll have changed in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15108	Thank you, Alexander Wolf. The word has Aleksandra Jerkov, let Dr. Zarko Obradovic prepare himself. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Dragan Todorovic, please. I've been instructed that the Rules of Procedure are gone. I may have made a mistake. I apologize in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15109	Mr. Grouchy, I don't know who you're getting your instructions from. I think you should lead the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15110	I agree with you, but I have been instructed that the agreement by the heads of the parliamentary groups was that today, when it comes to Kosovo, there is no notification by the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Micunovic, I am reporting under Article 101(2) for your address to the SRS and the way you interpret today's resolution, especially when it comes to point 'd'. We're asking for basic honesty from you in power. We ask you to tell the people what you intend to do. For the sake of honesty, today's session wouldn't have been if we hadn't forced you to. If you were really going to tell the people what you're going to do and everything that's written in this resolution, point "j" is at stake. You interpret it one way, DS interprets it another way, G17 plus that somewhere in between, as it suits them. The question is raised here, there are more than 20 days, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister – is it true that the agreement initialled on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed and only applies to part of Serbia's territory without Kosovo and Metohija? Don't be uninformed tomorrow. Here, again, I ask you that question, if that's true, then you're prepping a scam on this people. You deceive us in advance, and we ask of you, did you make peace in advance with the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, but because of the pre-election campaign, it is important that you hide it, to deceive the people, so this is how you define this point. Because what the Prime Minister said in New York on December 19th differs from this. The DSS statement accurately and decidedly asks you from the DS to plead on the European Union and for its pledge to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Normally, we, as MPs and citizens of Serbia, are asking to hear in the Serbian Parliament what you really want, what you stand for. In all this, you're just trying to profit from this, to deceive the citizens of Serbia, you from the DS, because of the presidential election, and those from the DSS because they're interested in it right now. Therefore, you will very simply solve all these dilemmas. Go out and say, "If that happens, we'll do it too." What does that mean when you say - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires the Government of the Republic of Serbia to have international agreements concluded by the Republic of Serbia, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, function as a function of preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. Will this mean, very simply, I ask you, that this agreement will not be signed if we are kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija, or will it be signed before the presidential elections are over, in order to, assuming, help the candidate DS win those elections. That's what we're looking for as MEPs and citizens of Serbia. Come out and tell me exactly what this means.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15112	Thank you, Dragan Todorovic. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15113	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I thank Vice President Djelic for finally allowing me to come to my turn. Of course, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs cannot support the text of this declaration. The reason is that the difference between this and the previous two declarations adopted by this assembly, which we also did not support, is a distinct anti-European character of this declaration, i.e. resolutions. The DS did what she shouldn't have done. She has made a compromise on what could not have been a compromise, that is, the essence of European integration. In fact, there is something called European Union law. This is the European Union's right to define entering the European Union under the conditions set by the European Union. These criteria, which every country that wants to join the European Union needs to meet, are called Copenhagen criteria, and for Western Balkan countries there are additional conditions, which are defined so-called. the Stabilisation and Association Process ending with the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Since the text of the Agreement has been initialled, it is no longer possible to change it, so it is in every right, that the initialed contract and the initialed agreement cannot be changed anymore. It is the European Union that sets the conditions, not the country that wants to join, so it would not be possible for Serbia to change the text of this agreement. All, and that is possible, this should not be done as you state in your proposal on the function and preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, but should therefore also be done in the function of a better life and better quality of life of citizens and citizens of this country, but it is obviously your last concern. The clause you put in this resolution, what does it mean? It actually means that Serbia could no longer sign any international agreement with any European Union country, with any international entity that recognises Kosovo's independence. The European Union has made it clear by its commission that it will recognise Kosovo's independence. This means that you have said in this declaration that Serbia does not want to integrate into the European Union, which we have already heard from the discussion of some MPs of the ruling coalition. When we talk about a NATO clause, it is very important to say that although NATO is not an official condition for entering the European Union, there is one security condition, or a candidate country must meet some criteria when it comes to security, and the European Union, since it does not have its own army, has no way of assessing whether the country meets the condition and NATO is the only organisation that can assess. That is why none of the transition countries have been able to join the European Union without having previously been a NATO member. We are neither Finland nor Austria, we are simply unable to set such conditions for the European Union because we cannot contribute to the European Union, as these countries have done. But until a very short time ago, you knew that, too. I'll just read one part of the interview with Mr. Sutanovac, the defence minister, who has now agreed to this text of the declaration. He was asked what he thought about Kostunica's view that we should remain militaryly neutral and that it was the best position for Serbia, he replied that the strategy had already been seen and would not bring any changes. We can be neutral and political, but the question is how many of our citizens will be able to withstand the consequences of this neutrality. When asked what the consequences would be, Mr. Sutanovac replied, if we look at which countries the best schools are being treated, that the longest lifetime of life is the best standard, these are NATO member states. If we stay neutral, the consequences will be that we don't have it all. When asked if he had anything against joining NATO, he said - I have no professional, no private, no political. The question for Mr. Sutanovac, unfortunately, he is not here, is he going to have something against this resolution now, at least morally, if not politically. Also, Boris Tadic said signing the Partnership for Peace is just a logical step as a culmination of NATO integration, because it is a better way of life for our citizens. This was also said by Jelena Markovic, a spokesman for the DS, Oliver Dulic, Vuk Jeremic and many DS officials. Why did you give up European integration? What made you change your mind? For what support, what election was it? I don't know. But no one's chair is worth giving up the European Union, giving up the European citizens' future. You have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15114	The word has Master Bozidar Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15115	Mr. Vice-President, Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, since there have been several questions about the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, whether in any way they may endanger the territorial integrity of our country, I would like to say that this agreement has 740 sides and that from tomorrow morning, it will be on the website of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that all citizens of our country can fully consult and see that it is predominantly one trade and economic agreement. It's mostly about whether we're okay and how we've negotiated to protect our agriculture, how we've provided a way to protect our industry. But, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, I only want to mention two things. The first is that the preamble to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement contains the following provision, I will read it: "Take into account the definition of the parties to fully implement all the principles and provisions of the UN Charter, the OSCE, in particular those contained in the final act of the Conference on European Security and Cooperation (hereinafter: the Final Act of Helsinki) in charge of the documents of the Madrid and Vienna Conference, the Paris Charter of New Europe". I will say that this preamble calls for all the key legal provisions that provide international law and which were the cornerstone of our country's negotiating position. In that sense, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which, as a negotiated relationship between the European Commission of Member States and our country, as it obliges us to respect international law, obliges those who sign this agreement to also respect international law and these provisions that I have noted. As already mentioned on two occasions by the MPs, there is one other place, it is the only other place where KIM is mentioned, it is a formula that existed and is also in what was the CEFTE Agreement on Regional Trade. Likewise, the Textile Agreement, as well as what was the treaty on the establishment of an energy community. As for Article 135. I will read it, so that there is no confusion: "This agreement is applied from one side to the territories to which contracts establishing the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community are established and in accordance with the conditions laid down in these contracts and in Serbia's territory, on the other hand." The second paragraph says "This agreement is not applicable in Kosovo and Metohija, which is currently under international administration, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, since 10 June 1999. “ This does not prejudice the current status of Kosovo, nor determine its final position. And here I want to insist, according to the same resolution, that, according to UN Resolution 1244, and to remind you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs, that UN Resolution 1244 repeats and affirms the sovereignty of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija on three occasions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15116	Replica was requested by MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I must admit I didn't know this. I knew the plan of the regime's work, I hope not the whole regime, I'm not sure we'll be able to do it for the next few days, but I was sure that part of the regime had the intention to deceive the citizens of Serbia, to God, by saying that it was interested in preserving KIM within Serbia. Of course, they don't care about that, they need to get the votes on February 3rd in the second round, so they scheduled to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for January 28th, the second day of the Holy Sava. Just somewhere, a day or two ahead of the election silence for the second election round, and then already on February 6th, the European Union will move to recognise the independence of KIM, but they don't care, they've moved into the chair, so it doesn't matter. That was their plan. I now see, unfortunately, all of Serbia's citizens, unfortunately, all of us are in a much worse situation. You, Mr. Djelic, have just read that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement does not apply to Serbia, but to part of Serbia. You, Mr. Djelic, have read that this agreement is not about KIM territory, but about the rest of Serbia, Mr. Djelic. You told us in advance that they do not recognise Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. You'd better not have gone out for this pay phone, Mr. Djelic. It's better than your party corner. Of course it's much worse for Serbia. I don't know what to tell you now, Mr. Djelic, because as a citizen of Serbia, I'm desperate for this. I'm desperate and disappointed with the second part of the regime that I know he knew, and they pretend they didn't know. The question is, what can we do with this now, what is our choice? What are we gonna do? When you signed CEFTU, we told you -- don't single out KIM, even with the UNMIK administration from Serbia, you did, you kept it quiet somewhere in Bucharest, made a celebration on TV for two or three days, as if the citizens of Serbia were going to be much richer, and eventually they didn't get anything. You are now calling for the same agreement and some other agreements from which it is clear that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement does not apply to KIM. Tonight I ask people from parties who are neither coalition partners of the SRS, nor have we ever been like-minded, but here's personally ready to violate party discipline, I might say, honest people like Milan Ivanovic, Marko Jaksic and others -- what are they going to say about this? What's Leon Cohen gonna tell you about this? What will many honorable men of your ranks who called you and who have understood what you have done? Mr. Djelic, did you make that pen to sign it? Have you prepared to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the part of Serbia? Yes, Mr. Djelic, you were getting ready to tell us how nice and smart it is for you to do. Because, based on the example of the non-orbital presidential candidate for Cyprus's story, I don't know who just came up with that story, unblessed, because no one in Europe has confessed, and Kosovo wants everyone to admit, Mr. President of the Republic, or to perform the duties of the President of the Republic or to leave the President, if God so, however you wish. Has anyone informed you that no European country but Turkey has recognised northern Cyprus? And Kosovo, they announce that it will be recognised by all European Union countries. What does it matter, where there's any resemblance to our example and our country? I understand, I have no problem with what the DS is doing, you've always done it, and the citizens of Serbia have always known it. I'm just interested in your reaction, Mr. Samardzic? I asked the Prime Minister to explain to me whether I was right or perhaps Mr. Tadic. If Mr. Prime Minister says that Mr. Tadic is right about the Cyprus case, I will immediately say that I know nothing and that I am no longer in this House. Just let the Prime Minister say I told the lie, not Mr. Tadic. Come out, Mr. Samardzic, tell me if this is true or not, whether you sign it or not. That's what we're interested in, Mr. Samardzic. Your voters, what Branislav Ristivojevic said the day before yesterday, what you've been saying for days won't support it. People who voted for Vojislav Kostunica voted for him by counting on him to love and respect Serbia and Serbia's territorial integrity. I'm asking you, Mr. Samardzic, are you going to sign this agreement that sets out kim or not? Or will you give authority to Bozidar Djelic or not? He had the authority to initialize. Will the government give him the authority to sign or not? I don't ask him anything anymore. I'd ask him about some banks, I don't care. I ask you, will you give him authority or not? Mr. Samardzic, then tell us right away that we are not voting for the resolution. We were waiting for the Prime Minister's answer today and he told us other things, told us this wasn't true. What kind of situation are you putting us in tonight? We don't want to share Serbia, we have one Serbia, we don't want it to be torn apart, but please answer us – is Serbia already split with your pen, with your responsibility, with your authority, or not? If you want to make it that way, we will fight every democratic and political means, but in the most powerful way possible against you, because we are sure that Serbia deserves to be only one, not that we have two, because I don't know what we would call this territory that we have left, because I don't know what we'd call that territory that's leaving us. We don't have two territories, we only have one Serbia and we must never lose that Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15118	Thank you, Alexander Wolf. The word is Dr. Zarko Obradovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from Place: By Business) Moment, Mr Todorovic, I don't understand, I just asked if Alexander Vukic or you would, and you said Aleksandar Vukic. I asked you, therefore, that I realized that you wouldn't either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the right, in the extreme line, to the replica, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15120	Excuse me, please, Mr. Todorovic, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't believe that I would ever get into a situation to thank Bozidar Djelic, and this time I thank Bozidar Djelic for being unconscious, probably unconscious, I suppose, coming out and saying, or confirming what we've been announcing for a long time and claiming to be the essence of the fraud that's coming to us. Well, Mr. Djelic, do you believe that there is one single citizen of Serbia who, based on what you read as a preamble to believe that the EU really is signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia? Well, Mr. Djelic, I don't know where you fell from. Those who agree to come to us with a mission to Kosovo and Metohija without a UN Security Council resolution, you claim they recognise a comprehensive Serbia. Well, Mr. Djelic, I don't know what limits you think you're humiliating us to. This is where you ask each other a question. To me, the attitudes and reasons of DS are quite clear. This is about the DSS. I'm sorry, Mr. Obradovic came out, I thought I'd ask him, but I can do it in a row. Mr Samardzic, Mr Milentijevic, step out of the DSS here and tell us, tell Serbian citizens that what Bozidar Djelic claims is true, that an agreement that applies to comprehensive Serbia is signed, and we will believe. We will say that it is not true all that we have claimed so far, that it is the fruit of a pre-election campaign, we will admit, it is much more important that it is true that it is signed with a comprehensive Serbia, but that we get political points. We'll believe you, come and tell the speaker that's true. Do not hide or because of their political interests to cause irreparable damage to Serbia. If this agreement is only about a part of Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, as it says in this 130th article, then you are directly harming Serbia and you must prevent it. Define here, will Serbia accept to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija or not? That's what you decide tonight. Tell the citizens of Serbia what is true, whether what Bozidar Djelic claims or what the SRS claims. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15122	Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15123	Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am speaking to you because I have tried to tell you from the vice president's post that, knowingly or unconsciously, I really don't know whether it was your intention to brag about the fact that you are ready to give up Kosovo and Metohija, have read something that will not be on the site tomorrow, but a document that says that you can sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement but, as you said, they are calling for UN Security Council Resolution 1244 not to be applied on the part of the territory of the sovereign state of Serbia. You just said that. Both Mr Samardzic and you, as people who have to answer questions, I am calling, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, and I am asking on the basis of Articles 225, 226 and 227. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, that if there is a photocopier in the building, you have drawn up an official document, read it, if it is not there, if it is only you who have it, based on these three members of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the document be multiplied and distributed within half an hour. The fact that you have something under the grain somewhere, and you are willing to, for your millions or for not being touched by the state of Serbia, or by the Serbian people, sell your territory, the southern Serbian province, that's your problem. I demand also as vice-president of the Assembly and as a National MP to immediately copy the service, let one of you take a document or get it, so that we can during the entire debate, throughout the day and the next, everywhere and in every place, and this is our right and obligation, to read to citizens, as you have done here, a document that you are prepared to sign and to betray and sell to the state of Serbia. I thank you, Mr. Mrkonjic, for asking both you and the secretary to provide us with a photocopyed document within the hour, at the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15124	The word has Minister Slobodan Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15125	Dear MPs, a few words of explanation about this, I'd say, a misunderstanding. Look what this is all about. As for the questions asked by Mr Nikolic to the Prime Minister, he will answer that question. The same question was asked by Vukic to me, so I'm not going to answer the question because it's the same question. One explanation is needed on this agreement that has been initialled. Just listen to me carefully, because it's a misunderstanding. The 135th member is a standard member of all agreements Serbia is signing, when it comes to the inclusion of both Kosovo and Metohija in the agreement relationship. A colleague, Djelic, read the article. For the following reason, Kosovo and Metohija have been under international administration since June 1999, under the UN civilian and military administration. The UN civilian administration has the right, according to Resolution 1244, to represent Kosovo in relations with abroad and to sign international agreements applicable to Kosovo and Metohija as territory of the Republic of Serbia under Resolution 1244. Therefore, all these agreements signed thus have a reflection and a consequence of the agreements Serbia is signing. There must be a member that does not refer to Kosovo and Metohija because it cannot be applied to Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Because the Republic of Serbia does not have its own administration over Kosovo and Metohija by Resolution 1244 and cannot implement such an agreement in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that's clear. One analogy I will give, simply, to see that the EU isn't the first time that it works, it's about an agreement that's been initialled, I'm not talking about signing the Agreement, it's something that falls under that 'J', which you'll get an answer to later. The EU signed a accession agreement with Cyprus. The agreement does not apply to the northern part of Cyprus or Turkey's Republic of Cyprus because the EU does not recognise it. So, the EU recognises Cyprus as an entire country, as a country that has its sovereignty and territorial integrity across the whole area, but the contract is only applied to the part of Cyprus' territory that recognises the status, the Greek part of Cyprus. It's the same thing with that agreement, it's the same nature of the agreement and the application. The agreement is not applied in the KIM territory, because it is under the regime of the international community and nothing more. The assumption is, and it says in the last part of Article 135, when the regime of the international community is removed from KIM and established legal status, the sovereignty of Serbia's territory, then the agreement will also apply to KIM. That's an explanation, so they don't make big political controversy based on simple misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15126	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica of Mr Samardzic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15127	Mr. Samardzic, there's no misunderstanding at all. You're taking part in this together with the DS. Now that's completely clear. You say that the EU has signed with the state of Cyprus and that it cannot be applied to the northern part of Cyprus, it is a practical state, but it is about one other thing. You say - according to Resolution 1244. Tell me, is there one thing in line with Resolution 1244 that gives us some rights that we can achieve? What do we have, Mr Samardzic, and what rights do we have based on Resolution 1244, which you have also advocated as part of the negotiating team? Mr. Prime Minister, what did you do under Resolution 1244, of those dots that we have the right, manage to fight to apply to Serbia? You here are literally only aboliating in advance, giving one part of the anesthesia to the people by giving it a wording that is approximately – how, in some ways, you are delaying this second part that will come right after February 3rd. Mr. Samardzic, you're a serious man. The scenario is completely clear, regardless of who will be elected president of Serbia. I believe it will be Tomislav Nikolic, but then it will be the EU's reason, or America to say -- in Serbia, a radical has been elected president of Serbia, so it will move towards KIM independence. If Boris Tadic is re-elected, then it will be done, because you said in advance you would do nothing, you will slowly add a little more anesthesia to accept it. The problem is that you know all of this, because if it weren't for that, it wouldn't have been the wording that it was with the DS, when you brought your coalition partner in a position to express the NATO Pact and the EU clearly, not only in terms of signing the Agreement, but in terms of EU membership, you were declared that we would give up our aspirations for the EU and EU membership. Now you're explaining to us that it's a standard formulation that stems from Resolution 1244. I don't think that's correct, because with this you're complicit in the fraud that's coming to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15128	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, to prepare Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15129	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, we Members of the SPS believe that the greatest value of this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution we are discussing tonight will be either its greatest content, if adopted unanimously or if possible by the support of all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The unity of political forces, however that word sounds, is more necessary in Serbia today than ever, because now, when it comes to the most important state issue, which is KIM territory, we are almost in the same situation as February, in March 1999. We're under direct pressure, so-called. The international community and demand are the same as in 1999, to give up KIM and admit that this territory belongs to someone else. What's the same thing, and what's different about 1999, when it comes to kim? Under one, the state policy on KIM today is the same as in 1998,1999, believe it or not, regardless of changes in political forces in Serbia, the fact that the former opposition now organises power in Serbia. Under two, the attitude of individual Western countries, led by the United States towards Serbia and the problem of KIM is now the same as in the late 1990s, in 1999, regardless of the change in political forces in Serbia. Under three, the relationship between Albanians or members of the Albanian KIM community to Serbia is now the same as in 1999, regardless of changes in political forces. Under four, negotiations in Vienna or elsewhere, where they were or should be, are now the same as they were in Rambouje in 1999, regardless of changes in political forces. Under five, the opposition's behaviour is different now than in 1999, honoring the exceptions back then, but the current opposition has this state-of-the-art nerve that others don't have. We Socialists, we are opposition to this government, but we are not opposition to the state, the people, and God forbid, we are not opposition to KIM. The opposition then claimed that KIM is a minority issue, a human rights issue. We have since the beginning, since then and now claimed what it is – that it is a territorial issue and that the ultimate goal of KiM is to gain independence. In the presentation that we heard tonight from the Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, and Mr Tadic, a difference or at least, if the difference is a strong word, very clear nuances compared to this joint resolution. Mr Tadic, the president of Serbia says -- we didn't have a negotiator in the negotiations. The Albanians avoided the topic of negotiations, if I was able to write it well. Mr Kostunica, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, says - through the will of the United States and several Western countries, the work of the UN Security Council has been blocked to find a compromise solution or, quote: "The US has decided that no further negotiations can be made". Gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the DS, DSS, G 17, NS, all that is now the representatives of this coalition, and the president of the state and the Prime Minister, spoke individually or in particular, we spoke in 1999; both of the policies of the Western countries and of the conduct of the Albanian side, and therefore we were punished. We were punished because we didn't want to give up the works of our territory as compensation for maybe removing sanctions, as compensation for not being bombed or some other blackmail. Why am I saying this? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, documents since 28 September 1998, the National Assembly for the discussion of the current situation on Kosovo and Metohija adopted the following conclusions (quote only one member): "The National Assembly expresses an indignation that certain significant factors in the international community deliberately overlook the fact, expose Serbia and the SRJ to constant pressures, threats and blackmails of various species, abuse of the United Nations and, in particular, the Security Council, in order to achieve their objectives, by proposing measures that directly endanger the sovereignty and integrity of the SRJ. “ Does this sound familiar to you, and isn’t this the same as it says in the resolution we are considering tonight? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia document, 4 February 1999, discussed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the attitudes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the issue. "A part of the international community has not, by any act, unreservedly condemned separatism and terrorism. No act has prevented the Republic of Albania from being a logistics base for terrorists and separatists in Kosovo and Metohija. The European Security and Co-operation Organisation has not completed 2000 verifiers in Cosmet for three months and has not been fully qualified for impartial and accurate reporting of the international public and international organisations on the truth in the field. It is true that from the signing of the agreement, there has been an escalation of terrorism by the verifier. A part of the international community has been running a policy of double standards all the time, preventing any and the easiest attempt to condemn terrorist gangs by the United Nations Security Council. Such behaviour of the international community's work is, in fact, support for assistance, encouragement for separatists and terrorists. “ Do you know, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, does this dictionary resemble what it says in the resolution that we are discussing today? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia document, March 23, 1999, means the day before the bombing. In France, it's about Rambuje, the negotiations. (I quote the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. ) "In France instead of direct negotiations and a genuine effort to reach a political agreement on essential broad autonomy, instead of peace and political solution, a dictatorship, counterfeits, threats, blackmail and NATO troops were offered. The National Assembly regrets that international mediators, as well as co-chaired talks in Rambuje and Paris, have found no way to convince a delegation of the separatist movement to sit at the same table with the state delegation. There was no discussion between the two delegations. Does this, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, remind you of the content of the report we had in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last year, 2006? The same National Assembly document found that the fault for the failure of talks in Rambujeu and Paris cannot be attributed to the state delegation of Serbia, which throughout the whole time insisted on a direct conversation and agreement, but is the fault exclusively on the foreign delegations of the separatist and terrorist movement and on those who allowed them such behaviour, and their signature under which they did not want to talk for a minute with the state delegation of Serbia and yet declared it a comprehensive agreement. "The agreement has not been reached because the separatist-terrorist delegation of Albanians avoids direct talks, because it does not give up on separatist goals, aims to achieve the state in the country through autonomy, in the form of implementation of the political agreement, to ensure occupation in Serbia, in the form of human rights and democracy, to create ethnically clean Kosovo, and with the help of its mentors through the international protectorate and referenda, to the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia." I will add just one more position to this by fellow MPs: 'It is an unprecedented criminal act in international relations and creating alibis for new threats and pressures on our country, forced in Paris, and in the American direction. The United States has thus openly placed itself on one side, diplomatically, politically and militaryly putting NATO's pact into alliance with separatists and terrorists." Fellow Members of the People, does this look like the contents of the text that we have received and that we are discussing tonight? The resolution that we are discussing tonight, said Article 1: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia found that the Albanian side avoided actually negotiating in the same way as it did in the first phase conducted by M. Ahtisaari. The main reason for its obstruction is in the view of some Western states that Kosovo should gain independence. Due to this attitude of the Western states, there was no real incentive for the Albanian delegation to seek a compromise solution in the negotiation process... 'Station 2 says, '... that some Western states strongly oppose the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, which has made it impossible for the Security Council to find a compromise solution to this issue." Or, point 5 when he says -- the Council of Security for Conduct when he refuses any initiative, not to mention bombings or anything like that. Dear fellow Members of the People, I think I've found some very likely documents that are in favor of the issue I presented tonight. The situation is the same and needs to be asked what it is that is the reason that the US and some Western countries are running such a policy towards our country with the intention of kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. In order to potentially naively lead the situation to think more seriously about this issue, I will purposely say possibly naive, only to quote tonight a letter to Mr. Willy Wimmer, vice-president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in the period 2000, otherwise a right-wing MP in the German parliament, who wrote a letter to the Federal Chancellor, Mr. Shredder, on May 5, 2000, showing him the content of talks in Bratislava, which was attended by representatives of the State Department, the Institute of Democracy of the Republican Party, as well as the heads of government and the heads of state of individual countries. He informs Mr. Schrader of the state of play and the conclusions of the conference. "The conference's organisers have asked for the international recognition of an independent Kosovo to be carried out as quickly as possible in an ally's circle. The organisers said that the SRJ is located outside every legal order, and above all beyond the Helsinki final document, that, not downplaying the importance of the subsequent legal intervention of Europeans, it was only an exception through the expansion of NATO's tasks across the border of the occupied area against Yugoslavia, it is clear that it is a precedent that everyone will call upon at a time when they will be called. Each process should give priority to the right to self-determination in all other provisions of international law. “ And in the end, the finding that during the attack on the SRJ NATO has violated all international rules, especially all relevant provisions of international law, and that no one has challenged it at the meeting. Mr. Willy Wimmer concludes that the American side is conscious and ready in a global context to achieve its objectives undermining the international legal order, which was created as a result of World War II in the last century. The force should be above the law, where international law stands in the way, should be removed. It's the American administration's position. I mentioned this because I wanted to remind some of what happened in 1999 and 2000 and after 2000, because this document was written in May 2000. It's the end of 2007, the situation hasn't changed for Iota either. The aggression against our country was carried out in 1999 on the grounds that human rights violations of Albanians were prevented and ethnic cleansing prevented. Now no one mentions human rights. I'll remind you it's so-called. The international community is moving towards resolving the Kosovo issue by promoting the principle – standards and status. When it was seen that these standards had nothing to do with it, it became status, and no one talks about standards. Who wants to read what the situation is about standards should take the reports of Mr Mark Novicki, the UN Human Rights Ombudsman, who, in six reports, made it very clear and precise that the situation in Kosovo is worse than ever, and the rights of those who are not Albanians cannot be spoken at all. Take a look at Kai Aide's report, UN Secretary General's special envoy, and get the information for these eight years of international military and civilian presence, you will see that no more than two percent have been returned. Why am I bringing this up? Because we need to be aware of the situation we are in and the policies of the West. I'm not saying this by accident. I think that, knowingly or unconsciously, this topic is being avoided tonight, it's about integration, it's about Kosovo and Metohija, and it's hiding the fundamental question -- whether we all want to join the EU without Kosovo and Metohija or not. We Socialists say we will join the EU, as we said in 1990 and 1999, but not without Kosovo and Metohija. Whoever wants to join the European Union without Kosovo and Metohija should go out for this pay phone and say so. But it would be fair not to put this issue to the referendum, as we want to bring to the referendum and the issue of NATO membership, so let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say. It is a very simple question and a clear answer, yes or no, whether you want the European Union, that promised future that has been gone for years, with or without Kosovo and Metohija, so you will get an answer to that. Then we'll see if it's a personal committee of individuals and political parties or a truly state-of-the-art policy. And this will pass, but people will remember us tonight and tomorrow and the day after what we said, by what we do. We all have our own name and name and belong to one political option. We also have a face and I hope that most will keep it on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, that is, the future of Serbia. And finally, I think that Mr Kostunica mentioned it, but he thinks it's bad that in this resolution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no one position, nothing would make it possible for this resolution to stand, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia thanks to the parliaments of friendly countries, heads and states and governments, individuals who understand and accept the position of Serbia and who respect the organisation of the United Nations and are seeking negotiations based on Resolution 1244 and insisting on a compromise solution. I think this attitude was needed because of all those states, those governments, individuals and those people who risked a lot to get into Serbia's protection, and in '99. years and now. I think it's the least we owe them, and it's not here tonight. As far as our socialist is concerned, we think it should be an integral part of this declaration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15130	Thank you, Dr. Zarka Obradovic. The word is Dr. Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Vice-President, honourable ministers, dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Union of Roma Serbia supports the resolution on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. We once again show and confirm in this way our living and unbreakable relationship with Serbia, whose sovereignty comes from the citizens. In that sense, I am free to say, there are no large and small states but only equally legal with mutual respect and respect. The amount of rights to the scale of justice is always the same. Encouraged by one political wisdom, in which our party found inspiration and support for its programme and programme orientation, let me say the following. If we are allowed to live as honest people and free citizens, we can be expected to be ready to become true peacekeepers and ready to develop co-operation with both neighbours and European countries and with the world, even if we share with others what we lack. If, on the other hand, someone dares to strike our honor and dignity, then it is publicly confirmed and proved to be without honesty, that is, without awareness of responsibility, which means unrelenting and willing to go to the hands of those relationships from which only evil, who is willing to deny and take away our freedom, is inevitably affecting the meaning of our lives. Therefore, some reactions from our country, which sometimes, for no reason whatsoever, are regarded as hard and cruel, are conditioned, and are rarely challenged, by plans and intentions of foreign forces only by applying an armed injustice which, let us not forget dear colleagues and colleagues, even wiser Aristotle has defined as the most cruel injustice. In politics, however, things are not seen or solved in terms of eternity, but in the best case scenario of history. The world of yesterday is not the world of today, but of course the questions and the world of yesterday are inevitably being asked today. Kosovo, however, is not only a foreign policy issue but also a first-class issue of Serbia's internal policy. In this regard, I will say again in the spirit of one wisdom -- gentlemen, turn our heroes into citizens, and our citizens into heroes and give us wisdom so that Serbian becomes the language of democracy so that the whole world understands us. Serbia above all debs and villages, it is, for example, the largest historical and literary topics from Serbia and the Serbian people. That is why it is a condition for this resolution to gain the power of virtue and weapons, to become Serbia's shield and sword as a strong and stable state and a country whose real and true future is Europe. I've never hidden my beliefs or beliefs. I am publicly and openly telling the citizens of our country, Serbia, one of the main pillars and such Serbia, in this time and under these circumstances, is only Boris Tadic. Because Tadic, along with others, can ensure that Kosovo's future depends on Serbia's future. Let us remember, please, from the future of Serbia, not the other way around, as others would like. In this and such Serbia, there is room for all who are determined to defend its independence and freedom, for all those who advocate the rule of law and social justice, for all those who hold to the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, for all those who are in mind and in the heart belong to European principles and values. A clever conversation is a paradise garden, says an old wisdom. In the spirit of this saying, we should begin the urgent work and tasks tomorrow to redecorate and improve political life in our country and build democratic institutions and institutions, economic life and production and technical conditions, in order to employ as many people as possible, especially young, highly educated, to reconfirm morals and moral principles, to reaffirm human values and ideals without which life is a waste. Let me finish by saying – Serbia has no one but the sun and us, to paraphrasise Branko Miljkovic. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking for and let's not stand up until we find what we have in common, which brings us together and separates us from each other, and builds each other, not only politically but even morally and human. Once we're sure that we've crossed our own borders and evil, we'll be able, I believe, to fight tirelessly and against other people's evil, and that's where we'll be able to crown by victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15132	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the Republic, the honourable ministers, the chosen words speak about Kosovo and Metohija, that everyone who truly cares about this part of Serbia and who has a fundamental respect for everything that it represents in our historical memory. That's why a man can't understand where such attitudes come from, where such politicians who have nothing sacred, and not 15 per cent of the Serbian country, who are almost infuriating over the problems Serbia is facing today, which are more important than the pre-election campaign. And is there anything more important that we should all agree on than the question of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state in which we live? Do we all feel the historical moment we're in? Are we aware of our own responsibility to the ancestors who created our country and the descendants we leave the country to? What do we leave in their sights? Do we dissension and neglect toward the state and the people? Has this eroded the feeling of national consciousness most strongly expressed with Serbs, is this the disappearance of the unity of the national soul, as Jovan Cvijic wrote about his time and his people? Gentlemen who, speaking of Kosovo and Metohija, are inclined to remind us of some dates and some events, I would say that it would be more appropriate for them to remind us that on this day 60 years ago in the Nevada desert, the first hotel was founded as a product of organized crime, business and politics and symbolising the system of values you stand for. What I'm about to read is precisely for those who have been in every historical period, and who will always be, who measure themselves, who explain themselves to themselves and who can't understand themselves. The text was published in "Politica" on January 1st 1913, written by Isidora Sekulic, and I will read only a few sentences. "What was our 1912 year? It was a year of creation, because creation is the root of life. It was the year when faith ceases to be a shallow hypocrisy and joys are no longer everyday sins, the year when it was proven that the characters are not drained in the heart and that the Kosovo symbol is not a stiff picture. We were the ones who had happy days and happy nights, we were the land of old heroes and young soldiers, we wrote the history of 1912." In 1912, as is known, Kosovo and Metohija, the old Serbia and reunited Serbia, were released. Vojislav Tankosic's committees began, and the Serbian army ended this venture. The generations of those 1912s created history, we, ladies and gentlemen, are creating today. We have no right to behave differently than to support any document arising from the Constitution of Serbia and international law. For DSS and NS MPs, the resolution can consist of only one sentence: Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia and can never be otherwise. I belong to New Serbia, a party for which it is not only a political stance, but a lofty feeling that you either have in you almost genetically or you don't have it and you can never get it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15134	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Belic. The word is Nenad Prokic, and let Vladan Batic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15135	Mr. President, respected colleagues, today in Parliament is overcome by some kind of flag and disinterest on the topic that is under discussion, and this is because the topic of the pace is passing, Kosovo is no longer the main topic. Kosovo has been out of Serbia for years, and after a hundred years, a disastrous Serbian policy has failed. Following the resolution of the State Negotiation Team, the main theme is Serbia's overall future and the government's strong anti-European stance, through which it unequivocally instrumentises Kosovo, to sell fog in another term. The negotiating team only didn't think of the Maltese order, because they have sovereignty without territory. That would probably be something they could use for their solutions. One patriotic attitude was needed higher than Kosovo and the whole of Russia, not an isolationist policy within which all citizens of Serbia are hostages of Kosovo, for which Serbia has neither the intellectual nor the material power to return it. It takes a healthy human thought and a strengthening of the world of value, not the old one and how many times already abused melancholy. The systematic view of Kosovo is: the old world dies, a new one is born. In that birth, I am sorry, Mr. President, for the global forces of the world. The only good solution is that solution that excludes selfish and violent interactions, which includes tuning into the birth of a new Europe, a new Serbia, a new Kosovo and the environment that gives both Serbs and Albanians the chance to have a new life and to make a much greater decision on their future. Everything else is the same warring poverty that put us all together and still threw us into the jaws of selfish interest groups that work for themselves and stretch the whole society. And Russia is a global force. We highly appreciate all the achievements it has achieved, and we respect most that it has saved the world from fascism, the world, Europe, Serbia and Belgrade. The street of King Milan, right below, was paved in October 1944 by the dead bodies of fearless Russian soldiers, who freed our city. They're all heroes to us, and that will be forever. Russia is not Europe's political future, Russia is not Serbia's political future. Russia is Europe, Mr Micunovic, but it is not Europe, not even today, as it has never been in the past. Russia will not master the basic lessons of democracy for another hundred years. Is this a new 100-year wait some price Serbia needs to pay? Those who wrote the resolution are silent, they said nothing of that price, and Mr. Kostunica's condescending attitude towards Russia is a disgrace to someone who sings so much about sovereignty. And the summer view of the political history of Russian-Serbian relations points unequivocally to the conclusion that Russia never considered Serbia an important ally, but often acted openly against Serbian interests. After the Kolubar battle, she insisted that parts of Macedonia be given up to Bulgaria. After the Sanstefan Peace, she said she would represent her and Bulgarians, even if Serbian interests arrived, and then Bizmark represented our interests. At the time of the Turkish-Russian and Serbian-Turkish wars, it was Russia who returned the Serb army from Kosovo, claiming that Mitrovica is a strategic key for Bosnia and Serbia cannot hold it for it. I will finish part of the letter on Russia by Ilia Garashanin, because all of you here together are not as great Serbs and nationalists as he was. So, says Ilija Garashanin: "And what I care about most is whether I suffer or not Russia, I don't eat bread with Russian teeth, I don't actually take credit for Russia, but for my own and even more of my ancestors. When my father fought for the freedom of my motherland today, when he shed his blood for it in fact, he didn't even know if there were any Russians in the world. Those same Russians are the reason, they want me to be their slave and their servant, but I won't be. When I notice that Russia can dispose of my well-being, then I'll only feel sorry for him. These thoughts are not baseless and Russia should disprove them, so I will be ashamed. Russia would like to destroy everything that seeks for the progress of Serbia, and the intentions are obvious, but even if it does, I am not the work and that happens with our help." So listen to the words of the Garashans and don't stick to that glue that hasn't glued to it 150 years ago. You who in Serbia turn to the selfish Russian bureaucrats who have become rich by taking away from the hunger of their unfortunate people, and by which many of you are alike, listen to his words. You who dreamt of alliances with Russia and Belarus and you who make high treason by calling for us to become Russian Governor, you who do all the things you've done for us so-called. The pro-Westerns were falsely accused, and then you took a truly patriotic view of the cloudy sky again over Serbia and wondered if she had more power to endure the echoes of your outdated world views. Thank you. Thank you and the radicals for the constant throw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15136	I thank the People's Messenger, Nenad Prokic. Dr. Batic, you don't have time anymore, but I'm giving you three minutes. Please be prepared, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, in order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, I will report to the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for an answer to a few questions, because what's happening to us today is like watching a time machine, that cult show, "It happened today. '"We talked about this in 1990, 18 years ago, only with changed roles. I said this resolution should have answered that question – where will the citizens of non-Albanian nationalities be when the EU and the United States recognise independent Kosovo. What are you offering them? Perhaps Mr. Djelic offers to build some apartments through his partner from the tobacco mafia for their accommodation, perhaps your tycoons offer something else. Let's hear the answer to that question, because what we hear today, one part of the government wants power and one part of Kosovo, the other part of Europe and Kosovo, and you, Mr. President, are defending power, Kosovo and a shy Europe, and where are the citizens, where are the people, where is the people? It's just government and territory. All of what you're doing reminds you of the story of cricket and ant, for years you've played along with geese and sang that Kosovo will forever be ours, and now that the time has come you have no answer to these essential questions. To make it quite simple, how we might want to join the EU that has already announced that it will recognise Kosovo's independence, while Serbia will be in the EU as a whole. It's incompatible. Let's decide what our path is and let's just tell the citizens with the kiM what they're offered. Mr. President, you may not be interested in this, I am talking to you, and here is Mr. Micunovic, to interrupt the chat, do you know that 2,500 Trepce workers receive more than two years of 30 euros a month, including engineers and people who are competent, 30 euros a month. The prime minister received a gold plaque the other day for the celebration of the 1980s, Trepce. Why? Of those who manage Trepco and who have robbed between 60m and 100m euros in the last two years. What about poor paradise? To answer that, don't distract us anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15138	Thank you, Dr. Vladan Batic. The word is Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, let Dr. Zarko Korac prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15139	Respected citizens of Serbia, dear colleagues, who are attacking and there is no resistance, will never stop. It's our job to show resistance. I am an SRS MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, who lived with her family in Pristina by June 14th 1999. Since June 14th, I've been living in Novi Sad. I'm just one of over 250,000 people today who are called exiled, evasive, internally displaced. In Pristina and Kosovo, I have no personal enemy. I left good neighbors there. This is how I introduce myself when I go as a member of congregation organizations to international institutions, my colleagues who I go there with know that well. There they invite us to talk about joining, about how the Council of Europe works, to take their experiences in the functioning of financial institutions, but they tell us – good afternoon, forget the past, turn to the future, and what you will do when Kosovo becomes independent. That's how I do it, as a member of the SRS, and that's how those who promise us a bright future. I wonder, my fellow citizens, are you aware that enough effort has been made to make every place in the world and wherever we go, enough has been done to hear why me and many like me today don't live on KIM. I don't live in Pristina because no Serb lives there anymore. I have personal courage and personal honesty to stay with my neighbors. There are no more Serbs in Prizren. Many cities are like that. From my apartment, dear colleagues, Shiptar took away everything I've created for years, my things, but also my memories as a spoil of war. Is it called an individual human right that America and Europe and those who set the conditions for joining NATO, or is the individual right of the Serbian, the mother of three children and many of me alike, less important. If there was no law, and if the state didn't have the courage to let those who burned our houses and moved us from the country punish us by law and sue international organisations, we were left to ask ourselves whether their god would punish them for the sin they have inflicted on us. Please, you, for whom this is science, a polygon of proof, do you know international law, to realize that this is life for us. For you, it could be stuff and property. For me, it's not just memories, it's my life, it's the ancestors who stayed in the country and whose bones we have no intention of moving. It's not just material property. That's the hope of all of us going back there. It's an obligation. Can the kidnappers live peacefully, and if we who are obliged to tell them that the fighting must stand in the way, we should keep quiet. Should we surrender in advance without all the diplomatic methods that are necessary for taking over in one country, what is Serbia like at the moment? I know my personal loss and the loss of many of us is just one of the scars I'm going to be able to live with. But I want to ask the basic question, I'm for the kidnapping of the apartment, and you take things and memories and hope that I'll come back and file a lawsuit. The first indictee is Iljaz Radovanci, Pristina municipality's second indictee, Kosovo's Interim Institutions, the Pristina-based Kosovo government and the fourth indictee are the UN, the UN Interim Mission in Kosovo, UNMIK, the International Security Force. I believe that sometimes, one day, if the reputation and international law are not brought down as the last bed of protection, personal security, life and security of all, as well as Serbs, as well as any man in the world, if not brought down by violence against Kosovo. I wonder who to sue by Markovici, Spasici, Tomanovici, Kovacevici, Jovici, Kurtesi, Gorani for the killed, disappeared, never found, for the burned, for the collapsed, leveled with the ground. Who's gonna convince me and them that territory and property are undefined. Who will explain to us that the state has not tried to protect its borders, because within these limits are our fields, our orchards and our collapsed houses? The state lost the opportunity, missed the opportunity, kept quiet, didn't want to accuse either those who bombed or those who bombed Yugoslavia without cover in international law. But today, when someone is trying to convince me that the power of those who attack is reason enough for us not to resist, I ask you, dear colleagues: power without justice, you know what it's called? Tyranny. It's not called the international world order, it's called tyranny. We must not bend our heads before that power. We do not seek love, we must earn respect in order to survive as a people, so that as parents, we can rejoice in future generations. We must not close our eyes, for out of mine own eyes, and where I will go out of mine, but into other people's, alive in the earth, the soul goes to heaven. And where are we gonna live waiting for us to come back if someone's lying to me that Resolution 1244 doesn't guarantee territorial security? It's guaranteed. And Annex 2 guarantees, territorial sovereignty and borders of this country, guarantees. And the Constitution, dear colleagues, obliges you to apply all the Constitution-guaranteed protection rights, not the stories they tell you to speak, we fight for the people, and where will the people live? How many safe houses Mr. President needs to ensure that those who suffer violence are placed in such houses. We don't need that. We need to save our country for our children. Taking care of people is the same thing as caring about state borders. And don't, please, put in the same plane those who help those who hurt us and those who stand behind us not only because of us, but also because of us. I'm talking about the EU, I'm talking about Russia. Russia is a great country. Russia has a rich history, it has raw materials and rich sources, it's a big country, it's its meaning. Fortunately for us, its historical significance today requires that it take on both historical roles and not only because of Serbs, but because such a case can mean that there is no security peace in the whole world. Don't say -- that political influence and that economic power in raw materials is trying to take positions here. So, what's the matter with you East? What's your problem with Russia? They didn't occupy us with Austrian banks, foreign capital! This investment of capital, I've never heard of anyone being afraid that this here would be the sphere of influence of those and such, or you're murmuring that there's a military base in Kosovo, Bondsteel, so those who'd like to advocate protecting international rights as the last wake of the defence of humanity's morality and those who would invest here are those to whom we want to secure influence? No, I just want as a member of the SRS, as a mother of three, as a cousin of Tabakovic who lives at the entrance to Pristina, as a friend, as a friend, as a neighbor of many who have lost loved ones and whom no one can make up for, that I can look everyone in the eyes and say the word I'm saying is motivated by the responsibility of mother and participant in political life, that I say this to those who have a point of proof – this is our life and no one has the right to take care of our future. No one has the right, especially those where we go to visit, and they say forget the past, and then lead us to visit their historical sights, which are just talking about such a revolutionary past. They are full of signs and fond memories of their glorious history, and they make us forget that history. We have no reason to be ashamed of that history. Please, dear colleagues, to realize that we must be responsible as people and to make the commitment we take here, as Tomislav Nikolic asked you to, that at least in the final word, you tell the truth, that there should be no double interpretation. One great poet said: a man who speaks lies is not a man but a liar. We must not deceive anyone because of future generations and do less than we have to, and we must resist diplomatically and not warly, because if they are angry, and there is no resistance, believe me, they will not stop until they reach Belgrade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15140	Thank you, Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic. The word has Dr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15141	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs, some have said that today's session will be historic, and it is hard to see anything historic in today's session. The main reason is not that MPs are divided about this topic being discussed, but that the resolution is drawn up in a way that shows that we do not have any consistent policy on the Kosovo issue. If you do not trust this assessment, then see how the three parties who spoke today interpreted this resolution. Representatives of one party said it actually supports European integration, representatives of the other party said the territorial integrity of the country is more important than any European integration, and representatives of the third party in the government said the resolution was no good, but they will vote for it anyway. So, if this is a consistent state policy, then it cannot be covered by the need to preserve the government or end the presidential elections at this rather difficult moment for Serbia. They show that there is really disagreement among partners over which way Serbia should go further. This is a very serious issue today in front of all Serbian citizens, I would say that it is bigger than the Kosovo issue, does the government have one consistent policy today? In the motion for a resolution, however, it is very clear that a break in European integration is possible, that it is possible that it is a price that we will gladly pay for what is said to be taking away Kosovo from us. If we wanted to speak honestly about Kosovo politics, without entering its long history, which has not lasted just since 1912, as someone here said, then we should have talked about the responsibility of the policy that led to it. I am not quite sure that members of the ruling coalition should feel great satisfaction that more SPS representatives here with quite convincing arguments have shown that there is a continuity of the policy they have been leading in relation to the Kosovo issue and have read their resolution and decisions that should, in fact, confirm that. If we want to speak honestly about the Kosovo problem, we had to condemn the policy that led to the situation we came to, and above all to the lost war in 1999 and the Kumanovo Agreement. No one here mentions the current situation in Kosovo. Everyone's talking about what they want. In the politics of people who speak exclusively of what they would like, and not of what they can accomplish, and of the causes of what they can't accomplish, I'm afraid they're doomed to repeat history, and in this case, the fact is, regardless of what's going down, and no matter what it's hard to admit, that Serbian politics in Kosovo has been broken for the last 90 years. There have been periods where Kosovo has been more integrated into Serbia and later in Yugoslavia, but today the territory is practically beyond the authority of the Republic of Serbia. Here, of course, there is one question that no one has asked. The issue is very important, if someone advocates a non-democracy, autocratic Serbia, he has no problem with Kosovo, he thinks that force and the armed way can be solved, as tried and as failed. But they, and of course there are those in this room, are the majority, who advocate a democratic solution and the construction of Serbia, they know perfectly well that it is impossible to ignore the absolute majority of Kosovo's citizens, and these are Albanians who no longer want to accept another reality than the one that was created in 1999 when, practically, Kosovo, at least in terms of governance, if not formal sovereignty, is excluded from the Republic of Serbia. So, as the democratic society ignores the opinion of the absolute majority on one territory and on the territory that has already been given to manage another. Then how can Serbia be built as a democratic society when we have it here in front of us. It seems to me that these are not at all easy questions and that they are looking for political maturity, that they are asking to speak openly about what kind of policy has been broken here. The problem here is that in the resolution, the political ideas that led to the collapse and departure of Kosovo under Serbia's sovereignty or only the formal sovereignty of Serbia and those ideas that go forward. Since there's not much time left, I'll just say this for a little while. Here, in fact, a whole new policy for Serbia is being opened in the resolution, for the first time since 2000, which is self-insulation and confrontation policies with the direct environment in which Serbia is located, which is the EU. That we, dear friends, are not fooling ourselves, there are no countries in Europe that have none, or that are not members of the EU or that have a very serious relationship with the EU. Don't just cite an example of Iceland, Norway or Switzerland, because it is quite difficult to compare it with today's Serbia for historical and many other reasons. What is essential here is that we are being opened for the first time by a real alternative policy in Serbia and then by representatives of the SRS are completely honest and open-minded about the policy. They do not send a message that European integration is needed. They are looking for relying on Russia, as you have heard several times today from this pay phone and their presidential candidate said, besides, I don't know if he meant it seriously, that his personal favorite would be that Serbia is just one more fluent Russia. It's certainly politics. We cannot reconcile such a policy with the desire for European integration. This motion for a resolution is trying to calm down and it's impossible to reconcile. And lastly, the only way to integrate Kosovo into Serbia is by entering the EU. There's no other alternative. Only when the borders become irrelevant, when the protection of human rights is achieved in all parts of these two territories, when material and human rights are guaranteed, the right to return, the right to property, the things people here have emotionally mentioned, have the right to mention, have the right to seek it. Serbia, of course, must and should protect the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and its cultural and historical monuments, it is not controversial, but it cannot ignore the already existing reality we have in Kosovo. Only by entering the EU can we reintegration in another way, the way that exists today in the largest part of Europe, where the national state is not lost, but its sovereignty becomes very limited by voluntary surrender of that sovereignty to an institution such as the EU. There's something exactly the opposite here. The only way to integrate Kosovo into Serbia, by entering Kosovo and Serbia into the EU, is put here as an alternative policy. Indeed, to the very end, I must say, I am really interested, those who do not want to go to the EU, those who think Russia will help us answer my question – how they see Kosovo reintegration into the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15142	Thank you, Dr. Žarko Korač. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vučićevic, but before him, according to the Business, the word is Rajko Baralić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15143	I apologize to my colleague Vukicevic, Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if that army had lost that war, then there would have been no Resolution 1244, and if that army had lost that war we wouldn't have talked about today. You, Mr. Koraq, were the Deputy Prime Minister, who, among other things, was responsible for one of the most respectable military forces in the region. Today, Mr. Korać, after seven years of that time there is no Drin Division, there is no Užički and Kragujevska Corps, there is no First and Second Army, today, Mr. Korać, there is no major factor in this army, and that is a factor of deterrence. If that army had lost the war, they would have gone down, not brought a resolution, and I'm saying this on behalf of all those who believe they're doing the most honorable job that a man can do in life, to defend his country, who do it in the most honorable way possible. So, that army didn't lose the war. The democratic power in Serbia has lost its position to survive Resolution 1244, Mr. Korac. It's not the same. It's not the same. There are no soldiers from Visegrad to Gornji Milanovac today. Today in Chačka where he was 200 years old, the regiment grows weed. This country can no longer scare anyone to come to its borders, because you retired every water commander and every commandant and every battalion commander and regiment who participated in the last war. You retired, conducting an informal lustration, anyone who's interested in that trade. It's not enough guarantee Garmispartnerchen, it's not enough. It takes people who know how to do it. You have no one to trust today to defend the country. You sent the police to the border, Mr. Koraq, in Uzic there's a police charge of 50%, because they went to the border and kept the border instead of the army you retired. So, on behalf of all those who wore uniforms and defended this country, who, by means of the stick and the rope, were taking down planes and tomahawks, in the name of all those who masked all kinds of haystacks, so these upstairs thought they were tearing down tanks, I'm obliged to say this. What was done here, to turn Serbia into a laboratory, to examine the graphite core, to travel the poored uranium, to make a whole country a laboratory to see how long it can last before it becomes a fried country. That's true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15144	Thank you, MP Rajk Baralic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15145	It wasn't the army that lost those wars, but the authorities and those who led that army and sent it to lost battles and lost wars. The Kuman deal is capitulation. It's the end of one illusion, one policy, one crazy strategy. And you are these same army leaders, generals of whom some war criminals have declared heroes, heroes and patriots, assigned apartments of several arias to the Florist. Does anyone know the names of the border guards from those koshara, Đerekara and others who gave their lives for this country? Does anyone know the names of the pilots who set out to oppose the NATO Army? No, no one knows them. They're these nameless heroes who died for this country. What about 22,000 homeless soldiers? They are the result and the product of these lost battles, lost wars. Now we're listening to the same stories again. We're not going to NATO, so what do you want, not you, but those who rule Serbia today, to restore the Warsaw Pact, to return to us Cominterna, you want social property, self-government, first-class parades? Is this the policy we want for Serbia today? So we have to be in agreement with reality. One who disagrees with reality becomes a thing of the past. India, China, Cuba, Chad, Rhodesia, Indonesia, that's not our reality. Europe, the European Union, Christian civilization, this is our reality. Now, we have to choose which of these two, or the shames and indifferences to Indonesia or the European route that Zoran Djindjic led Serbia. There are no two times, there's only one time. This is the variant – give the right blinker and turn left, so that someone may remain in power. It's a policy that doesn't lead anywhere, like these highways that are being built, highways for nowhere. And those who go somewhere spill bombs on them. It's the result of this policy that's being conducted today, just for the sake of the preservation of power. You cannot be in the EU today, which wants to recognise Kosovo's independence and fight to preserve territorial integrity, especially cannot lie to people anymore, regardless of what the future of KIM is. It has to be fair to say where these people are going and where Serbia is going in February 6th or I don't know what February.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15146	Thank you, Dr. Vladan Batic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and then I hope he gets the word Dr Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15147	Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm reporting under Article 31. Rules of Procedure and Rule 104. Your obligation is, you have violated the Rules of Procedure as Vice-President of the Assembly, who chaires at this time in the absence of Oliver Dulic, to protect the National Assembly and to respect dignity, as well as anyone who reports for this discussion, for Serbia and the Serbian people today, the most important item of the agenda. We Serbian radicals, all Serbian patriots and all the people in Serbia who do not have a spare homeland, unlike those who are pagan, who have done a lot of harm to our people with their country's policies and sales, cannot bear it nor does it allow our morale, our dignity, above all, to the state and to what is sacred to us, which is to preserve the territory of our country – Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia, Mr Mrkonjic, to make such a mockery to what the heroic Serb people and our Serb army have done for 78 days, defending their country from NATO aggression and from such destruction of everything that is Serbian children, Serbian civilians, the destruction of Serb armies, Serbian factories and schools, Serbian bridges. Should you, Mr. Mrkonjic, be tolerated at the moment when someone in the presence of one of the most famous Serbian generals, who is your fellow vice president of the National Assembly, General Bozidar Delic, speaks of the Serb army. I think it's a shame. And anyone who dares to speak for this speaker at any time about General Delic and General Pavkovic and the generals who are in The Hague, as well as the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who will, of course, destroy this case and who will make justice and justice a victory both for Serbian generals and for those who have been killed by the Cypriot ballistics, which Mrs. Tabakovic spoke of, I think in the spirit in which we started this session, and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, as a future, I am convinced, the elected president of Serbia, who knows what it is and state wisdom, who knows how to protect the national interests, we should continue this session. If such incidents happen again, Mr. Mrkonjic, that some, who have never done anything to protect one inch of the territory of the Serbian country, are so blasphemous about those who are Serbian heroes and heroes, be assured that we will drive ourselves into the business for the next two hours, which was not our intention. But be assured that at this point, I am not only speaking for myself and my colleagues, the honorable people of Serbian radicals, but in the name of all those who cannot return to their centuries-old hearths, in the name of their friends, relatives and Serbs who live all over the planet, if the treasonous authority and the policies they have led as opposition parties in the early 1990s led to that, that NATO did what it did, and that today we come into a situation that by all international means, which we are trying to do and this resolution, we defend our country, because we don't have a spare homeland. Let everyone who dares in the presence of one of the famous Serbian generals, such as General Delic, be ashamed to talk about the bloody struggle, unfortunately, where many people and children have lost their lives defending our homeland, defending what is ours and what we want to get back, where they want to come back and Mrs Tabakovic with their three children and who knows how many hundreds of thousands of Serbs, whose names and last names we do not know at this time, but are Serbs, and those others who are not members of the Cypriot national minority, who have occupied, with the help of your friends, our southern province. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15148	I would like to thank the MP, Ms. Natashi Jovanovic, my colleague, Vice-President of the Assembly. Of course, she was just criticizing me, I accept her criticism. I will not talk about what I did in 1999 and 2000, in order to continue the dignified work of the congregation. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. Dr. Vladan Batic will forgive me, let us maintain our dignity until the end of this session, Mr. Batic, you are at least a gentleman man. Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Tadic, no matter what many think and say they are disappointed and that this is not the historic session of the Republic of Parliament, I still think this is a historic session, for the simple reason that we will bring one document at this session. So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings a document on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. And just because we're going to bring this document, this is a historic session and this is a historic decision for the Serbian people. I would like the opponents of this declaration, those who disagree with her and those who resent her a lot, to say that the country in the world would, if it came to a similar situation (and, of course, small, tormented, tired, economically poor, unable to fight the world's forces with weapons), bring something else (and to protect itself and its territory) but one such declaration, which is only at this moment and possible. What is a small, tormented country right now, a country where 120,000 people suffer from malignant diseases, and 30,000 die, a country that has more than 65 people than 16 years of age? What else can such a country do more than what it does? Many resent the current government if it had done a little bit, if it hadn't done enough, they think they could have done more, only if they were in that place. And what could the Prime Minister have done more? Can we, as a country and as a state, impose sanctions on the United States, impose sanctions on Europe, take them territorially at risk? We can't. At this point, this is the only possible thing the state of Serbia could do. A people who forget their history and forget their past certainly cannot provide a good future. Serbia has its past, Serbia has its own history and Serbia has a historical heritage to boast of. For these reasons, we must not forget it, and with great powers and world powers we cannot resist at this moment, and for these very reasons, we make today's decision as it is. That's what we need to ensure the future. World powers can be played with rubbers, it's not a problem for them. It's easy to take a rubber, wipe the state border of a sovereign small state like Serbia, but we don't have the right to historically, to accept politically and in any way that their playing with rubber and eradicating our borders, it's guaranteed to us by the Constitution and as people we voted for that Constitution. We are obliged to protect this constitution and to provide the tortured Serbian people with a better and more perspective tomorrow. What can we do more at this point? We've had war, we've tried this battlefield, heroically, heroically, against the whole world, but that war is a war that cannot be won. Only greater misery, misery, and what can happen to us. If we go back today, and those who have not lost their loved ones and loved ones can't even have the kind of bitterness that people who have lost their families, without their homes, without their hearths, who had to flee from the space where they lived and have sex in other people's apartments, halls, sheds, etc. That bitterness, us who haven't experienced and that bitter feeling of torment and misery, we don't have, and that's why we can't play with war, because we can't win it. Isolation, we had isolation of the international community and all the misery and misery that one isolation carries with it, we had bonuses, we had dots, shortages of goods, small wages, empty hospitals, no drugs, no instruments. We can't let ourselves get into that situation again. Serbia is once again in such a situation and cannot be pulled out of this situation. The divide with the whole world has not brought anyone good, nor can Serbia do well, but it does not mean that we will support and that we should accept the triggers or get down on our knees and lie down if the world wants to, and the powerful are playing with that rubber, to wipe us out and move our borders. We owe it to the generations tomorrow to inherit us, our politics, the children born today, and the ones born tomorrow, we also tell through the historical heritage of what was happening to us, and to have a clue, a document, on which tomorrow, in some global shift of the world, they can look for what once belonged to their fathers and their grandfathers. And that's our right, and of course tomorrow their legitimate right, that it from the world's powers that took it from their fathers, of course, tomorrow by other globalisation might return. What could we have done in the past to avoid this situation today, and we haven't? We could have returned the taken land, returned the land of the SPC, had its owner and owner. We could have given concessions to all those 50 and 100 years old, to all those who are in Kosovo today, but we're not. What we missed, we missed, but let's not make the same and similar mistakes in the future. What do the citizens expect from us? Citizens expect us to have this very attitude, to protect our sovereignty and our territory. They expect a better life, expect better living conditions, a job for all those who today in Serbia are chasing, wandering and looking for a job to survive the month and day. They expect a job for young people, they expect prosperity, a better, a better future. No one has the right to make a camp out of Serbia, no one has the right to isolate Serbia from the world, no one has the right to destroy bridges of friendship and we as a state of many friends, and there is no interest in politics, even in international, very much friendship. We do what few friends we have, whoever it is, have to appreciate, respect, cherish, and build bridges of friendship. Just by building bridges of friendship, tomorrow our children may be in a better political position than we are today. They may be much easier, along with the friends we're going to build and they're going to continue tomorrow, and if anyone dares to take away our territory, they'll come back tomorrow, but we have to leave that trail, leave a politically written trail, and no one can erase the historical heritage with that tire. I've been in politics for 17 years, living in a city where it's hard to live. In the 1990s, in the fifth and sixth years, many political champions came to Kragujevac and right there, at the Cross, gave speeches. I have to tell some politicians today, and if I don't make some big replicas, they'll remember for themselves, in one party that didn't exist in that period, they had another story then. It wasn't their story like it was today. Today they're criticizing everything this government has done, and only in 1995 and 1996 at the Cross told a story, exactly what this government is doing today. Believe me, if that Cross could talk, he'd cry and talk through tears, and those same politicians would have to bend their heads and be ashamed. I haven't heard what those other presidential candidates are offering Serbian citizens, including me. Today I am an MP, I may not be tomorrow, but I have three children, so I would like to see and hear, apart from the criticism of the government and the negotiating team, what other candidates are offering for the president, what is this future, what can my children expect, because they too are wondering what their children can do, and what can all Serbian children expect, today, tomorrow and in the future. New Serbia, its MPs, its members do not want and we do not consider it normal for any business relationship to break up with the world. The easiest way to break relationships is to break bridges and friendships and business co-operation. Without business co-operation with the world, there is no improvement, there is no prosperity in Serbia. Serbia will be private next year and the privatisation process will be completed. We cannot politically stop the development of private economy, the development of Serbia, and thus the future. We cannot possibly allow those who claim to our territory to take it, and we do not condemn it as an act of dishonesty, inaccuracy to one small, troubled, poor Serbia, which, at one point, was an ally and a friend to those world powers. Therefore, New Serbia's MPs will support and vote in favour of the document that we will vote today, which should also enable all those who, if they dare and take part of our territory, to leave a historic trail tomorrow to young generations and these children who will build Serbia, that they simply, if we are unable to protect, they will protect and bring Kosovo and Metohija back where they belong, and they belong to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15150	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic, and let Zvonko Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Republic is absent, you've been offering us here all day, repeating the same argument for the adoption of this resolution, which is state policy, as if this state policy is enough for itself and as if no one here in this House or the whole country knows that exactly the wrong state policy can be the most dangerous for our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this institution is responsible, but when we talk about responsibility, it is always necessary to stress first and foremost the individual responsibility. As the most responsible individuals for this dangerous policy, which directly introduces us to halt European integration, while at the same time putting Serbs in danger of literally losing ground under their feet, the most responsible individuals for such a dangerous policy are the Prime Minister and President of the Republic. I can understand and do not doubt their good intentions, but you know what they say – the path to hell can be paved by good intentions. It is this tandem that he has offered us, served us, that this resolution makes this country unserious and irresponsible. Unserious, because this resolution exudes primarily anti-Western and anti-European rhetoric, inconclusive, because it does not know international law, and this state policy is constantly calling for it, because as you explain that Serbia can annul acts, the recognition of other countries, just as we cannot undo acts by France, Albania, America or Russia, so these countries cannot undo our acts either. So there is no source of international law that could confirm that. Secondly, I said it was a very irresponsible policy and this irresponsibility is being looked at and in that only one point in this resolution, item 6, you declared the military neutrality of the Serbian state, then, you suggested that if there was an recognition of Kosovo's independence, you would review diplomatic relations, as well as because you yourself tied the Association Agreement to territorial integrity and sovereignty, all together opening up the possibility and the danger of Serbia being in isolation again. To conclude in the end, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution on Kosovo is actually telling us that Kosovo is an excuse for slowing down and suspending European integration in our country and it is discouraging, but what is encouraging is that most citizens do not agree to it and that most of them have who will speak for it, here I primarily think of LDP MPs. Therefore, gentlemen, we will represent the majority who wants a European future, and I really want you to try to reconsider yourself and your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15152	The word has a folk MP, Zvonko Mihajlovic, and let Predrag Stosic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15153	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the process of negotiations on the issue of resolving KIM's final status is over. There was no compromise solution. One side, Albanian, didn't want it. Chances for a new continuation of the negotiation process that would lead to a generally acceptable solution have been reduced to a minimum. For the past eight and a half years, the interests of the great forces have been excruciating, and in particular, the interest of the United States is clear. America built Bondsteel, the largest base in the Balkans, with the right to use it for 99 years, which is the best indication that KIM from the status of the protectorate is turning into a militarist colony. The military base is not a reflection of the strengthening of civil society, but of the creation of a puppet community whose interests are of military strategic importance. Another important interest in NATO and the US is for KIM, Albania and Macedonia to be territories for the disposal of millions of tonnes of chemical, nuclear and other waste from the EU, but also to be a military base for training NATO forces. The EU, or most countries in it, consistently follows the US stance, knowingly destroying the UN Charter, the democratic principles of resolving the problem by peaceful means, respect for the law, respect for internationally recognised borders and others. And what will the EU do when a dozen more new nations appear on the old continent, as the cosmetically precedent will not be a unique case but the beginning of the destruction of the foundations of European principles and democracy. However, what I want to specifically refer to is the topic most plagued by all the people of KIM and especially the remaining Serbs, is the security of KIM after the end of the failed negotiations. We are witnessing ourselves that the continued insistence and even the threat of Albania's side with unilateral moves and possible violence destabilise both political and security opportunities, not only on KIM, but bearing in mind some statements by officials of the Republic of Albania, Albanian leaders in Macedonia and in the south of central Serbia and the situation in the region. Such announcements certainly further discourage the exiled Serbs, and there are more than 250,000 of them, to decide on a possible return to their hearths. When it comes to security in KIM, two aspects are crucial: one is international and the other is internal. It should be said that the international mission, military and civilian, in eight and a half years it has failed to provide even basic human rights for Serbs and other non-Albanians. For what? Because there is no political will, there is no desire to control all negative processes that threaten the security, red tape of international forces, the integration of individuals with structures that threaten security and much more. It is necessary to be honest and to say that the Albanian national community, I mean ordinary people, are not completely safe. Cosmet has organized crime and corruption. The leaders of criminal groups are people who are now very current and prominent politicians on the Albanian side. There are many young Albanians who approach such criminal groups, as about 30,000 enter the labour market every year without any hope of finding a job. The economy is in collapse, extremely poor health care, an inadequate education system and how it affects the criminalisation of KIM. It's estimated that there are more than 100,000 drug addicts in KIM today. The drugs will be sold on traffickers for a while. It's a public secret that the CIA is running drugs in the province, and there's even information from some services that say that there are laboratories at Bondsteel to check the quality of drugs going through the province. The dirty money, which is obtained in this way, is spent on bribing UNMIK officials to finance a transformed so-called. The KLA in the Kosovo Protection Corps, for the purchase of state and social property from the Republic of Serbia, for the purchase of private property, also owned by Serbs. When it comes to the security of Serbs and other non-Albanians, I think it's a well-known thing. First, uncertainty is aggravating factor. One, fortunately, smaller percentage of Serbs, is considering leaving KIM in case of self-proclaiming independence. None of the Serbs have confidence in the existing Kosovo institutions, do not trust the international presence, KFOR and UNMIK, and rightly so. A common phenomenon in the public of a paramilitary formation, which calls itself ANA, i.e. the Albanian National Army, as well as the absence of a conviction by KFOR and UNMIK, is further disturbing the Kosovo Serbs. It often goes so far as to deny their existence. And the CIA on their existence has a full and confidential study on 200 pages, and it says that this organization is well-organized, well-paid and closely linked to the KPC and KPS. On the other hand, the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that the Serbian Army will not, in accordance with its constitutional obligation, defend the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia throughout its territory. In this way, he makes it clear to the Cosmetic Serbs that in the event of the ferocity of Cypriot terrorists, they are left to themselves, that they are left alone to self-organize and protect their naked lives. Because, taught by experience so far, I think first of all on 17 March 2004, we cannot rely on the protection of KFOR and UNMIK. Deeply aware of the environments and circumstances in which they live, the cosmetic Serbs are determined to stay on their great-grandfather's hearths. Hopes for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia still exist. The eyes of the Kosovo Serbs are aimed not only at the country of Serbia but also at the mother of Russia, because only what we give up has been lost, and we will never give up on Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15154	I thank the People's Messenger Zvonko Mihailovic. The word is Dr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15155	Citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, I ask the question of the negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija and Minister for Cosmet, Dr Samardzic -- to what extent have historic Serbian arguments related to the Cosmeta case been used during the negotiations? The motion for a resolution minorly mentions the Serbian historical right to its own Serbian territories. The historical right of a nation must never go out of date, as well as the right to genocide. It should be stressed that Serbia's historic spread, using ideological, religious and political forces, has been reduced to the small Serbia area to the Drin and Danube borders and to the south to the Macedonian, or borders of the former southern Serbia. Serbs should point out the example of the struggle of the Jewish people, who made their traditional epic story about ancient Judah, Israel, thousands of years old, in 1948 by creating a state of Israel in Palestinian territory. The Jews, therefore, have succeeded in calling for their old historical right, at least three thousand years old, with the help of Britain, but also the United States, to create a state in the middle of the Arab world. Serbs don't have to go so far in the past to highlight their historical rights. Kosovo and Metohija are located in the centre of the old state of Nemnjic, where only Serbs and some of the German miners Sasa lived as a people at the time. The Serbian ethnic structure has permanently disrupted Turkish conquests of Serbian countries from Macedonia, Cosmeta, Raska, later Bosnia and Herzegovina, Srema, Slavonia, etc. Why are we as a people ashamed of Serbian historical and national space? I will remind Serbian citizens of how far Serbian ethnic borders ranged in the mid-19th century. According to Austrian imperial documents – the western Serbian borders symbolically went along the northern Istria - Peroje - Serbian Moravice - Žumberak, then to Croatia's Zagorje. In the south, the border crossed under Share where the Serb people interfered with Bulgarians, Cincars, Turks and Greeks. I know these fellow Members of ours sitting in the Serbian parliament will immediately call me a great Serbian nationalist, which means fascist in their translation. I ask the question, why in the resolution, the liberal democratic challengers of the wars in the area of internationally recognised SFRY states are not calling and reminding themselves of all the injustices and crimes committed by the Serbian people. Cosmet is only one in a number of Serbian countries that has been taken from Serbs, with the will of Western tailors of new anti-Serbian borders. The eighth year is the rule of pro-Western political parties, i.e. the Social Democratic and Liberal Democratic Exponents, according to the globalist model of breaking all traditional, national, Serbian. Despite such government, however, the "bad guys" of united Europe remain in Serbia. As the Serbian government today raises a legitimate issue of preserving the international order, advocating the inviolability of internationally recognised borders, calling for the legal provisions of the UN, at Resolution 1244, it does not, on the other hand, accuse the violent order of the UN, which breaks one internationally recognised state. The Serbian government does not remind itself of a crime against the internationally protected state of Republika Srpska, which was created by the legitimate self-determination of the people in socialist Croatia. The Serbian government is not in favour of revising anti-Serbian historical decisions, i.e. to annul the violently established administrative borders of Broz in 1945. I stress the destruction of Broz's policy of creating autonomous provinces only in the area of socialist Serbia. It is necessary to declare the futility of the 1974 constitutional provisions on the establishment of the republics of states and provinces of states as constituent elements of the Federation. The constitution was passed by anti-Serbian Broz authorities without any democratic procedure, i.e. without the opinion of the Serb people, through the real legitimate Serbian people's representatives. So the constitution was passed by the right force of the communist totalitarian regime, so the devastating state-level consequences, which occurred with its fact for the Serb people, must be erased. Although long gone, such a constitution must be tried by the Serb people for the rehabilitation of Serbian statehood, which has been completely destroyed by such a monster act. The controversy between historians and publicists over the issue of teaching KIM to Albania in 1944 and 1945 broke down, as it did in the 1980s and early 1990s. The greatest son of all our peoples and peoples, Josip Broz, could have saved us from our suffering in April 1944, when, due to British goals, Kosovo and Metohija were to be delivered to Albania. With Cosmet Broz has been torturing us for years: in 1968, he deleted the Metohija from his name, and in 1974, under the Constitution of Kosovo, he became a constitutional element of the Federation. How did the Serbs disappear to KIM? First of all, the anti-Serbian work of churches and religious organizations was conducted by Roman Catholicism and the Islamization of Serbs. The Roman Catholic priests conducted the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Serb rendition and the creation of Roman Catholic arnauts, future Albanians. The next variant of national-religious conversion was done through the conversion of Orthodox Serbs into Catholic Serbs, i.e. Croats, Roman Catholicism in Janjevo and the Year between the two world wars. I'm not going to talk about moving Serbs, I don't have, among other things, time. I'm supposed to give my colleagues some time off. Finally, I point out that at this point, it is important to keep the deed of state property in Cosmet, with an internal redistribution of territory. Since the Serb population has been removed through history by violence by Cosmeta religious verification, anti-Serbian political decisions, genocide, etocide, it must return to non-violent methods to at least establish its ethnic status before 1941. As a minimum, Serbs must receive at least two of their national regional centres: Kosovo Mitrovica, as the centre of gathering of northern Kosovo Serbs and Pec, as the people's centre of Serbia's Metohija, with guaranteed international protection of the Serb population and Serb cultural monuments in the rest of Cosmeta. I'm asking the government, in the end, is she thinking about these options? My proposal remains within the framework of international law, especially historical law, because it protects the integrity and national integrity of Serbia, and two peoples who have bled so much through the history of imperialists and globalists, religious and national experiments, will be separated in their national regions, but most importantly, everyone within Serbia's state borders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15156	The word has the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, and let the Vice-President of the National Assembly be prepared, General Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been five months since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had on the agenda a theme called KIM. Meanwhile, the congregations of Italy and Romania have done so, but we have received an emergency procedure today, because we of the SRS insisted that this serious and important topic for the state of Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia is not being discussed on the last working day, and the report by our negotiating team, which probably most of the MPs have failed to even read. With more than 100 pages in it, I saw in the talks of the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, mentioning the Holland Islands, Hong Kong, the other night we heard him compare to Cyprus. I'm sorry he's not here, but I have some specific questions to ask him, first of all, about the military neutrality provided for in this resolution that we're likely to adopt today. Last night, his Minister Sutanovac said that this resolution envisioned military neutrality, that it was only the current state and that, in fact, it meant nothing, the question was what would happen tomorrow or for some time. When I listened to it, I somehow got the idea that this whole resolution, as far as DS is concerned, was just one pre-election dance, because I can't really give Serbian citizens the benefit of the election campaign for the President of the Republic to admit that, compared to the EU, they are not interested in KIM. That was, apparently, from that statement by Mr. Sutanovac. It remained unclear what Mr. Vuk Jeremic, also Minister Boris Tadic, meant when he said we would be broad-minded when it came to the KIM negotiations. We saw today, Mr Djelic here, in order to justify his DS, presented the truth that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was initialled without KIM. The same thing has been done recently with the CEFTA Agreement, and I'll tell you, very briefly, I speak quickly because I have very little time, and the topic is very serious, what happens to the SOFA Agreement. Journalist "The Greater Serbia", the SRS newspaper, Ivan Ninic, asked whether the SOFA Agreement was signed for the entire Republic of Serbia or for the Republic of Serbia without KIM, as is the case with CEFTA and with the paraphrasing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed, Dejan Mihajlov signed, Mr Ninic – we inform you that this state body, the General Secretariat, does not have the requested information. Why did Mr. Ninic ask the secretary general? Because previously from the advisers of the President of the Republic, Nebojska Krstic, he received a notice – we would like to inform you that the document containing the requested information is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Prior to that, the Ministry of Defence, the Secretariat, the Department of Operational Affairs, Dragan Radulovic, secretary of the Ministry of Defence, says – given the fact that the process of confirming the said Agreement has been initiated, but that it is not completed, we are of the opinion that at this stage of the procedure it is not possible to respond to the request of the applicant and to make the text of the Agreement available. Of course, there has been an intervention through the public information trustee, but unfortunately, we have not been able to get this information, which just confirms our suspicion that part of the ruling coalition is absolutely certain, and I mean DS, there is no intention and there is no dilemma about KIM and the EU. It is obvious that the DS has been identified for the EU, regardless of how the EU will deal with KIM, or the state of Serbia. That's why I repeat the question, Mr. Kostunica, to you and to point 7. The motion for a resolution, the position under 'd', which states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires the government of the Republic of Serbia to conclude international agreements, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, must be in the role of preserving the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, does this mean that, in your opinion, only the whole of Serbia can enter the EU? Did you know that this agreement was initialled without part of Serbia, without KIM? Your spokesman, Mr Ristivojevic, said Serbia will enter the EU only as a whole and says it expects the EU in the text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to guarantee Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty throughout the territory, which will be a condition for its signing. It is obvious, Mr Vojislave Kostunica, that this was not a condition for paraphrasing the Agreement, because Mr Djelic introduced us to Article 135, it seems to me, this agreement, so I ask you, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, of your response, Mr Kostunica, depends on whether we will vote in favour of this resolution, because we want to know whether you, as Prime Minister and whether the DSS, as part of the assembly majority, intends to negotiate with the EU, with EU members, do you intend to introduce us to the EU without KIM? The position of the SRS is that there can be no speech on the EU until we have a guarantee that the EU guarantees KIM as part of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, we have one country, only one Serbia and we cannot share it, we have no right to do so, we have no mandate, there is no one in this country, but we expect an answer from the Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15158	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Veronica Radeta. The word is by MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and must be prepared by Otto Kishmarton. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15159	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of state officials, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am one of those in this room who was born on that piece of planet Europe and the Balkans. There is an usurped property of mine, as well as property of many citizens in Serbia today. I'm not happy that space is at the heart of world events. Like any other Serb with KIM, I await each of their sessions and every session, especially when I hear the comments of some MPs. Everyone expects responsibility and unity from us. They're expecting honesty and they'll know they recognize it. It hurts me especially when some in this room expect and enjoy the support of this unnecessary presidential campaign from those who are willing to close our path to the future, because without KIM there is no future, without KIM there is no prosperity, so there is no Serbia. You've been elected by the citizens, but also some of you have been elected to this assembly. I know your burden of responsibility is much harder than ours. Tell me if you can wear it. We are ready to support your efforts to the last atom of strength and knowledge. If you're not ready, it's only fair that you step down and we're ready to understand that. We ask that you be clear, uncompromising in your views, because all concessions and compromises have already been made and proposed. There is no step back, because it would mean defeat and independence for KIM. We're not criticizing you, nor is it because you immediately suggested the most, that you immediately gave everything you could. We think it was honest and honest, although maybe it wasn't smart. Don't be downhearted, because they're big and powerful with them. It's not the first time in history. It used to be an Ottoman empire, so then fascist, Germany and Italy, now it's America and its European satellites. There were always quasi-state formations created in that area, and always the Serbs were second-class citizens in them, but they were patient and have always endured so far. And today the quasi state that is preparing would be a criminal mob state, a black hole in Europe. Don't think they're not aware of it and the Albanians don't feel it at KIM. I lived with these Albanians. I went to school with them. I worked with them. I fought against them. I know what they want and what they feel. I know they're not as happy today as we are. KIM has no business at all, as it is not in Serbia either. After many years, Albanians again come to the Serbs to work for a five-euro daily. The most severe patients with KIM when they lose all hope come to be treated in Belgrade. There are fewer and fewer triumphant euphorias among them, as there are fewer and fewer breads on KIM, and there are more and more hungry and poor. Let our arm of reconciliation be clear, sincerely provided, even if the rest of us are in the air. May our attitude always be balanced toward them. They say they don't want to come with us today. I know we can live with them and besides them, they are increasingly aware that America is far away and Serbia is near. They're aware that those bombs that were firing at us today are hitting them. They are aware that these same Americas will one day turn their interests and look to another side. They're aware there's no future for them in a country run by criminals, murderers and terrorists. Their time will pass. It won't happen soon. However, the centuries-old Albanian experience, the sense of justice will bring some other reasonable, responsible and honest people. Then the Serbian hand will be accepted. Until then, state wisdom and patience should be expressed on one side, as well as a completely uncompromising view that we will never, absolutely never agree to Kosovo and Metohija outside Serbia, even if it had to be passed down from knee to knee, from generation to generation. Without such a relationship, willingness and attitude we do not deserve to have Kosovo and Metohija, we do not deserve to have a state. Without such a relationship we do not deserve to call on our ancestors, we do not deserve to say we are Serbs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15160	Thank you, General Bozidar Delic. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton, and let Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, be prepared. Please be patient, we're close to the end, four more speakers. I expect us to finish this by 10:00. I'm asking the service to ask President Tadic to enter the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15161	Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency and dear friends, I will say something on behalf of my countrymen, Hungarians, and, of course, of all citizens of northern Banat, who think the same thing I will say about Kosovo and Metohija in the part of Serbia. Our fathers, grandfathers, great-grandfathers, the great-grandfathers lived on these premises, worked, built this country, and when there was a need to defend this country. This is where we live, in this country we've been educated, that's where we work. When it came to defending the state, we did not flee the country, but we also defended it in large numbers, shoulder to shoulder, with Serbs and other national minorities living on this territory. NATO aggression when they bombed Serbia, they bombed everything in order, not just Serbs. Both Serbian and Hungarian children cried at night when they listened to NATO planes fly and bomb our country. What I'm saying is that our fates are connected, and we're meant for each other, regardless of our national and religious background. We are together in every good and evil. Our children who experienced being bombed by NATO aggression would never forgive us if we agreed to form a NATO state on the ground of our Serbia. Which is a normal man who can call NATO a pact to our friends after all the evil they've done to our country and our children. Many times it has been said that the Russians are friends of the Serbian people, I would say that the Russians are friends of both Serbs and Serbs with all citizens living there, regardless of their nationality. Our kids for friends don't pick the bad guys who beat and bomb them, they pick the friends who help them. I said all this to let everyone know that we Hungarians from Serbia don't have a spare homeland in Hungary, because we're just strangers there. We are only in Serbia on our own. Serbia is our only country. We Hungarians are all heart to Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija and with all heart to Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15162	Thank you, Mr. Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when, after NATO aggression in 1999, Russian intellectual Alexander Solzenjcin wrote that there is no difference between NATO and Hitler, that the role of the NATO Pact, or America as the leader of the Western military alliance, is that, in the case of the bombing of Yugoslavia, it scares the entire planet and continues with such a policy. You, who were then in opposition, prepared to take over power with the help of the United States in 2000 and enter this present home of the National Assembly, probably did not believe in the words of Mr. Solzhenicin. I don't say all of them, but most of you who made their politics and the establishment of government over a period of seven years built on the adjudication of the US and NATO Pact, the European Union, and thus subordinated the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. Today we have a situation where this resolution has both a political and military aspect. Politically, because of the fact that everything that was happening because of the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija caused Serbs there to be no security, for the remaining Serbs, that over 200,000 of our countrymen, who had to escape under the Shiptar terror and after occupation, could not return to their hearths. And a military aspect, due to the fact that, as well as the outgoing President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, NATO candidate in the upcoming January 20th elections, and that he, as well as his Democratic Party, although agreeing that the resolution has such a character and that these sentences with some ambiguities, which I am going to potentiate, continue to advocate Euro-Atlantic integration, whatever that means for the loss of Serbian territory. They see Boris Tadic as such in Brussels. Both him and the shame for the Serb army, which was humiliated for the past seven years, from Tadic's ministry, through Davinic, and now to Sutanovac, because our delegation, led by counterpart Ivica Dacic, was in Brussels and NATO's leaders a month ago, and in the political part of talking to us, as well as at the base of the so-called Allied Shape Force, said that they see Serbia fully included in the NATO Pact, since the current government signed a partnership agreement, the so-called Partnership for Peace, and that they see Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. To my question, what does it mean about NATO and the European Union, they said, in fact, that a gentleman who is a spokesman or adviser to NATO's Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, that NATO synchronised in the political work is working towards harmonising its views on the situation in Serbia, related to Kosovo and Metohija, with the European Union, and that Serbia's accession and integration into the European Union for NATO and for all members of the European Union means taking away Kosovo's independence and Metohija from Serbia. We directly, according to that people's "pop pop, Bob Bob", we Serbian radicals, but this was also part of the fellow Dacic, for the first time quite clear and concretely said that three-quarters of Serbian citizens or more, I am confident at this moment, which will show elections for the President of the Republic, does not want to enter the NATO Pact, that citizens are opposed to any trade and so-called European integration to take away 15% of our territory, our centuries-old country, and that it is absolutely impossible for anyone to think that such a policy of force and pressure, and the abuse of all the instruments of international law, which have been declared in the United Nations, and in all valid documents, will succeed in pulling out of Serbia and Metohija. If we were so prepared and determined to say that as opposition representatives of Parliament we are saying this to those who have the intention, who occupied Serbian territory and who wants to tear Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia, the question arises, after the adoption of this resolution tonight, whether you, as the president of the state, will, while leaving, the one who has not taken an oath at the place of the president of the state and the one who is obliged to give us, as well as Mr Kostunica, the current prime minister, the answer to whether signing a Stabilisation and Association Treaty is directly conditioned by the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija and whether you will do so, given the fact that Bozidar Djelic, your high rank and vice president, read the point in which he clearly and unequivontly says, and what is unknown, I will explain to you Mr Samardzić, try to defend Kosovo and Metohija. We expect answers to these questions. When Mr Samardzic spoke from the assembly booth, Mr Tadic, Mr Kostunica, you were not in the hall at the time, the matter is very serious, Bozidar Djelic, out of his knowledge or ignorance, out of intent or by chance, spontaneously or already, came out and boasted that from tomorrow on the website of the Government of Serbia we could look at the complete Stabilisation and Association Treaty, said that we were replacing the thesis and that our question was not well set, and it was about the ambiguity in the point of 'ð' of this resolution. This is when it comes to the sentence in which it is said - they must be in the function of preserving the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and it is about international agreements, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As a result of such a trip by Bozidar Djelic, Mr Samardzic defended it by the fact that it stems from the general section of Resolution 1244. That's not true, Mr. Samardzic. At three o'clock at night, at every time day and night, I know every word of Resolution 1244, which is our only straw of salvation. Only some new UN Security Council resolution can change this one. Only because of the fact that today we have, not at a time when Mr. Solženjic made this statement, at the time of Boris Jelcin's treasonous regime, such as this Boris Tadic, now leaving president, we today have Putin in power, we have a clear and unequivocal foreign policy of the country. No Russian counterpart will tell you this, nor will he interpret in such a way what you said and what Bozidar Djelic said here, who doesn't care about international law, who doesn't care about Resolution 1244 and who doesn't care that tomorrow, as vice president of the government, starts representing this way in which it is defined in the resolution, the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. I don't expect Bozidar Djelic to meet with NATO General and say that Serbia wants to remain militaryly neutral and does not want to go to NATO. By the way, they told us we weren't even invited yet, and we weren't invited for the fact that we also stressed that we didn't meet all the conditions that they asked us to and that we have to be maximumly cooperative when it comes to all the documents that come from the Partnership for Peace Agreement, the Security Agreement, etc., that I don't tell you about it now, I don't have time. This means a complete adjudication of the part of the military agreement's annex resolution, which concerns the return of thousands of soldiers and police officers to the Kosovo and Metohija areas. Today we hear the president of the state who is drilling into his chest and who is determined and strong to defend Serbia, but only a little tomorrow, and who says, we are ready for that, too. Mr Tadic, although your head is facing to the left, and it would be better for you to look consciously to the right, with awareness that you are still the president of Serbia, although only until January 20th, I must remind you that such a speech should have been given to us on the night between 17 and 18th of March 2004, as military minister. You were not invited, but you were admitted to the National Assembly by Mr Milorad Mircic, as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee and allowed to defend yourself. You had a conversation with your Czech colleague at the time, you arrived from the Czech Republic, and you said you didn't know in which way you would ask the NATO Alliance to respect that part of the military agreement, namely the annex, and to return thousands of soldiers and police officers, which was our obligation and yours to seek all the time as the current President of the Republic, which you didn't do. Mr Samardzic, the issue of joining the EU, the trade for kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija, is not a question for one, two or three days, and that is the question of the future. Do you want to go politically that way, you've already told the military that you're defining yourself, or the DSS you belong to, by declaration or whatever you've already called that document on military neutrality, which they otherwise respect in Brussels, so they told us, we know that Tadic, Sutanovac and they say pride, and we say, no, it's not that pride, it's a disgrace for the Serbian army, because they can't pronounce the name of the one who embarrasss the Serbian army and General Delic, Mr Samardzic, you can't say that it comes from any part or letters of Resolution 1244. It writes well – reaffirming the commitment of all UN Security Council Member States, i.e. all those who are members of the UN, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ and other countries of the region as stated in the Helsinki document and Annex two. If they tell Bozidar Djelic, both you and Mr. Kostunica, you will be able to sign the announced term on January 28th, and the famous banker Djelic has prepared his gold pen for this solemn act, a Stabilisation and Association Treaty, but without applying to Kosovo and Metohija. Where it stands, as you tried to explain to us three hours ago here in Resolution 1244. It's not a question for today or tomorrow, it's Serbia's political commitment. We tell you today, and that's what Tomislav Nikolic says, as a candidate who will be voted with all his heart by the vast majority of Serbian citizens in the January 20th elections, we won't, we don't offer it to Serbia and we don't need it, because Djelic said the same thing a month ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a clouded betrayal in which you directly participate and Vojislav Kostunica himself. It doesn't surprise me for Tadic and DS and for these bellies of his. That is why he will experience such a disaster in the January 20th elections. Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Samardzic, it is very important that you tell us why you agree to this. Then why do you sign in such a way and through point 135, as Mr Djelic quoted and quoted by Mr Djelic, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Do you think any normal Serb or patriot, you heard Mr. Otto Kishmarton, in the ranks of the SRS parliamentary group, will sit most of the representatives of the national minorities in our country, no one can agree to that. You can't tell us it's something, it's so temporary. Well, that condition has been going on for eight years. And the situation takes place by rounding up after the aggression of a territorial, national, part of the territory, or southern Serbian province through the presence of a small number of Serbs, presenting that there were most of those who were actually a national minority, going to the state-owned Serb territory and that in this way both the US secretary of state and their representative in the Contact Group and everywhere and in every place where these infamous and unsuccessful negotiations with the Shipar side were held. What's important is we'll follow every step of yours from tomorrow. If you do not explicitly declare yourself in this way as it stands in the resolution, then you will remain a dead letter on paper. That's what Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke of on state television last night as a man who, you can see, is a responsible and future wise statesman. He said well, it happened throughout history that parliament was going to adopt one resolution, to vote one document – we have this example, and during the rule of DS and Djindjic and DOS in power, three resolutions and two declarations we have unanimously brought to the Assembly, although we were the strongest opposition, but you must be representing such views from tomorrow. Radeta's colleague mentioned that a month ago at the initiative of a group of National Alliance MPs in the Italian parliament, a resolution required by the Italian government to reject any possibility of unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija and a number of other measures the government should take. And their executive authority is said to be different these days. We will see how their parliamentarians react, because that resolution has received an absolute majority. It's not a question for them, it's a question for us Serbs, what are we going to do after the assembly tonight and this vote, when we don't know in what way you're going to defend your interests through this resolution, are you ready and able to do so? We want, as the government in a month, from the level of the president of the Republic and soon the government at all levels in the country, now as the largest party, the current opposition, to reach a maximum consensus in Kosovo and Metohija, which we have done all these years. We didn't want to say one word today to irritate anyone and speak in another daily sense, without having any weight to worry about, first of all, the state and the people. But we ask you, I repeat it, as well as many fellow MPs of the SRS, to tell us what will happen in the coming days, will you from tomorrow on and on every spot, in your public appearances, and will you tell Boris Tadic to stick to every point and letter of this resolution? It's the only way we can be sure, and believe me, I'm not sure, I'm only sure of what Tomislav Nikolic will do, by choosing as president, that you will respect what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia votes tonight. Until then and to your next steps, I urge the citizens of Serbia not to gamble another chance, and it is also offered to do it with a pencil and with their own hand on January 20th, to vote for a man who will be able and able, everywhere and in every place, for those who want to take our territory, to make it clear that it stands behind every sentence, behind every word, not just these resolutions, but all those who have ever been in the Assembly, in order to protect Serbian national and state interests. Also, to inform citizens, as the end of the session approaches, that in 15 minutes, a documentary film made by the first programme, or a channel of Russian state television, will begin on the first programme of state television. It's a documentary truth about the Serb death during the aggression and how they live today. This show was broadcast in a term that was not a blow to the Russian people and the Russian state channel, but since Mr. Vladimir Putin looked at that show, he demanded that it be rephrased twice, and here, now, tonight we will have the opportunity to see how those who are truly allies of our people and who have been from the very beginning, see our destiny, and how they are prepared, and I am confident, that they are, to help us, in defending Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15164	I thank Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, and should be prepared for Nemanja Sarovic, who is also the last to be reported. The remaining time for SRS MPs is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Kosovo's dedication is historic, because it has a starting point in a historic event. It was created in the course of the internal history of a nation. It has strayed from history, since certain facts gradually became the contents of a nation’s general spirituality and deep self - consciousness, and this has finally adapted. That is why Serbia should never lose its cradle forever, to lose forever part of its centuries-old territory, to reduce the living space of the remaining 130,000 Serbs and the non-Albanian population, to threaten Orthodox temples and centuries-old hearths. We must not allow the reserves to be lignite, and there are 15 billion tons of them, lead, nickel, gold, silver, Zeolite, thermomineral waters, lost forever. Problems related to KIM status are terrorism, ethnic cleansing and an attempt to separate itself from Serbia, but also the lack of electricity that the citizens of KIM had during the war and during the bombing. Is the KIM situation better and more favourable or not if we withdraw the parallel between 2000 and 2007, because for seven years, democratic Serbia has been taking care of Kosovo and Metohija? The current regime has promised, Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue, a question of democratic standards. I would like to quote, and I ask you not to consider this time, the findings and questions of Mr Tadic in the report on the solution to the future KIM status, which he said in February 2006. – Unfortunately, from 1990 to today, the state of Serbia has not invested a single penny to defend its legitimate views in these countries. If it were, today our opposition, our political contemporaries in 2006, would be a lot easier. Mr Tadic, it is you who asks the question of the SRS – how much did you invest from February 2006 until today? Your further findings are – what is meant by the negotiation process. You said, Mr Tadic, that this negotiation procedure today involves the first stage of concentration on the decentralisation process – decentralisation in that area of negotiations involving people living on KIM. We of the SRS, Mr Tadic, ask you – what stage did you reach? You asked some more questions, and findings and claims – in February 2006, with the Report on the solution of the future KIM status. You said that your intention, the regime's intention, is to form as many municipalities as possible with the Serb majority, that the establishment of direct institutional links between municipalities with the Serb majority on KIM, with Belgrade and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a priority. Now we ask you, after a long period of time, how many new municipalities did the regime form on KIM? The answer obviously doesn't. The only regime remains to monitor the SRS' ideology, as it is a hope for all who live and work in Serbia with KIM as an inseparable part of Serbia. So today we send another message – that it is an obligation for all of us to safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of our country. We keep historical values, because history is the lobby of the present and the future, for our future, for the future of our children, with all our hearts for Kosovo and Metohija. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15166	I thank Dr. Cvetanovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let Predrag Stosic, who was last registered on the list of speakers, be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that the discussions we have heard so far can be called an attack on the common sense of Serbia's citizens. We have a resolution ahead of us, but the party representatives who make up the ruling coalition have told completely different stories. What's true, of course, will judge citizens, but by what I might conclude, it's clear that most of what we've heard isn't really true. The president of the DS and candidate of the regime in the next election, Boris Tadic, said Serbia had an initiative in the negotiations that had been completed, but did not tell us whether the famous Serbian diplomacy had succeeded and whether anything had been achieved with the initiative. Has Boris Tadic managed to convince any of his Western friends, who are so keenly supporting him in order to become Serbia's president again, not to recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence. We heard that Serbia will declare an invalid decision on a unilateral declaration of independence. But we haven't heard if we're going to cooperate, how we're going to co-operate with countries that recognize this independence. Are we going to pretend like nothing happened, formally make a decision not to recognise independence, and then do everything like that independence wasn't even there. Whether we will receive in Serbia the goods on which KIM is designated as a special state. The president of the Serbian government, Kostunica, gave a completely different message. He said, among other things, that the will of America and European states has prevented Russia's initiative to continue negotiations. We have also heard that in the world, a situation in which most states do not know what the right, truth, justice and dignity are and how violence, injustice and abuse of the weak is the principle by which these countries operate. It's all America and the EU's fault, but we haven't heard what had to be said – whether we'll co-operate with such America and such an EU. We heard whether the threat, whether a prediction, that Serbia could reach the pillar of shame, and that even more extreme measures would not be excluded if we stood up. Is that what Vojislav Kostunica thought and said that Serbia could be bombed if it tries at least legally to resist the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija. After all, I think that you owe the citizens of Serbia an explanation as to why the West treats the alleged democratic DOS regime. So far, you've blamed all the previous regimes, which, in your words, were undemocratic. He is eight years old since Serbia was reportedly ruled by democracy, and we see that Resolution 1244, which was guaranteed by the so-called democratic regime, now represents only distant dreams. Can we, this is a question that is raised on any basis, ever again co-operate with states that recognise Kosovo's independence and Metohija? What happens tomorrow if we're asked for Raska? What happens if they ask for Srem or Šumadi, or any other part of the Republic of Serbia? The resolution we have in front of us is so inaccurately written, so wide that it will allow you to interpret everyone in the next period as you wish. Article 7, stance 'd' says the National Assembly requires the Government of the Republic of Serbia that international agreements that they conclude, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, be in the function of preserving the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Wasn't that the government's obligation so far? Have you so far concluded agreements to destroy the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia? In the end, I can't help but wonder what the leaders of the countries that kidnap Serbia see in Boris Tadic? What do the leaders of the cosmetian Albanians see in Boris Tadic, when he is so unreservedly supported? What was Boris Tadic’s fascination with their leaders? For months, we were persuaded by the leaders of the cosmetic Albanians, and Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj and Agim Ceku, that they would not wait one day after December 10th with the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. They convinced us there was nothing more expensive for them in the world than independence. However, it turned out not to be so. There has turned out to be something more desirable for them, and the more they prefer independence is obviously Boris Tadic. We now have to openly tell Serbian citizens that in the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, which will be held on 20 January, Boris Tadic will be as much as the candidate of the West, and by the West I mean Javier Solana, George Bush, Soros, Sarkozy and others, if not more, Boris Tadic will also be the candidate of the Kosovo Albanians. So Boris Tadic will be the candidate of Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj and Agim Ceku. In the end, Boris Tadic called George Bush, who now heads the countries that are kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija "Dear George". What letters of love content he wrote to him. Tell the Serbian citizens whether they will write them love letters of such content in the future and whether the price Serbia pays for it is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you of one more thing. Boris Tadic at the Airport in Skopje called Agim Ceku a soldier. He didn't remember him coming out, and at the time, Interpol's warrant was still valid for Agim Ceku because of all those victims and arson and crimes he committed against the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. So, Serbian citizens remember what any of the candidates did in the previous period and that will be the best course for you to vote in the next elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15168	The word is from MP Predrag Stosic, the last MP on the SRS list. The remaining time for the SRS Parliament Club is three minutes. Please blend in in in those three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15169	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the latest statements coming from senior officials from the European Union and the United States to resolve the final status of the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, all in order to feel the pulse of the Serbian people, have led us to the situation that we must speak out loud and clear of our views on the open blackmails and threats that we are facing. That we must not agree at any cost to secede any part of our territory, we should no longer speak, because it is the only normal, natural response to all the enemies of Serbia, it is clear to all, except for individuals who defend the interests of the very ones who take away Kosovo and Metohija from us today. Today I just want to know where Serbia ends. We want to know if you are aware of the message of your recent history, starting with the occupation of Republika Srpska, the constant asphyxiation of Republika Srpska, the secession of brother Montenegro? Today comes the turn of attempts to amputate Kosovo and Metohija. And that by our godless friends from the European Union, whose membership we are so keen on, and America, whose democracy we accept from each other. Where is the end of the kidnapping, and where is the end of the patience of the Serbian people? Does this mean that when we are asked tomorrow for the south of central Serbia, Raska district or Vojvodina for participation in the same international institution, we must also bow our heads? And that's what they're already telling us. Albanian political leaders in Bujanovac and Presevo daily call for the withdrawal of our units from the territory of "Eastern Kosovo", as they themselves call this region, and the stationing of NATO troops in order to preserve the alleged "peace and stability" that they are violating, by their political statements and procedures. And as NATO troops safeguard peace and stability, we could feel during the 1999 bombing and the Kosovo pogrom on 17 March 2004. They say to be patient until we enter the European Union. And all the efforts of our five-October Democrats since 2000 and beyond, directed towards European integration, are being rewarded today by the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija. Does this mean that officials from Europe figured out what kind of listeners (poltrons) they had in Serbia, so that after all the trial requirements (through the delivery of Serbs to The Hague, the sale of enterprises) they dared to ask for what they had bombed us for, according to a former US official (William Montgomery). It should be clear to every reasonable man that with those who violently took away some of our territory, we can't have any agreements. It is also clear that there are those who are against enslavement of any state, part of a righteous world, a world that does not close its eyes to what is happening between America and their friends in Europe. The leader of the free-loving world today is brotherly Russia, which is more aware of the importance of the Kosovo issue than of a particular political structure in Serbia, which gives us every opportunity to help, either economically or politically. Russia with the free world, on the one hand, or America with the imperialists, on the other hand? Kosovo in Serbia or Kosovo in Albania? Dignity or halftime? End of a state rip-off or another step towards Belgrade Pashalu? These are all questions that a reasonable man knows the answer to at the moment. And that's not what we ask, but it's what others do to us. So today we have to think for ourselves if we want to preserve KIM, the heart of our country. Today, we need to say whether we want a continuation of the sleeping state in which Serbia's political summit is today, or whether we want changes that will clearly provide a hand to our friends and close the door to our enemies. The choice is clear – with all hearts for Serbia. Give it up. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15170	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here, you have another 10 minutes, Mr. Varga, on behalf of your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15171	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the President of the Republic, as well as the Government, have since the start of the negotiation process paid enormous attention to the resolution of KIM's final status. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians has always supported the efforts of state authorities. Unfortunately, these negotiations have ended in failure. On this occasion, I want to talk about a part of the reason why these failures occurred. The question arises as to why the construction of our negotiating team and the United States, as well as all the influential EU countries, turned their backs on Serbia in this process. Because in the past seven years, Serbia has gambled on multiple confidence. Unfortunately, they did not believe in you, that what you offer is indeed so and you think that you do not have any hidden cause, that you will not break the promise at the first possible opportunity. Why didn't they believe you? For countless reasons. One is, of course, the policy you have led towards national minorities in Serbia over the past seven years. In fact, you haven't been able to make any significant and honest gestures towards national minorities living in Serbia since 2000, not in the area of preserving their identity, nor in order to strengthen their economic position. After October 5th, only a few months seemed, but unfortunately it was not so, that there was a sincere intention that instead of assimilation, the preservation of the identity of national minorities would become the backbone of politics towards national minorities. It turned out that this was not the case between 2000 and 2003, unfortunately neither later. These politicians, who did not view national minorities as part of their potential electoral body but rather value, soon became marginalised. National minorities have become the biggest losers of the transition. They were the first to get fired without talking about their involvement in the state administration, in the police, in the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, it should have been pointed out in the case of national minorities living in Serbia that democratic Serbia has indeed made a turn in its relation to national minorities, that you can be honest. It's just, unfortunately, you didn't recognize this need. Serbia therefore sees itself as a state without credibility in the international community. You will say to this that in 2000, you have done much in the field of human and minority rights, even the Law on Minorities has been passed. That's true, it's just that the law wasn't passed with sincere intentions. Namely, it is a condition to satisfy the form, but when we reached the essence, to comply with the full competences of the national councils, then we faced unprecedented obstacles. Has any government been ready since 2000 to offer at least part of those rights to its national minorities that it has sought for non-Albanian communities in Kosovo, for example during the Vienna negotiations? It's not. You offered Albanians essential autonomy, and for non-Albanian communities you sought the same autonomy. So, autonomy within autonomy. But when a minority in Serbia, in other parts of Serbia, seeks autonomy, such as Hungarians, then you say autonomy in the context of autonomy is not in line with European values. And when you're looking for the same thing, it's consistent. We Hungarians have fought for many things since 2000, that is true, but we have only succeeded thanks to our political organisation. Last example - the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, but you cannot say a single significant step that governments have made to improve the position of smaller national communities. What did you do, for example, for Slovak, for Croatian, for Bulgarian, for Russian or for other small minorities? Nothing. You answer to this: are not all national minorities represented in our ranks, and that you have messengers of the people of all these communities. True, you do, but the problem is that they don't even have the right to talk about their problems, let alone vote for a proposal that doesn't like your party leadership. Looking at the work of the National Assembly since February 14th, I feel like we're in Rambouille. Namely and there were members of minority communities even Albanians on Serbia's negotiating team, of course, as a decoration, and I must admit that it was extremely devastating to see that the goal of the political elite in Serbia and in 2007 was, in practice, the assimilation of minority communities. More and more significant political forces, unfortunately, think so. The difference is that some talk about it and some don't talk about it, such as the president of the National Assembly, he started talking about it. For these reasons, the parties of national minorities have become opponents instead of partners who need to be defeated. Of course, national minorities have become a layer of society that needs to be assimilated with patient work. It is increasingly clear that one of the DS's priorities and objectives has become the destruction of the political entity of national minorities. Some communities have agreed to this. Imagine an example of the Croatian community, simply, members of the Croatian community began celebrating the Christian glory, which is the best proof of the loss of identity. But, of course, it is no wonder that the state created conditions for the Croatian community for seven years to open a single gymnasium class in Croatian and for fourteen students. Some communities are aware of the perils of politics. That party that stood up to this, I'm talking about the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, has become your political enemy. The President of the Republic said the day before yesterday that it is unusual in Europe for a minority community to highlight the candidate in the presidential elections, that this is not in line with European standards. This means, in other words, that in the opinion of Mr Tadic, Serbia's candidate can only be a Serb. To remind you, the President of the Republic, President of France, Mr Sarkozy, has a Hungarian background. His father is, in fact, Hungarian. You know who attacked him for that in the presidential campaign? Of course, the representative, or candidate of the ultra right, Mr. Lepen. It is painful for me to admit that the headquarters of this anti-minor policy has become a party headed by the President of the Republic. This, therefore, is the way of thinking and policymaking that has led to all Western countries turning their backs on Serbia. These are reasons why even a huge number of countries simply don't trust you. Of course, that is not the only reason we can give other examples. For example, writing down empty houses without any legal basis or this latest delivery of military calls in national mixed environments. And the latest example of disrespect for the fact that there are national minorities living in Serbia, that even they have political organisations, is this final determination of the composition of working bodies and election committees in the vote for Serbia's president. This issue may be insignificant at this point, but it is excellently depicting the relationship of Serbia's most important party to European values. I think that relationship is just catastrophic. You really think that officials in the international community who make decisions, that they're blind not to see what's going on, that they haven't followed these last seven years. Of course they saw, they followed, and you just lost their trust. The president of the Republic says that this bad picture that exists in the world about Serbia was created in the 1990s. It's, unfortunately, only partially true. Namely, it was created then, but not counting on a one-time period until Prime Minister Djindjic's murder, this picture just broke down. The ruling political elite, unfortunately, has been dishonest to both minorities and to every citizen of this country all these years. Namely, you say you do not want isolation, that you do not give up the country's European future, while at the same time voting for a resolution containing the threat of breaking diplomatic relations and the threat of not signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. A decision is made on military neutrality. The EU has joined ten former Socialist countries today. All these countries, before full membership in the EU, became members of the NATO Pact. That's the facts. There is no membership in the EU, therefore, without Atlantic integration. You know that well. (President: Time. In the end, I apologize, Mr. President, to only do one little digression. There is a state-owned project – Kosovo issue in the Yugoslav and global context of the 20th century. Some people visit local self-government and public enterprises in national mixed municipalities and hand over to the presidents of municipalities and directors of public enterprises a letter signed by the president of the National Assembly, which draws attention to the importance of this project, which would be fine. What's wrong is that the MPs of the National Assembly threaten these directors of public enterprises with financial police if they don't buy this book in dozens of copies. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the image and opportunity of Serbia in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15172	Before I conclude a single search, I give my word to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15173	Dear People's MPs, at the end of this long and important debate, the debt was because it was really important, I want to stress the responsibility of all those who participated in today's debate. And it's normal, when times are this difficult, that we need to hear ourselves, to hear each other in all differences of opinion, in order to be absolutely sure that we are finally coming to something that is a more unique position, because in those things that concern the state, regarding its survival, regarding its future, it's necessary to have that attitude. In other things we can completely differ, but this is one situation where we need such a firm and determined attitude. For all the MPs and citizens, therefore, for all the MPs and citizens, I underline once more, I think I have given clear guarantees when it comes to respecting the constitutional provision concerning the position of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia's territory. That's what I'm saying today and tomorrow. The resolution itself, which I have explained in my presentation, is clear. She's consensual to the Constitution. I come at the end of something that was the subject of the debate of the highest questions raised in this congregation. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: President, warn the President of the Republic not to threaten MPs. ) This is in our 7dj resolution, which reads: "The National Assembly requires the Serbian Government that international agreements concluded by the Republic of Serbia, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, be in the function of preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country." That, simply put, in other words, is read as it is written, wolfish, means that Serbia can, in all international agreements, including the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, approach what it looks like in its present Constitution, in its entirety, not mutilated, but whole. It is simply, quite clearly contained in the resolution that lies ahead of you. Of course, here might be an opportunity to remind me of something else, that in the founding act of the EU, it calls for a UN Charter based on respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all existing states, that, too, in the founding act, the EU calls for a Helsinki Final Act guaranteeing the non-violence of existing borders and that, also in the founding act, the EU says that countries within the existing borders must be preserved. [[Applause]] So what we stand behind, which we have been calling upon all this time, clearly, is an international right and we have shown a real firmness in respect of international law, but there is one part of the right to which we have an even greater obligation, and that is our internal right, and within our internal right, of course, it is the Constitution of our country. The constitution is also fully clear when it comes to the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, especially in its preamble that is more than clear, which speaks of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia and, in addition, talks about the constitutional obligation of all state authorities to respect, represent and protect Serbia's interests in general, with Kosovo as an integral part, in all internal and foreign political relations. It is simply something that has entered this resolution and it is something that gives strength and strength to this resolution. Just as I was talking about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which Serbia, given our right and international law and the founding act of the EU, sees as a partner who can only accept Serbia as a whole, so when it comes to all other international agreements, it is more than clear that they can only be concluded as a function of preserving Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and that it is finally the ultimate judge, when it comes to this, this assembly that will ratify these agreements. So, the Assembly is full of what these agreements need to go through and which will assess whether this important constitutional provision is respected. That's why I think this provision is clear enough. If she wasn't at the very beginning of this debate, I think I've explained enough. I would talk about something else when it comes to this resolution, not to point 7jj, but to something else that is very important for our relationship with the European Union. The EU summit on December 14th, as is known, decided to send an EU civilian mission to Kosovo, which would replace the UN civilian mission, or UNMIK. The only problem is that this second EU civilian mission is foreseen in Ahtisaari's plan and the only problem is that Ahtisaari's plan has never been included, or became an integral part of a Security Council resolution, which was to be adopted, but was not adopted this July. Therefore, the arrival of the EU Mission in this regard, from the point of view of international law, from Resolution 1244, is illegal, illegal, contrary to Resolution 1244. In fact, this is the first question and the first situation in which, in some ways, our relationship with the EU is being tested. That's what we talked about and in the resolution, that's this point 5, more than clear, that's something I was talking about to the Security Council. So there is Resolution 1244. It can only be replaced in the Security Council, not elsewhere, only in the Security Council of a new resolution, just as Resolution 1244 is comprehensive and comprehensive, regulates the overall status of Kosovo and the Metohija within Serbia, at one point, and this future resolution cannot be a piece, cannot regulate only one issue, cannot regulate only the issue of replacing a civilian mission with another civilian mission -- UNMIK and the European Union, but must fully regulate the situation and future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Such a resolution can and must only be reached through negotiations. These negotiations are blocked at this time, but it is up to us and this assembly to point out once again that the solution to the difficult Kosovo issue in the negotiations is in respect of international law, not in its violation, in the adoption of a new SB resolution and that Serbia is behind it. Serbia is for negotiations, Serbia is for compromise, Serbia is for resolving the future KIM status within the SB, that the whole process has started, not outside of it. It's where you actually know who respects law and who doesn't respect law. That's what this resolution, which we need to adopt today, is highlighted. And finally, when we came to the end of this whole debate, it remains only for you, thanks to you once again for your participation in the debate, for everything that has been said, we agreed and did not agree and I call you at the end, or for all MPs of the National Assembly or precisely to say almost all parliamentary groups, to vote in favour of the resolution, because Serbia today needs a state unity for the defence of KIM. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-26-0.u15174	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search. Since we have conducted a single search on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint December 26, 2007, at 22.37 p.m. as a voting day. Before we move on to a decision, we need to establish a quorum for work, in accordance with Article 86(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Since the electronic voting system is not in place in this room, I would ask the service that, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, carry out a count of the Members of Parliament. I find that the count found that there are 239 MPs in the hall, or that there are more than 126 MPs present and there are conditions to decide. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Report of the State Negotiation Team on the negotiations conducted under the three-point meeting of the Group on the Future Status of Kosovos and Metohia and a proposal for a Resolution of the National Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional origin of the Republic of Serbia, as the National Assembly carried out a single search, we move to a decision. I am voting on the State Negotiating Team Report on the negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, led from 10 August to 19 December 2007. In accordance with Article 118(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote will be held by hand-lifting. I'm asking the service to conduct a vote count. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? For 150, against 19, the abstention of three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to accept the State Negotiation Team Report on negotiations under the mandate of the Troika Contact Group on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a resolution, we need to make a statement on the amendment submitted to the motion for a resolution. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together an amendment to the text of the Resolution. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? For 13, against 83 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I put to the vote the Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Who's in, please raise your hand. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? For 220, v. 14, abstention of three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I'd like to inform you that the eighth session tomorrow, starting at 4:00 p.m., is in the National Assembly building of the RS, on the street. King Milan 14.
