ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8795	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 77 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour. [[after breaks]] We continue the work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Predrag Umičević, Vojislav Mihailovic, Meho Omerovic, Balint Pastor, Riza Halimi and Milan Vukovic. We continue to work on the amendment to Article 12. Let me remind you, the People's MP Rajko Baralic has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here's a word from MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8797	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in any case, I support the SPS amendment submitted by Rajko Baralic to the 12th law we are considering. The word "cooperation" is an inappropriate word to be used in law. It would be unique in an earlier period, in some self-government settlement, in the functioning of the socio-political community, the mutual relations of socio-political organisations, which is past time. In this article goes, first, the word "co-operation" and then "the rights and duties of the President of the Republic, the Government, etc.". So if one of them isn't willing to cooperate, he'll say, you know, the other one didn't want to cooperate, so I can't respect my rights and duties stemming from the Constitution, especially from Article 201. Therefore, I think that such a word only illustrates the unhealthy situation that exists on the DS and DSS, namely the President of the Republic and the current Prime Minister. Secondly, here you should say -- read the Constitution, a member who regulates this matter should say -- read the Constitution, read what needs to be done. I don't see why this isn't elaborated, which are the rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, by noting that the President of the National Assembly has been left out here. It is almost inconceivable that he does not participate in this work, in this co-operation, as you say, and in the exercise of rights and duties, and in the president of the National Assembly, when the word is, for example. about the state of emergency and the state of war, when the National Assembly cannot meet. He was, absolutely, put outside this law, as if he didn't exist, and he was certainly important in that part where the National Assembly couldn't meet. Practically, this part of the government law is one improvisation that has been quickly addressed. For these reasons, the SPS supports Rajko Baralic's amendment and suggests that the word be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8798	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8799	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment tabled by counterpart Rajko Baralic, should be accepted because he is in the only possible, with the constitution prescribed, in amending and supplementing the Law on Government, governing the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. In fact, Mr Baralic asked that the current proposal of Article 12 delete the words "in co-operation". It is the government's co-operation, i.e. the government's intensification to include something in the Law's provision that is indeed an existing constitutional category when the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister is about, that is, the relationship of the President of the Republic to the Government, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia adopted last year clearly defines what are the rights and obligations of the President of the Republic, this outgoing, Boris Tadic, and the future, which will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and the Prime Minister, whoever he is. At this point, it's Vojislav Kostunica, but it won't take long. Why am I telling you this? I don't know what your intention was or who wrote this article to you, but it's completely pointless, because you're probably under the influence of everything that's happened to you seven years ago. In fact, since you're like horns in a bag, you're always put together at the last minute, in the day of "D" so that radicals don't take over power and responsibility for better state-leading, now you've come up with something that's supposed to make the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister work together. You could only put it on - and all of it with the signature and the cover of George Bush, Javier Solana and Olli Rehn, because without them you couldn't even put the government together, without them, they couldn't possibly, as you liked to say, cohabitate Tadic and, in the previous government, Kostunica, that is, now, in this new consolidation of forces, you co-operate in any way. You're in power in the state, and you're forced to build a government on May 20th to 12th of May, of course, without the presence of the President of the Republic. We are seeing the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister together at the sessions where we are discussing the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, on taking the state's stance on the most vital state and national issue. You are members of DS and DSS and you have, probably, some of you, contacts, one with party president Boris Tadic, I know for sure that Mr Milivojevic has them, every day around the presidency, sees President Tadic, exchanges views with him and determines strategic moves to lead state policy, as you do, from the DSS, in your nature, you have communication with Vojislav Kostunica. Tell me, because you and the entire Serbian public know that there is an animosity between Tadic and Kostunica, and you are not very good at each other, but you have a sweeter function, a chair, an exercise of power, how do you think that one member of the law will force two people who are completely opposed to each other to co-operation? To put in a member of the law that they should co-operate, which is their constitutional obligation, is completely pointless. That's why Mr. Baralić is right, it's not just a surplus in the sentence, but it's impossible to do it legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8800	Excuse me, I'm asking the MPs to die. We had an hour longer off. Calm down so we can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8801	They're totally calm, Mr. Grouchy, just thinking loudly about what I'm telling them, because they know it's true, too. According to these comments, which are useful to me too, I can conclude that the MPs of both parties and the other parties, and those who have the president and those who have the prime minister, agree with my opinion. Because of the fact that such animosities were present back seven years between, firstly, Kostunica, who was the president of the federal state, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so he, by nature of his function, had to co-operate with the president of Serbia, we are in a situation that we do not have a president of Serbia, so that v.d. The post was performed by Natasa Micic, and she herself said she had no co-operation with President Kostunica at the time. Then, later, the elected Prime Minister Kostunica has no co-operation with then-elected President Boris Tadic. It has nothing to do with the legal arrangement of that relationship. Everything in the Constitution says to you, what are the powers of one, what others, it is unnecessary to force them to do so by law. It's all a matter of political decision and the nature of a political party and ideologies that has a president or prime minister. No law can force them to do that, only I can, as I say, Bush, Ollie Ren or Javier Solana, or other mentors, who are over your head all the time and who are telling them what to do. They would be so happy to cooperate if they didn't have these conditions aside, they would because of their functions, but not because of the general interest of the state and the people. So think about it, if you start with these clauses and contractual obligations between the authorities, executives, and the elected Prime Minister, elected President of the Republic, as long as that brings us. You have contracts between you, as coalition partners, you have contracts as a coalition that is drawn up and scrutinized as it is, as well as the division of public enterprises, boards of directors and ministerial posts, so I see you have been discussing these days something about it and the topic has been updated again that someone has forgotten some principle, multi, was it so. Do you have a deal about what you've taken responsibility for - leading the state in the coming period? You don't, and you want to make a contract between the president of the state and the Prime Minister to cooperate, not with a contract in the right sense of words, but with one member of the law. That's completely pointless. If you want seriousness in the country, if you want any elected authority to be in future, from now on, and in the future, respect what comes from the letter of the Constitution, you will accept the amendment of Mr. Rajko Baralic and thus in a perfectly normal way, as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without these words "in co-operation", to arrange what should be done by the Prime Minister and the President of the State, and to which they are bound by the Constitution. This is how you will question it with every citizen of Serbia, and with whoever voted for you, and, of course, we want to convince them that they were wrong when they believed in your intention to rule on the basis of the Constitution. No, it's based on a law that will prescribe that they are obliged to cooperate, and the question is how. They look over their sights, or each other swears, like a neighbor across the board. You can't run a state like that. Either they respect the Constitution and the laws and obligations that come out of them, or let them withdraw from those functions and let them say, "We can't stand each other, we can't look at each other, we're doing all of this to keep going and to destroy Serbia." We prefer a chair of state and national interest. Then the citizens will know who they're dealing with. If you do not accept Mr Baralic's amendment, as well as all that you have done so far, it will indeed be a special treat in the election campaign for the President of the Republic, and we will especially use this and how to use it. Tomislav Nikolic, the future head of the SRS government, does not need any obligation in the law, nor the word 'co-operation' to enforce the Constitution and the law of the prescribed obligation. Honorably, morally and honestly, every Serbian radical starts with Tom Nikolic, through all of us, will work according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the will of the people, whatever she will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8802	I thank Miss Natasha Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I beg the messengers, once again, for silence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8803	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I have reported to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 225, paragraphs 3 and 4, and on Article 88(2). Article 88(2) The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that if one-third of the MPs are not present at the beginning of the working day, the president of the National Assembly postpones the start of work by one hour. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every day in various media reports that MPs, automatically thinking about all MPs, are not responsible and that they are not doing their job in accordance with the obligations arising from what the Constitution means, the laws, their personal relationship with the work of the National Assembly. Once again, please, you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, are the government. Are you able to secure one-third? It is 84 members of Parliament present at the beginning of the working day. If it is, it is. If not, just help us not to distribute this anthem on the total irresponsibility of the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to all MPs. Our job is that you fail, that you are not power, that you fail in the sense that you do not exercise authority. It's your job not to fail. Please don't expect us to give you a quorum. We were here. If you don't believe, in the Serbian Ministry, in the first room on the right, and that's called an operating centre, there are six of these screens showing what the cameras here are recording, outside the National Assembly building. It's exactly where you see who comes in, when he comes out, and just so you know, what we're looking at, it's still working. So, in the MUP, for reasons of the security of the MPs and this institution, and I want to say that it's not a matter of covert tracking or this other one, there's a video surveillance and there's a video of who came in, who came in, how much he worked here, who comes to him, etc. It doesn't make any sense that you're here to honor us for not being able to do this or that, to spend your precious time, explaining, as you say, the unsuspecting amendments, etc. We'll still do our job. We expect you to do your job. If you are unable to do so, call the elections, now is the opportunity, the presidential, parliamentary, local, everything in the package, and then to make the government that looks like the state of Serbia, not that you're like this, "on the muscles," every morning you work, to beg people to come and get them from those boards of directors. We've received answers, the Management Board has received answers to questions as to how many applications they are, but we'll talk about it another time. It would be my pleasure to inform you how many of your colleagues are apologising on boards and boards, and all that, by the way, while they're still MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8804	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic first appeared, then Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I apologize for interrupting the debate on the amendments, but this will take a while, but it is very important for the Kragujevci and for the young people who asked me to bring their problem to Parliament. In 2003, at the Medical Faculty, the University of Medicine was founded, whose work programme was set up on the principles of the Bologna Declaration. This high school, when it was founded, had three directions: professional physiotherapist, professional medical technician and senior pharmaceutical technician. The first generation of this school, and for us particularly interesting are these senior pharmaceutical technicians, graduated last year. At this point, the second generation is starting to come out slowly, so they're starting to get their diplomas. What's their problem? The problem is that the school they completed has never received accreditation from the Ministry, which results in these people, who acquired diplomas and completed school, so they spent three years of their lives studying at that school, can't be employed today, because the Ministry of Education didn't establish a code to be delivered to the National Employment Service, so that their occupation, practically, doesn't exist. They have a big problem. They've been trying to solve it for a year. They knocked on every door, tried to get an answer at the university, by the people responsible for the University of Kragujevac and didn't get an answer. They tried the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health. Everyone was deaf to their problem. What's very important is that they got diplomas, that these diplomas were signed by the dean and by the rector of Kragujeva University. The second thing, a significant number of those students, while they were studying, because they were doing well, what they were learning, went to the budget. Practically, the state financed them. They got student loans. So the state financed their study. Some of them even passed a traineeship, so they received assurance from the health ministry, signed by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, but in the National Service they do not exist. So they're trying to solve the problem and no one's answering. They're in pretty bad shape because they don't see a solution to their problem. So I'm asking a question this time - when is the Ministry of Education planning to bring a code for their occupation? What's very important to say at this point is that their direction has been lifted. They finished school, they had no idea there were no accreditations for that school, they were funded by the state, and now they're in a situation where the state doesn't recognize their school and admit their diplomas. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8806	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the people is Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8807	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that members of the government, authorised representatives of other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who call on the president of the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. The relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia has indeed become unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. The demeaning of this parliament by government officials, who think they are very important because they are called ministers, is something that this Parliament no longer can and cannot be tolerated. I remind you that today, with an hour of delay, we started working day, because the ruling majority was unable to provide quorum, which is only 1/3 of the MPs of the total number of MPs. So, that hour wasn't enough for Mr. Milan Markovic to be gracious and come here, to be in front of the MPs, so that we could communicate with him. Since I expect someone from the ruling coalition to say "be patient now, the minister will come," I say -- imagine that we started on time at 10 o'clock, and now it's 11.35 o'clock, which means we would have been working here for more than an hour and a half in the absence of Minister Milan Markovic. That gentleman really allows himself a lot. I'm waiting for him to come, so I can make some views about his behavior, but I want him to be in the O.R. then. Of course, I did not intervene in the Rules of Procedure now because I am impatient to see Mr Milan Markovic, so I should tell him what I should tell him, as a MP, but simply because the National Assembly cannot do its job in the absence of Minister Markovic. Remember yesterday's work day. We were able to explain to Mr Milan Markovic how many good amendments we submitted and his presence did so yesterday, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is his job and his task, accepted four amendments to the MPs. He's not here today. Is there any point in us talking about it at all, when we don't have an answer to whether there are any other good amendments that the minister is willing to accept, to get a better and more applicable text of the law. That is why I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that you ensure the presence of Minister Markovic or that you take a break until the gentleman deigns to come before the MPs. It's really pointless. We've talked about one amendment now, and we haven't finished discussing it yet, and I'll get back to you on that basis. Personally, I think it's a good amendment, but there's no point in talking about it if there's no minister here. If the minister says he accepts the amendment, then the discussion goes the other way. If the minister says he does not accept the amendment, then MPs who think the amendment should be accepted, in their address, are trying to persuade fellow MPs to vote for the amendment in the day of voting. So there are two aspects. I don't think we should waste our time here in vain, but work constructively. After all, it is the minister's obligation, I don't see why some colleagues look down on me and turn my head, etc., it is an obligation for the minister to sit in this parliament when discussing the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the government sent the minister here to be in front of the MPs and to discuss this place with the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8808	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Verice Radet. Mrs. Radeta, the clock is good, but I've allowed you two minutes longer to speak. Since I accept Mrs. Verica Radete's suggestion, I ask the service to ask Minister Markovic to come and be present at this session. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gojko Radic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8809	Gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 226. I won, I can't say that the answer to the parliamentary question, the answer isn't. I don't think the Minister of Education Loncar should consider MPs to be fools. I cannot interpret this answer differently. I guess we know, in this assembly, laws have been passed, which are celebrated in schools, which are unworkable days, when for Orthodox people, when for which other religions. I asked Minister Loncar for a concrete answer. We live in Subotica, in an environment that is mixed and we know each other well, we know when they are religious customs, when one of us celebrates. They are not all counted in the Law, and not all are celebrated according to the Law. If we respect other confesions and their holidays, then we ask others to respect ours. I asked the minister again, and I ask him a question -- on what basis could a member of the Law of Elementary School in Palic introduce that a Serbian, Orthodox "Storage" will be a working day, that it is mandatory for children to come to school, even though it is known to be a mixed environment and not all Catholics? It would be a problem if they went to school because something had to be done. The problem is, that day was done, that went to school to do "All Saints" and "The Day of the Dead," when Catholics celebrated. How does Mr. Director of the School, who lives upstairs, know religious customs and holidays, why he insults our feelings, why he introduces the obligation to go to Orthodox Suffocation School to do the same holiday that they celebrate? I ask Minister Loncar to conduct a conversation with the Director, to ask him why and on the basis of which member of the Law, such a decision has been made that Orthodox people must do the day, so as not to go to school for the Worlds and the Day of the Dead?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8810	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8811	Dear MPs, I urge you to return to the agenda. I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, that MPs are obliged to observe the agenda and speak of the agenda for this speaker. However, the precedent was made. We were on our way this morning and we started working on the agenda, but a colleague from the LDP came out here and opened some kind of question in Kragujevac. I have no doubt that this question is important, but by coming out here, you violated the Constitution, or you violated the Rules of Procedure. The only good thing you did at first, because you're aware that you're violating the Rules of Procedure, is you apologized to the citizens. Every day of this session is due to begin with your apology to the citizens of Serbia. That way, perhaps, even politically, there will be hope for you. Since the provisions of Article 226 are being opened here. The Rules of Procedure, so some parliamentary questions are being raised, simply, I urge you to intervene, from any parliamentary group to come, not to discuss other topics here, but to adhere to the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8812	The word is made by MP Goran Davidovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8813	Mr. Chairman, the MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly and, of course, to speak the truth. Since I am the teacher of the University of Kragujevac, the Medical Faculty, I am taking the opportunity to clarify for this speaker some things that are obviously unclear to some MPs. The Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac is one of the first universities to launch the accreditation process during this period and join the accreditation process. Within this university, there's a High School of Medicine. As a National MP, I personally helped to establish this higher medical school four years ago and the orientations that were mentioned here from all those who had completed this higher medical school had just completed, with the help of the Ministry, the current accreditation and consent of the Ministry, which was given that this school exists and that it could work. What is mentioned as part of the problem is that, within the framework of the law, it is necessary, relating to the National Employment Service, to really supplement the call for which there was consent and for which, even, the Accreditation Commission gave that consent, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the diplomas that were issued and signed by the Dean of the Medical Faculty are absolutely regular and correct, so that I can proudly say that all these people who graduated from this high school will certainly be able to solve this as soon as possible when it comes to the National Employment Service. The fact that the university, or the High School of Medicine, does not exist and does the job without accreditation, is the least said, it is a grave lie and I do not think we can deceive the public of Serbia and Serbian citizens for what there are facts and evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8814	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with three branches of government in this country, executive, legislative and judicial there is some obligation; this legislative authority, this parliament, however, is a little more equal than the others, and there is an obligation for the minister to sit here and listen to what the MPs have to say to him. It is for the People's MPs to explain the amendments when the Government's representative, when the minister is gone, because he missed it, that some excessive amendment has not been read and only prescribed that it is not adopted because of it and therefore, there is the possibility that, when the amendment is explained to him, it will accept it, making the automatic amendment an integral part of the law and greatly improves the legislative project. The point of the amendment is to improve the legislative project, because, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, in the previous term we adopted 260 and some laws, of which 260 remained for the policy, unusable, inapplicable, the rest to be taken by ministers. At the time of my ministry, I passed the law, all of which were laws on amendments and amendments to the law, and they mostly consisted of one, two, possibly three members. The third member mainly referred to that it would be applied from - to. I remind you that you have passed laws that will apply since 2012 and beyond. In order not to come into such a situation and not make a circus out of the National Assembly, the minister must sit here. I propose that the chairman take a break, find a minister, bring Minister Jocic in, if otherwise he cannot, the minister, sit down and listen to the MPs. Let me remind you that the ministers before the MPs take an oath, not the other way around. Therefore, out of the three equal branches of government, however, this parliament, this high home is more equal than the others. That's why I suggest that the chairman take a break, find a minister. I know that in the big business, it is necessary to introduce a forced administration into one of the radicals' municipalities, where radicals are a strong opposition party, to criticise thieving in these municipalities, it is also necessary to introduce a forced administration, so that the same ones who have stolen so far should be deployed, only to continue to steal, as is the case in Smederev. They're trying to take the win now. The reason is very simple, you felt the elections were approaching.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8816	We've informed Mr. Secretary. So we expect him to arrive very soon. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8817	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. The Rules of Procedure - the MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, and which it shall need to exercise the functions of the MP. This is the basis of my report to the Rules of Procedure, and before that, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I would suggest something to you. I know you're a man from the most democratic time of the Republic of Serbia, from a time when there were no restrictions in the time of the speech of the MPs from this pay phone, but these "yellows" and these Kostunicas will fool you, they will declare you not respecting the Rules of Procedure. Don't give me any more time past the Rules of Procedure. I can take it more than once. Thank you, I don't doubt good intentions, but just to protect you from those who only pretend to be your friends. So, a colleague here just said he was surprised, a colleague from the DS, why are we now starting to talk about the Rules of Procedure, when we started working nicely this morning. I remind you again, for the sake of the public, Mr. counterpart, I see you're reporting that you're replicating, I don't mind, if we had done a nice job this morning, then it would have been 10 o'clock, but we've been doing a nice job at 11.10 o'clock, because you gentlemen of the ruling coalition couldn't have provided one-third of the MPs in this House. One more thing about the relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the MPs. I asked the Prime Minister -- how many ministers in the current Serbian government have a passport from other countries. I received a reply - the MUP keeps records of travel documents issued, issued under the Law on travel documents of Yugoslav citizens, and then in two rows - "The Official Journal", and a list of how many times the law has been changed, 10, 12 times, "The Official Messenger" from 2005, and says - this ministry does not have data on persons who have passports from other countries. He signed Vojislav Kostunica. This, ladies and gentlemen, is scandalous. First of all, we are not asking these parliamentary questions to entertain ourselves from this pay phone, nor to entertain Serbian citizens. This is a very serious issue, and an irresponsible and irresponsible response from the government of the Republic of Serbia. They will have to stop underestimating the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia. We have knowledge that a number of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have passports from other countries. If I asked for information on the passport of other countries, then I know there are no passports issued in Serbia, but the Prime Minister who signed this letter has still not responded. I insist that he answer my parliamentary question -- how many ministers in the current Serbian government have a passport from other countries? I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8818	The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let's look at the situation of both the National Assembly and Serbia at the moment. It is often pointed out here that the National Assembly needs to talk about a certain agenda, and to see what the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution says, what it should be on the agenda today -- not cosmetic changes to certain laws, not what the ruling majority must put on the agenda in order to regulate Parliament's work, but what is the essence, what is missing to Serbia, what we do not have, and what we should have, such as the Constitutional Court, because it is a obligation prescribed by the Law on the implementation of the Constitution. We don't have a Constitutional Court for a while, which no other country can imagine. You have no one to complain about the violations of the most important rights that can arise and that we think are happening every day. Of course, various campaign parties are being prepared, we hear these and those tones, but we don't hear a conversation about Kosovo and Metohija. The assembly does not have a debate in front of it on what the Republic of Serbia will do if it reaches secession, an unlawful attempt to take away the work of our state territory. No one talks about it, or only the MPs of the SRS, warns the government from this pay phone that this is what they should be fighting for and that every day they show us what measures the government and the government are taking to prevent it. We don't have a minister today, even for the agenda point put up by the ruling majority, we don't have a minister in the benches, because he doesn't care about it right now. He's not in these benches, and he hasn't had the courtesy of coming down for almost an hour to hear what the MPs have to say. If the minister has something smarter, come on, tell us, so that we know what the government and ministers have more important than the talks in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of the National Assembly, or in front of its representatives. I have to ask, I have heard so, is it true that the arrangements are being made intensively on what role Boris Tadic will perform since December, when Tomislav Nikolic beats him convincingly in the presidential elections? I don't know if it's an agreement within the coalition that they can go into cohabitation, so Tadic can be a little prime minister, from January to next election, and then, rest assured, Toma Nikolic, as president of the Republic, will trust a Serbian Radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8820	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no conditions for continuing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because no government representative, state administration minister and local self-government Milan Markovic is present in the hall. We today need to discuss amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, and it is pointless to conduct a debate and talk in the wind when there is no representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. I must remind the MPs that the proposed law on amendments to the Government Act is very weak, that there are a whole series of faults and that we are trying to fix such a bad legal solution for our amendments. Indeed, there is no point in talking about amendments today and trying to convince you of the foundation of our amendments if there is no minister who is authorized to accept our amendments and that they become an integral part of the text of the bill. I remind you, too, that some of the solutions in this law are seriously questioned by human rights and freedoms. For example, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. It's about a member who actually returns us back to the time of Louis XIV, at the time of the police state, when the government acted on the principle of state reasons, not legal regulations. The public of government work and our amendments are being abolished we are trying to defend the basic principles of the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, through our amendments, we will try to point out to Minister Milan Markovic that his interpretation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law is not appropriate and that he has an obligation to, in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government, annul individual acts at the meeting of the Belgrade City Assembly since 8 October 2007. Minister Milan Markovic has been deaf for days about his obligation, or trying to find reasons not to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government, in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and thus protects the illegal situation in the city of Belgrade, which was established on 8 October 2007. On the other hand, he is trying to provide his DS party friends with power in those municipalities where the SRS won the local elections in 2004. There is no point, Mr. Mrkonjic, to talk about it today if there is no man here who is the most responsible for the situation in local self-government right now in Serbia and who is the representative of the Government, who should defend a law that is very bad, which raises the fundamental human rights and freedoms and the elemental postulates of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, Mr. Mrkonjic, there is nothing left for you but to give you a break, to suspend today's work, until Minister Milan Markovic appears in the Assembly Hall. Each minister is by definition a servant of the state, and that, above all, means the servant of the parliament who chose him. Therefore, Mr. Mrkonjic, interrupt the session until Mr. Milan Markovic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8822	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. We're taking steps for the minister to come. Please continue the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ms Milena Stankovic, and then, in order not to forget the order, MP Aleksandar Marton, then Aleksandra Jerkov, Rajko Baralić, Dr Zarko Obradović, Zoran Nikolic and, in the end, Vlado Sekulić, for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, reporting in accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure. I appreciate the fact that the DSS woke up, it was really time for you to talk too and show for this speaker that you can talk and you can answer some arguments. What seems to me right now is, since you woke up from that winter dream of yours, that our choices are in sight, right? We look forward to it, we members and LDP activists, by telling you one thing. While you are already in the campaign and speaking about it, it would be nice for you, in addition to these choices that we are obliged under the Constitutional Law to conduct, together with all of us here, to call the elections for Parliament, since the government has so far had the opportunity to show that it does not know how to do its job, because it has sent only one law in this House for all this time to talk about it. So much for the efficiency of the government. As for my apology, dear colleague, I apologized for being well-trained, and I really respect Parliament and the fact that we should be working on the agenda here. I only answered because these people asked me to bring their problem here, because they couldn't get in touch with your minister, Mr. Zoran Lonchar. So all the doors were closed for them, trying every way they could get in touch with the minister. Addressing the university, they were referred to the Ministry, and yet, on the other hand, the Ministry is deaf to their problem. Then, of course, they address whoever they trust and who they think can work out a solution to their problem, at least by putting pressure on the public. I can see that the pressure is strong, because you're a very violent response, distinguished colleagues. A colleague from Kragujevac, Mr. Davidovic, says he will receive his diplomas most recently. What does that mean? He'll get his diplomas most recently? They didn't get them for a year, what does that mean? I know that for you in the DSS, time is a very relative term, a relative category, because when you talk about joining the European Union, you say, okay, we will join the EU in 10 years. It's not okay, you might have time to waste, maybe you're okay where you are, but these people are hard and they want to work. Some of them did a traineeship, and employers showed the will to hire them. They went to the National Service and they told them there - we're sorry, there's no code for their occupation and we can't hire them. Now these people are sitting at home, unemployed, out of money, and they have a degree they can't do anything with. The question of responsibility arises - who is responsible, the University or the Ministry? Mr. Davidovic, I urge you to respond, with the need to draw attention that the accreditation procedure has been initiated, but for those other two directions -- for a professional physiotherapist and for a professional medical technician, but not for a senior pharmaceutical technician. That's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8824	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8825	Mr Vice-President, in the absence of Minister Markovic, and we have much to say to him from our parliamentary group regarding several amendments, I would like to ask several parliamentary questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia and one parliamentary question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Velimir Ilic. Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we all know Zoran Loncar, 23 August 2007, at a press conference, said the government of the Republic of Serbia will fully publish the Treaty on the granting of concessions for the construction, maintenance and use of the Horgos-Pozeg road route. However, unpublished annexes 3, 4, 5, 11 and 12 remain. We are asking Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica why this has not been done so far, and why do the Government and its ministers not keep their words? I'd like to ask the question, too, Prime Minister, and the entire government. Given that Vojvodina is highly damaged by the Treaty of concessions, I mean the Horgos-Pozega highway, we remind the government of the Serbian Parliament's decision on the harmfulness of the concession mentioned, as well as the request of this institution that, if the contract is signed, the government will be compensated by the construction of a Banatian highway and a bypass around Fruška Gora by 2012. We ask Vojislav Kostunica and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will this be done? I would just like to remind you that the decision at the AP Vojvodina Assembly was reached unanimously, only DSS MPs did not vote for this proposal. I would also ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Velimir Ilic, why is it that the promise, made on 22 August 2003, that he will personally make sure that contracts and all annexes are published, and if not, that he will resign, so far has not been fulfilled? After not doing so, I urge Minister Velimir Ilic to keep his word and make sure that everything regarding the dispute over the whole concession is available to the public. We talked a lot yesterday about the Minister's honor, and it's obvious that some people don't have it. However, we expect answers and hope to be satisfied soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8826	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, reporting in accordance with Article 226. We would really discuss something else, only if the minister were here, and like this, I think it's in vain to discuss the law when there's no one who's interested in hearing it, which only reflects the government's relationship to this assembly. Here's something about the government's relationship to the people of Vojvodina. It is a press conference held jointly by Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic and the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, when they said they agreed that Vojvodina had its representatives in the embassies that are important, as regions of importance, as well as in Brussels. What's the problem? The problem is that the DS cannot understand that such important state issues cannot be decided on the basis of an intra-party agreement. If Vuk Jeremic thinks that Vojvodina should have its representatives in the embassies in the environment or in Europe, however it is said, let him propose either a bill, or a bill, or a regulation, or a decision, or anything that will regulate such a way of working, and not to discuss it with and negotiate with his party colleague, then they both declare themselves at a press conference without any obligation to do what they said and implement. We believe that you, gentlemen of the DS, think that the state can operate on your inter-party agreements, have shown that, based on the situation in the city itself of Belgrade, from a few days ago, by electing mayors, but from you, with the number of votes you have from citizens, they really expect more. We ask that you no longer agree on issues that depend on the lives of the citizens of this country, because they are not really the subject of intra-party agreements. We believe that the intention of DS to get representatives from the embassies is sincere and they really want it, but the people of Vojvodina also believed that DS advocated the autonomy of Vojvodina, so they ended up with 7% of the budget for 30% of the citizens who fill the republican budget of 35-55%, so that the people of Vojvodina have enough experience with the declarative pledges of DS. They'll expect you, from time to time, a little more and we ask you to give it to them. In order not to pass again as with the budget and that the interests of the people of Vojvodina would not again be subject to intra-party crackdowns and agreements in the DS, we ask Minister Vuk Jeremic to say on the basis of which he will decide to do so, which will be the people, what places, which embassies and, simply, make mechanisms for the citizens of Vojvodina to meet their interests. Maybe the laws don't mean much to you, you showed that they don't mean much to you, but they mean a lot to us. The people of Vojvodina remember very well what it looks like when the DS advocates the autonomy of Vojvodina and the interests of its citizens, and that is how they supported the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8828	I thank the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov. The speech is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, according to Business, also so Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Nikolic, Vlado Sekulić, Momir Markovic, Goran Davidovic and Dr Nikola Zutic, eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8829	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm reporting under Article 225 of Section 1, where it's said - MPs have the right to be informed, now I'm doing it. When the budget's on the agenda, there's a lot to go on. At the request of Dr. Zarko Obradovic on the Administrative Board a month ago, he was forwarded to the Commissioner for Information of the public importance of the Republic of Serbia to provide information on the earnings and benefits of directors and board members and boards of directors, agencies and others financed from the budget. Let me, in accordance with Article 225, let me inform you of a few received information, and they will be here in a succession, since they are, otherwise, several thousand. You know, these tenants have several thousand in Serbia and they all have an apage greater than 100,000. The foreign investment agency, i.e. the director of this agency, has 137.000,00 dinars. They're the public shelters of Serbia. A lot of them got out there. Nice wind, nothing's going on, no one's getting away there, and the workers there, the employees, they've got lousy wages. But those who operate the "public shelters" have 110.000,00, board members - 50,000.00, board members - 44,000.00. It is their duty to join a party in good time. I don't know which party handles "public shelters" exactly, but that effort to join one party and sign an access card costs 48 times 50,000. That's how long one term lasts, and that's how much they're struggling there. Then, the Republic Property Directorate, where Mr. Tomic is director, with 133.000,00 and assistants, i.e. deputies - 118.000,00, 93.000,00 etc. EMS, the Public Enterprise of the Elektro Network of Serbia, networked that it couldn't be better. Now you'll see what it looks like. So the CEO has 289,713,00 dinars. He likes a man to have a big salary, he's got a nice network, and he's got no problem. His deputy has only 140.000,00, the chairman of the Management Board has 91,350,00 dinars, and members who are unemployed - 50,000,00, and those who are - only 27,000,00, while the Supervisory Board has 45,000,00 dinars. Here's just one more piece of information. He has a salary of 173.000,00 Director of the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers. They're the managers who sell out Serbia fairly afterwards. They sell one square metre in Serbia for a lower price than a square meter of land under those facilities. These are licensed by these bankruptcy managers, and these bankruptcy managers then, as fine as this, the domestic ruins of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8830	Please, Mr. Baralich, speak to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8831	I'll report to the same member next time, give the MPs information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8832	You'd better talk about your amendment that's on the agenda, so we can adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8833	When Mr. Minister returns, with great pleasure. Otherwise, Mr. Minister is at the DS presidency session. There's a very difficult situation. The pro-American and the Neming Wing can't agree when there's going to be an election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8834	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I volunteered to advertise the provisions of the article. 173 and 174. Rules of Procedure. (bell rings) It says there are board sessions public. Anyone can attend, media to report, funds for public information, but the point is that this public is a very limited range. What journalists do here, and the editors put it down, it shows up to the public. It's the public, it's the work of the Public Service and some other media. I reported on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group that the Serbian public, if not aware, that, for example, the president of the Security Committee, Mr Ivica Dacic, the president of the SPS, was trying to ensure for several months that ministers find the terms, find space to participate in the work of the Security Committee's session. It took him a lot of nerve, time, and tact to secure the session. The public service then informs the public of Serbia, which pays the subscription for the public service, for its work and for the notification, i.e. the public service completely ignores the fact that the president presides, whoever he is, and in this case - the Socialist. I'm deliberately saying this on behalf of the SPS. These are very simple things - or the public service ignores the fact that they are socialists in this House and that they should also be part of parliamentary life, to be presented to the public, or journalists working on behalf of the Public Service here do not do their job quality. If this is the first - it's bad for the Public Service, and we Socialists will know how to answer that. If this is another, let the Public Service do what other people here need to do, that they can inform citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its committees. I really don't think it's right, I'm even starting to think that it's obviously started somewhere, or that there's been an agreement on the start of an election campaign, so media plans are being made on how to access the media presentation of individual ministers, board members, individual parties, which is not unknown. It's a shame the public service, for which citizens pay their subscription. As someone who pays the subscription, I like to see, and doesn't necessarily mean that I'm right, that every chairman of the board, even the chairman of the committee that's from my party, will be visually presented to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't have to be quoted, it doesn't have to be said, but to know that the Socialist is chairing the Security Committee. I think it's normal reporting. As is the leadership of the Assembly, there are committee presidents. Some MPs do that job. It's time that the public of Serbia knew about it. If the public service won't say it, then all right, let the public know we're paying the subscription, and I'm paying the subscription, for what I don't think is a good job of the Public Service. I understand why the Socialists are ignoring each other, but it is good for the Serbian public to know about it. I am not going to say the only one, but our approach to this job is to warn the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the difficult situation in the Republic of Serbia -- to say that there is no job, there is no job opening up new jobs, that wages are low, that there are huge numbers of people on the poverty threshold, that schooling becomes unreachable, that health care is terribly expensive, that pensions are terrible, that there is no harmonisation, in one word, that the state of Serbia is not working and that it has become the subject of a political party contract. Of course, we also mention social justice, that workers should be someone who respects themselves - that they can't get fired, that the unemployed be the care of the state in a better way than they are now, and apparently that doesn't answer. Why? We're not a party to the tycoon. We don't have our own extra information tool, we don't have the right money to be able to promote ourselves in the media. We are left to be promoted here, in the Assembly, through that service we pay for the subscription. It is the least we can ask, to be presented at the Public Service for which we pay our subscription, to the extent that we are represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no less, no more, and that is not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8836	I thank Ambassador Zarko Obradovic. Please, I'll give you one notice of the termination of the MP's term of office. You have received a request from the DSS-New Serbia Parliament Group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, as a result of his death, to establish the end of the term of office of MP Miki Vlaovic, as well as the Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this request, which has determined that the death of MP Mike Vlaovic was the case of Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of MPs and suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that on the day of death, the term of office ended before the election of MP Miki Vlaovic, elected from the election list DSS - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8837	Dear Chairman, I was forced to report for the line, because my colleague, Verica Radeta, called me and resented my appeal to the president, or to the chairman, to observe the agenda. So I was talking about Article 103, which clearly states that MPs are obliged in the Assembly to talk about the agenda point. Here, topics, various, greetings and wishes are opened, to collect political points, and that is simply not good. So our common problem is that this congregation in public has a very low rating. It is not normal for all the political parties sitting here to have a significantly higher rating than Parliament itself. It may be good for individual parties, for all the parties sitting here, but certainly it's not good for the Assembly or for the state or for society. To that end, my presentation today and the appeal were to normalise the situation in this assembly, to really adhere to the Rules of Procedure, not to abuse it, that if the minister does not, by the way, I heard that he was here at 10 o'clock, it is his obligation to be here and now, it can't be a reason to open a variety of topics. So let the MPs go out and call out why the minister isn't here, but then you can't go on until these famous five minutes, talk all sorts of things and open a variety of topics. So, a colleague from the LDP says - she's being asked for. Well, believe me, if we from the DSS were to open topics about everything citizens have asked us for, do you know if we were presidential elections -- December 9th would be elections, but in 2008, and you here announce and hope there will be a choice. Believe me, nothing depends on you, you can sit there quietly and you'd better not go out. Your only task is to kill a Serbian national being, to spread defetism in this country, to represent in public that there is, however, a small and irrelevant political force, but which is ready to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. But like I said, nothing depends on you. This is where you resented me not going out so often. You who do not respect the Serbian folk tradition, let me tell you a folk, beautiful, Serbian proverb - better and shut up, so let people think you are ignorant, but come out for this pay phone, speak and remove any doubt, as you have done. So, you're smarter to keep your mouth shut, but here I've heard from my colleague Stefanovic one very interesting thing. Again, he called on Article 226, but opened a man of political theme, and here he is talking about presidential elections, so if I understood well my colleague Stefanovic, it was announced that Mr Tomislav Nikolic would go to those presidential elections whenever they were called. Here, we get confirmation. So, you want to support Mr Boris Tadic, which is a new political moment in our reality and I want to draw your attention to that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8838	Thanks to MP Nikolic, he was very sharp. I ask the People's MP to take a word of it to the Government of Seculic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I'm sorry there's no minister here. I'd like to propose to the Minister where he should introduce an emergency administration. I'm reporting with intent to explain where to introduce a forced administration, which is the municipality of New Belgrade. The municipality of Novi Belgrade should have a forced administration because the municipality of Novi Belgrade is being torn down by temporary facilities that are still in the court's dispute, the militia is being carried out, largely, with eight stamps, specials, as citizens call them -- "the turtles". I would like my question to be passed on to Mr. Jocic - on whose order do temporary objects collapse? Who's paying for it? It's been going on for two years now. It was the last time that a force was applied, perhaps an overforced force, had occurred, literally, to brutal scenes, beating up owners and members of the Survival Association, which is registered, which is fighting in the territory of the municipality of Novi Belgrade to retain its kiosks. To make it clear to everyone, kiosks are being removed, temporary objects, which have been there for years and have their functions, are being removed to allow Mr. Canet Subotic and his "Futuri Plus" to hold a monopoly on New Belgrade. A competition was staged in New Belgrade, through the Public Business Area, where the former director left a loss of 30 million and a few million, which he set up, and was promoted and went to the director of the Public-Accommodation Company. The second came from the staff, normal, DS, and everyone had unequal conditions, only Mr. Subotić picked up all the locations, because it was due to give for one month 212 thousand for expenses only. Another reason why an emergency administration should be introduced in New Belgrade is because all the green area has been sold, everything that was to be sold in New Belgrade is sold; infrastructure is being arranged, such as parking for citizens, in fact, for those who buy these facilities. Mr. Ozegovic boasts that New Belgrade is the best municipality, but I will also tell Mr. Ozegovic next. It's not just New Belgrade where he paints, its 28th bloc, but New Belgrade and Ledine settlement, where people were without a drop of water all summer. The SRS spoke to both the water and the municipality, and we asked that the Municipality of Mediator be that people have water. Second of all, the Bezanja settlement is looking forward to spring every year, but for the fourth year it is hard to wait for spring, to do sewers and plumbing. The Bezanija settlement is the oldest settlement in New Belgrade, which has no plumbing, no sewers, and nothing has ever been solved. For what I still want to say, I was encouraged by the Morning Programme at Study B. Mr. Ozegovic boasted, he talked about the Jewish cemetery. For information to Mr. Ozegovic and the citizens, we wrote about the Jewish cemetery in Ledin, how the board was removed, and that there was this desecration there, man doesn't even know what it was about. I am sorry, but I have an obligation to ask a question for Mr. Jocic - whose order and by what law are fans of any cheerleading group, any club, to bring flags to stadiums? You saw, last week there was a protest of all the fans, they didn't want to enter the stadium because they weren't allowed to enter the flags. Is today going to be allowed to enter flags at the Star-Bayern game to take the money? So, when there's an international game, they can flag up, when it's not an international game, when there's no money, well, then it can't, because our championship's not looking well. Now, when a foreign club comes in, it needs money now, and now it's going to allow fans to enter the flag. We know, under the old law, flags were allowed. In the new law on the prevention of violence, there was an amendment, where we participated, i.e. An amendment has been adopted to allow jokes, hats and flags. You don't know what we're talking about, you weren't here, you weren't a sport man, you were interested in youth. They are our children, and they should be allowed what is allowed throughout the world. This is discrimination against fans. This will get a much wider situation, as this process allows for a deliberate excess between fans and police, and this will be to the detriment of both the Serbian and youth states.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8840	I thank Ambassador Sekuliæ. The word has a People's MP... Excuse me, one moment. Radicals have agreed, well, Hope will get you right behind her word. [[Intruder from the scene, Hope Kolundji - can't cross the line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundzija, allow me, my colleague Markovic has given me his order in the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it. I have reported that I am responding both as a woman and as a colleague, and as vice president of the Assembly, because Mr Dragisa Djokovic, who has changed five parties since he was a multiparty in Serbia, known to his DSS colleagues very well, as they dragged him as "the Bear Divine at the Fair" to move from... Well, yes, that's what the people say. What do you want, Mrs. Kolundjia? I can't, colleague Mrkonjic, you've been busy since you've been watching. Dragisa Djokovic, not for the first time, but for the second time, a colleague of Verici Radeta, a lady, a lady, the heroine of this Serb congregation, cursed her mother from the assembly bench. Shall I suffer it as vice president of the assembly, will it suffer the hope of Kolundji, will you all suffer it? We can tell each other whatever we want, but to curse your mother's wife, especially her mother, who has suffered terrible, creepy days in her oldest days, who has escaped from the Ustasha knife, who cannot go to her late husband's grave, who has raised three beautiful children... Mr. Djokovic, as a Serb, as someone who comes from Kosovo and Metohija, you cannot behave like this, wherever you came from. It's not your first time. We warned you, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in the last session, when you referred the same curse to another SRS MP, not to do so. If she hadn't heard from Mrs. Kolundji, I know she's a lady, and she's a mother, and a wife, and she'd never agree. You take your resignation, say you are not up to this call, say you are a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian people and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and to the DS who put you here. I apologize to you, Mrs. Kolundjia, for coming out of line, but believe me, I couldn't help but react, especially for the fact that it was a woman, a colleague. She can protect herself, but, knowing her and her family, her honorable mother, I couldn't help but react, both as a colleague, and as a daughter, and, above all, as a Serbian woman, who does not allow such an insult to anyone and to destroy the dignity of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8842	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word, please. I'm asking for these discussions in the bench, you need to calm down a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8843	Mr. Chairman, I don't want to go over the line. People have applied in accordance with the order and, please, if the Rules of Procedure is already being misused and there is no use preventing the infringement of the procedure, it is injures the procedure of calling on the Rules of Procedure, please, at least we hold the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8844	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. The People's MP Goran Davidovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. (Verica Radeta, from town: The order is Momir Markovic. No, Momir gave the word to Natasha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8845	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say to an esteemed LDP colleague in Kragujevac, since members of the DSS have been measured, well-trained people, I don't think the assembly speaker is the place to call when who and how many hours he's up and who's awake. As far as I'm concerned, personally, I get up every morning six hours ago, if you're interested, just so you know. And as for the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and the laws that have been passed, the government of Vojislav Kostunica has passed more laws than you can count since you were awake this morning. As for what you've been talking about, when it comes to this school, you mention that certain students of this high school are going to get their diplomas as soon as possible. I haven't said for a moment that your students are about to get their diplomas. They've already won diplomas and I'm sorry you're talking about a problem you don't understand. I'm talking about being surprised by your concern right now. Where you were four years ago, when this school was created, when it was necessary to solve a spatial problem for the formation of this school, the consent of the then minister, Mr Vuksanovic, and the current minister, Mr Loncar, to find the funds needed to make this school work. I think that's the kind of concern, when all this is over, on your part, it can be, to say the least, hypocritical. On the other hand, there is a problem with the fact that, in certain amendments to the Labour and Encrypted Action Act, the titles given after the completion of this school should certainly be subject to the work of this assembly, on the proposal of resolution ministries. It's not just this school. There are such problems in other titles, and I think that if you wanted to make a constructive contribution to solving the problem, you could point out that in a completely different way, to say it nicely - we suggest that you do it and not to talk about how people got diplomas and, retailes, finished the non-existent school. These are important differences, and I'm sorry that someone's talking about the subject that way, and that's the problem that doesn't really understand. On the other hand, as for the reputation of this school and the reputation of the university itself, you come from Kragujevac and I am simply surprised that this is how you question the University and the city from which you come. I think it's only for you to do the honors. I don't know what college you are or where you ended up, but I'm a teacher at that university and trust me, I'm proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8846	I thank the MP Goran Davidovic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8847	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In my first announcement, I commented on the response I received from Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, an answer to the parliamentary question, and I did not finish. That's why, first of all, I'm going to get on with it. In fact, I visit for public and stenograms, I asked the Prime Minister -- how many ministers in the current Serbian government have passports from other countries? I got an answer that this ministry, and it was signed by the Prime Minister, I don't know which ministry he means -- does not have data on persons who have passports from other countries. This is a scandalous answer, ladies and gentlemen, this just confirms our suspicion. That's why I asked this question, it didn't happen to me, but, as I said in the first report, we have reliable data that a number of ministers have passports from some foreign states. It is simply amazing, given the fact that the minister is a state official, to get such an unserious and irresponsible response from Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. In his presentation, which was a replica of my previous presentation, counterpart Zoran Nikolic said he only appealed to the chairman to work on the agenda. It's just amazing that the MPs, who sit here, are just waiting for the day when they're going to push the green button, and today there's only fifteen of them, I mean the ruling coalition, it bothers when the MPs say what we're saying today. We also have information Mr Rajko Baralic has taken out of this place that Minister Milan Markovic is at the meeting of the DS General Committee. It's just a scandal over scandals, that his party is a liability to him, rather than the National Assembly. It's amazing that you gentlemen can support such a thing. Just because you support the government doesn't mean you have to support every craziness of every minister, gentlemen of the DSS. Now Mr. Zoran Nikolic says he thinks the election campaign has already started, that this means that Tomislav Nikolic will go to the presidential elections, that he will thus support Boris Tadic. That's what a member of the DSS tells us. I will talk about the amendment, how the DSS supports DS, since counterpart Nikolic, I guess, is a two-term MP, and for the third time he went out for this pay phone, says we use famous five minutes in the Rules of Procedure. So he still doesn't know that the Rules of Procedure have changed. You've cut our time, Mr. Nikolic, we have no more rights for five minutes. It says here for three minutes. It was in that old book. At least read that much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8848	I would like to thank the People's Parliament to the Faith of Rade. The People's Messenger Dr Nikola Žutić then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, and Srdjan Sajn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I am not satisfied with the answer to my parliamentary question to President Vojislav Kostunica. My parliamentary question was - what the government of the Republic of Serbia is thinking of doing against anti-Serbian acts, the open separatism of the Vojvodina League. I have received a very short, precisely easy answer from the president of Kostunica – the MUP, on the basis of so far's knowledge, does not have any information regarding the above-mentioned parliamentary issue. It turns out that a number of acts, numerous statements by the duchy leaguemen, not only them, but Kostreš, which is a milder variant of them, which requires only judicial, executive and legislative authority, are not acts of separatism. I mentioned, you were probably present when I spoke about the acts of duchy separatism. Today, young Miss Alexandra Jerkov has just expanded the cycle of separatist demands - that Vojvodina has its diplomatic representatives. It is an outrageous statement in a sovereign state that certain provinces are also seeking diplomatic authority. What's the fourth power, next to this three, so someone doesn't call himself a separatist? It is, in my opinion, only God's power, because, besides the judicial, legislative and executive authorities, there is no fourth authority in any country. So this is about open acts of separatism. That's why I'm surprised by the unsuspecting response of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8850	Thank you. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin be prepared according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 194 of the 2nd century. Three and four. Before I move on to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic said - and beg us. You're not asked by citizens. It's not you, it's not the LDP gentleman. They're begging the citizens of the SRS, and they've cursed you a long time ago. To go back to what I answered. Mr. Chairman, try not to violate Rules of Procedure and Rule 194 anymore. Just to remind you, Article 194 of Section 2 says - The government determines the members of the government who represent it on certain issues that are on the agenda of the National Assembly session, that is, at the session of its committee. That means the minister is required to attend the National Assembly session. The Minister appointed by the Government is obliged to attend the meeting of the committee responsible. Article 3 states that representatives of the Government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees can only be members of the Government, and that means only ministers and secretaries of the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives, when the National Assembly session is on the agenda of the draft law prepared for the Government by the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives. Representatives of the Government shall participate in the work of the National Assembly with the powers laid down by law. Mr. Chairman, this means that the minister is required to attend the National Assembly session. It's not his good will. He cannot assume a session of the National Assembly session of the General Committee. I understand that on many district committees, amazing things happen, in this "yellow company" which, by the way, are called the Democratic, Pardon, Democratic Party. I know there's chaos there now, because many people expected much more than the party itself could take. I know that many do not agree with their president, or president, at the accident of Serbia, Serbia, Boris Tadic. I know it's amazing where the turmoil is. That's not why a member of the government, Minister, isn't sitting here. With his absence, he humiliated all the MPs, and us from the SRS, and you, gentlemen, who are his subjects. With this move, he humiliated this tall home. That's why I demand, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, that you take a break, that you bring in the minister, that they postpone the meeting of the General Committee for the afternoon, for the evenings, at a time when they usually meet...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8852	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8853	... Not to tell the avets, when people meet with such convictions, and then find the minister here to answer the questions that MPs ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8854	Thank you. I again intervene that Minister Markovic will attend the session, regardless of the obligations he has. Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8855	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. A few things I'd like to do about it. First, I would ask an SRS MP who spoke for this side yesterday that they were "satellites", regardless of what I asked him yesterday, to clearly define who the satellite is. He didn't do it. Just to inform him, according to this article, the Roma Party is no one's satellite, no one's running us, no one's giving us directives. If anyone thinks that in Serbia every political party has to be a satellite, then that's his problem, then that's not our problem. The next thing I want to tell Parliament, it's a week ago that he keeps insisting on MZ Kostolac, i.e. People are asking to pass a law on local self-government as soon as possible, because they believe that in this territorial organization they are damaged. Namely, although Kostolc has a certain level of development in the economy, there are no adequate solutions to the health cell issue, or any other issues. There are serious support and other political parties and people expect that under the new law, in the new territorial organisation of Serbia, Kostolac is a municipality, because without it they cannot see themselves as true entities of democracy, but the citizens of Kostolac experience themselves in another way. The next topic I want to talk about within these three minutes is to ask one question to the Ministry of Education and to the Ministry of Education to comment on an article from the list "News" on Thursday, 25 October 2007, which says on page 20 – "No Roma in benches". He's referring to the next one. I understand parents who have problems not wanting their children to go to school with children who don't have certain hygiene habits. Also, I understand parents who say that some kids, I get the circumstances, are now Roma children, can't properly get an education fast, because someone isn't ready to go to first grade. I don't understand why these parents are asking these Roma children to separate into special departments, and in this one school in Belgrade, according to the article, out of 450 students, 30% are Roma children. I can only understand this, that the Serbian Parliament, that the citizens of Serbia and all of us give clear orders to the Ministry of Education that those children, before they go to first class, are able to go to first class together with all the other children, have the same habits and that Serbian children have the same chances when they start education. Any other way is something that does not lead Serbia through where all children in Serbia have equal chances. In that direction, we expect an answer from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8856	The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, as well as a folk MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Article 1 states: "The MPs of the people are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly"; Section 2 says, "The MPs of the people are obliged to address one another with respect"; Section 3 says, "It is not allowed to use offensive expressions." I must say, I'm very unpleasantly surprised by the behaviour of the head of the DS Group of Representatives, Mrs. Hope Kolundgia. She's obviously extremely nervous, I don't know why, in the last few days. That wouldn't be a problem if she wasn't acting inappropriately. It all started two days ago. We have all seen her reaction to Miss Natasa Jovanovic sitting behind the chair of the chairman and starting to chair the session. A completely inappropriate reaction was beyond any criteria. So, I, and I believe those who are longer than I am in this home, have not experienced anything like this. Today we are able to witness similar behavior. I guess that's the quality of those who think they're powerful. Someone once said that whoever sits on that chair is completely changing in a short time. We also saw Cedomir Jovanovic here, we saw Milos Aligrudic, there was no one sitting on that chair, but what characterized them all at that time, when they were completely losing touch with reality, was that within a short period of time they were inclined to think that they were powerful and that there were no rules for them anymore, that they were there to go out to share justice, lessons and pucks for all MPs, whenever they thought that, eventually, someone had not done what they did or that the chairman had not done well. Mrs Nada Kolundzija criticised the chairman for allegedly coming out of line for Natasa Jovanovic's pay phone, but Natasi Jovanovic gave his order and did not go out, and was registered according to the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the same Mrs. Hope Kolundzija skipped a dozen MPs who were reported and said, "That's not nice, don't do it like that, we won't do it in a row, I'll do it again." If you don't want the order, then why did you abuse the Rules of Procedure, why did you get out of line? I'd have to ask you one more thing, Mrs. Kolundjia. I think one of the main reasons for your anxiety is the legal violence you committed in the Belgrade City Assembly. If you are such an expert in procedure, I will ask you something which I have so far not, as far as I have followed, asked any of the MPs of the SRS, and because of the fact that this part of legal violence, this offence, took place after the SRS MPs left the session of the City Assembly. I'm done. It is already known that the right of the SRS has been denied that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it proposes its candidate for the president of the City Assembly, and this right has been denied to other parliamentary groups. What's interesting is that you didn't even wait to formally propose a candidate, but in advance, it will be clearly seen from the stenogram, prepared ballots on which the only name was Mr. Alimpic's name. Here's what President Branislav Belic says. There was supposed to be a debate, and there was no debate. He says, "I agree that, as a candidate for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, we have established Councilman Zorn Alimpic. The president's election will be held in secret vote, ballots. The vote takes place by rounding the regular number in front of the name of the proposed candidate, so that we have the correct record" etc. Then the secretary of the City Assembly Irena Ljubomirovic says, "Here we open ballots, stamped. We had a very simple, earlier proposal. You received a written proposal for President Alimpic. The service didn't waste time, she did the ballots in case there was no other candidate." So before the session of the City Assembly, before that point was put on the agenda at all, before Mr. Alimpic was proposed, they made ballots, multiplied them and stamped them. Answer that, Mrs. Kolundjia, since you are such an expert in procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8858	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Obviously, we'll go after the Rules of Procedure until the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8859	Mr. Mr. Gristle, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's absolutely true. Article 225(1), Mr. Mrkonjic. It is quite clear that the interpretation of the amendment only makes sense if the minister is present, because the wish of one who has submitted an amendment on behalf of one party, as I have signed some amendments on behalf of the SPS, is to try to obtain the approval of parliamentary groups to vote on a certain amendment, to correct a specific legislative project and that the minister, as an authorised representative of the Government, has here the right to accept the amendment on behalf of the Government. If that were to happen, as you know, and if it is accepted by the board of directors, then it becomes an integral part of the amendments and the addition of the law, as it is here today. Then we do our job in accordance with the rules, with the procedure, etc. The fact that he's not here today is not our problem, that he arrived at ten o'clock this morning, and you from the ruling majority didn't wait for him, is not our problem. Both are your problems. The fact that he's in the DS presidency session isn't our problem, that's your problem. The fact that there are two wings there, so they can't agree, is also your problem. We came to the National Assembly to do our job. You are making it impossible for us, because the minister ignores the amendments of the MPs and thus disrespects the National Assembly and the MPs. That is why we are doing this, so that the citizens of Serbia know why we are doing this and we are giving them useful information along the way. Please don't honor us for what we do here. We, as it is said in my village, have been done here to do our job, and we are going to do it, whether you like it or not. So we'll do it the way we started until Mr. Markovic gets here. When Mr. Markovic comes, we'll start discussing the amendments, because that makes sense. So much for that, and say hello to Mr. Markovic, and I wish him the best, and now he has to be here. So, the Directorate for Measurements and Precious Metals, according to Mr. Sabic's report, the director - 126,792 dinars has a salary. A very valuable salary, I admit. Serbia Railways: Director - 125.000; Chairman of the Management Board - 104.000; member of the Management Board - 81.000. So much for that. As far as bankruptcy managers are concerned, I just said that this agency licenses bankruptcy managers, reproduces a bankruptcy mafia in Serbia, and that for a state-run money of 137,000 dinars a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8860	I thank Mr. Rajk Baralic for his wages. Instead of Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, the word has been given by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8861	It -- who it is, it can be determined, but you certainly can't, you don't have those options, so you don't need such big problems to torture you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to give some information about this information Mr. Baralic provided, so that the public, in any way, or MPs, or anyone else, would not misread. On the Management Board today, in a way, we agreed that, when it comes to this information that we receive from public enterprises and boards, we wait to get all the information, by leaving it to every MP that, in accordance with the interest or way he thinks it's best to use it, to have freedom, but the Administrative Committee will not go public with this data until it gets all the data. Because in a way, if we come out with the first data we get, we punish those who are correct, based on our request, to deliver that information. We think it's much more useful for all this data to be collected on the Administrative Board, to open the agenda point where, as a congregation board, we'll take a stand. I hope that with this attitude we will go before the Serbian Parliament and that, in general, we will determine ourselves according to enormously high and unwarranted profits in public enterprises and boards, there are agencies and many other institutions that have been open since 2001, formed, to satisfy many, first, party personnel, and then staff from NGOs, so that the people can see the burden on their backs by coming to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8862	The word has a national emissary, Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is a member of 225. Mr. Davidovic, take your stenographic notes, so look what I said when I first came to Parliament, and what you said, and you'll see that I was right. You're saying we're bringing up a problem now. I'm worried now because now I've learned that such a problem exists. I've been hanging out with some of these people, with some of them who've been studying that school, and they've been studying, taking exams, believing that when they finish that school they'll be able to get a job. So they realized they were learning a school that didn't exist the moment they wanted to start a working relationship. That's why I brought that problem up. It's kind of pathetic when you say you mean Kragujevac, you mean the university, you mean the city's reputation. I'm doing all this and I'm saying all this because I love Kragujevac, but you don't like Kragujevac by pushing problems under the carpet. Kragujevac is loved by the problems being solved and we never, I repeat, would not have presented in Parliament that the ministries and those responsible for this were open to this problem. But they were not open, but rather, they transferred responsibility to others. Although people tried to get in touch with them, it always ended without results. What I'm suggesting is that we be practical. Now that I see that this topic is very important to you, you could stand up for this problem of theirs, solve it, and in a month we could see what the result of that work is. That would be totally fine and I think this is a way to solve the problem. As for counterpart Zoran Nikolic, it is true that the problems should not be opened here, but if the ministries were doing their job, then we wouldn't have to do it. If the DSS did its job the right way, the LDP wouldn't exist. The LDP was founded because of everything you're doing. We are moved by all that you do, that is, what you do not do, and what you do is a disgrace and a disgrace to Serbia. What's very important is you're saying that LDP is not an important game. If we weren't important to you, you wouldn't be talking about us with so much anger here. When the arguments are silent, then anger speaks. Our actions speak for themselves enough. What's very important is that you want to get back on the agenda, come here and say, I really think we should get back on the agenda, and then talk about LDP for 10 minutes. I know that our existence is a big problem to you, and that your reaction is a great motivation to be even more serious and even more valuable, to work more closely with the citizens of Serbia and to bring their problems here, because they have no one else and where to turn. Here you are again, as well as colleague Davidovic, it is your manner of speaking of sacred Serbian tradition. What matters to us and what the LDP insists on is that Serbia is most loved when it is told the truth, and the truth is that we are the most isolated society in Europe, that we are isolated, that our young people are looking for a way out of this country, that old people are eager to die to solve their agony, their existential issues, and that's what you are responsible for. What is very important, the DSS is responsible for the position in which Serbia is presently located, primarily the DSS, but also the DSS, which is not at all. The Javaschluk I've just pointed to is just one example of government and ministry dysfunction. What I can see is that what you do is what you do, and you don't deal with the problems of Serbian citizens, systematically destroying those values that the citizens of the 1990s fought for. The LDP won't let you, when the DS is silent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8864	The word is made by the MP Slavisa Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8865	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, I'm looking for an explanation. Mr. Chairman, can anyone order Minister Markovic to attend today's session?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8866	I just asked Mrs. Hope Kolundji to call again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8867	Mr. Chairman, take advantage of your authority, so, if necessary, invite Boris Tadic to attend today's session, because he is obliged to attend the Rules of Procedure, according to that rules of procedure which the DOS has brought. Do you remember that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8868	I remember, Slavisha, of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8869	You've been calling him so far, but we've seen it didn't produce any fruit. Try telling someone, or you ordering them, that the minister attends this session, so we can continue our work on the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8870	I don't have that authority. The president has scheduled a session, he has the authority to call. When I have those powers, I'll do it with pleasure, I'll call only those in my Rules of Procedure, of course, with a consultation with Mrs. Verice Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8871	Mr. Chairman, give me back my time. Thank you. Since we have received information that Minister Milan Markovic is on the Democratic Party's main committee, we insist that Milan Markovic is obliged to attend the assembly session, to continue working on the agenda, and to leave his party's foreign affairs and problems with the Democratic Party, because this is much more important, much more important; he is a minister and should do his job as a minister. We've heard information that certain things have been happening in Panchev lately regarding local self-government. There is an indication that this is the reason for the absence of Mr. Minister Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister against local self-government. If I have to explain to those present why - against local self-government, it is because of what happened at the Belgrade City Assembly session on October 8th, when they illegally set up a V.D. Mayor of Belgrade. It is my duty, because of the citizens of Panchev, who repeatedly answered the phone today at our Parliament club, to ask a few questions, so that the public would be familiar with the problems of the Pancheva municipality. Mr. Chairman, I'm not asking you to answer me, because you have this custom, but we're giving this to the competent ministries, these questions. Is it true there was a fight on the DS County Committee in Panchev? Is it true that Milan Babic, the chairman of the DS District Committee and current president SO Pancevo, resigned as president of So Pancevo after the fight, followed by Mr Milan Babic against Srdjan Mikovic, the president of the Pancevo municipality? It is said that Mr. Mikovic is Boris Tadic's favorite. The citizens of Pancheva ask how Srdjan Mikovic, with his son-in-law, Dragan Bosil, the president of the Regional Chamber, also from the DS, won a huge fortune? Is it true that Mikovic is Boris Tadic's favorite and owns a villa on Dedinj? In the privatisation process, they purchased several Pančeva enterprises: "Freedom", "Gai", "Food Food Factory" and "Pubuk" modesty and other factories at cost. Is it true that Mr. Mikovic, using the ties and friendship of Boris Tadic, allowed the construction of a 'Maxie' discount in the city centre? Have you given me my time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8872	I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8873	Here, two more sentences, let me finish, so I'll get back to you, if you'll excuse me. I insist that these are listed checks and that we get answers to these questions, because of the public and the citizens. I still have my questions, so I'll continue my next report to the Rules of Procedure. I insist that all these problems are the problems of the DS and its president, almost, Boris Tadic, a little more Serbian president, and that is what I was thinking, and while you, Mr. Chairman, invest your authority of the builder, convince the minister to perform his duty and come to Parliament immediately for a session, or interrupt this session, take a break until Minister Milan Markovic comes to the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8874	The word has been made by MP Dragisa Djokovic, but it is not in the hall. Now he has the word of MP Zoran Nikolic, so Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8875	Mr. Chairman, I'm not answering the Rules of Procedure, but this is a replica of Mrs. Verica Radeta's presentation, which she has now given me to read carefully what she said, but I would also draw your attention to what I told you in the previous period. Here, I'll do it again. So she, for example, resented me, although it doesn't bother me, that I rarely go out for a pay phone and I keep my mouth shut. Since I gave my advice to my LDP colleague, I'll give it to you. I'll remind you of a fact I've already told you once, but you obviously didn't understand and you forgot, which is not good, politicians should remember. So, in the People's Radical Party, in the early twentieth century, and you heritage, I guess, that tradition, at least that's how you present yourself, there was a division of business. Laza Pacu worked for the party, Stojan Protic argued for the party, and Nikola Pasic kept quiet for the party. We of the DSS are very often forced to remain silent, because it is state and national interest above party interests and because we are in this position where we are, we exercise power and we are responsible for all the events in this country, and this people, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The right of the opposition is to abuse our position, but here comes the time when we simply cannot keep quiet, or we must answer. I can see that you have a particular problem with me opening up the question here whether Mr. Tomislav Nikolic is going to the polls, regardless of when they're having an argument. I understood Mr. Stefanovic that he said so. I'm in a big dilemma. I know that the Central Ministry of State has not been held and that it is not an official position, so I was worried whether Mr. Stefanovic was authorized to make an official position of the SRS for this speaker, or perhaps he made his own position. I think it's very good to have that thing resolved here. As for Miss LDP, you are, of course, very nice to me, as a new, young MP. It's very good that you're opening topics here, absolutely, I have nothing against you or your party, I'm just saying that nothing depends on you. As you have the right to make political assessments about the DSS, so believe me, I have the same right. I don't agree with your assessment, and I'll always stand up against it when you say we're not advocating the fight of our citizens in the 1990s. Believe me, everyone sitting in the DSS benches was in their midst one of the leaders, if not the leaders of the fight against the former regime and the new system of values. So our system of values differs greatly. I firmly believe, and that is what citizens confirm in the elections, that citizens are more willing to vote for the system of values and for those like the DSS, than the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8876	The word is by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, then Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8877	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have reported to you, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of 445 members of the DS General Committee, to inform you that there is currently no session of the DS General Committee, because when a session of the DS General Committee takes place, it is an event of great importance for this country and its citizens, and it is all media. At these meetings and meetings of the General Committee, very specific decisions are made, which have also resulted in good results from citizens and citizens of this country. I volunteered to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. The chairman is obliged to give notice to MPs who speak offensively about other MPs and to say that the warning is made if offensive expressions are used, if facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons are presented. Please give a warning to Mr. Momir Markovic and Mr. Topalovic, because I am a member of the board of directors, and I am not a member of a thieving organization. I'm a member of the DS General Board, and I'm very proud to be a member of the DS General Committee, and when I want to be a member of a company, then I'm going to start my own company. On the DS Board of Directors, there are honorable, honest and honest people. And Zoran Djindjic was a member of the DS General Committee, and Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia, is a member of the DS General Committee. Also, I have to react to Mr. Topalovic's very inappropriate statement. The only fight that happened in Panchev, Mr Topalovic, was a fight between police and Serbian citizens in 1999 and 2000, when you were in power and when you sent the police to mutilate and cripple the citizens of Panchev, because they expressed political attitudes that you did not like. It is the only and last fight in which the Democrats participated in Panchev, and I am very proud to have been to Panchev at the time, Mr Topalovic. Mr. Mikovic Srdjan is Mr. Boris Tadic's favorite, but he is also a fan of the citizens of Pančev, so they voted for him and beat the SRS to death. Since you've already abused this pay phone and asked questions, let me tell you that we've had to hire volunteers upstairs, how many calls are coming to the DS Parliament Club, nonstop phones ringing. They're asking if it's true that there's not been a session of SO Rum? You said you didn't have 50,000 euros to share with the MPs. They ask me, is it true that temporary measures were introduced in Svilinco because the budget was blocked yesterday in Svilinco? He says no temporary measures have been imposed, but it is true that the SRS supported the mayor in Svilinc, or the president of the municipality, and beat us, is that right, Ms. Jovanovic? Will you now, of your parliamentary salary, give it to the citizens for heating after you blocked the budget yesterday for 200 million dinars for abuse? Will you, Mr Topalovic, tell the citizens where everything happens at the SRS MPs' clubs, or do you want me to inform you? I'm sure I won't get off this phone booth. Believe me, there is no municipal board of the SRS where there are no fists and no slappings in front of the meeting of the municipal board, because you can't agree on how to share what you stole. I don't want to abuse a pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8878	I'd like some peace, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8879	... Because I'm nicer than you, because I'm more than you and I belong to a different system of values. I think we should talk from this pay phone about laws and amendments. So there's no session of the DS General Board right now. I apologize for overstepping my time and having to report to the Rules of Procedure, in this way to respond to lies and untrues at the expense of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8880	I ask the People's MPs that, by safeguarding the dignity of the congregation, we really liken the words we speak for this speaker to each other. The People's MP Vladan Batic, then MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic, came forward. Please be patient, you're all listed here, let's take our time and say something useful, if we're not already talking about the agenda and the amendment of MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Article 226. Before that, I wanted to say, as someone who's been pushing for years to respect human rights, especially the right people with disabilities, that I was going to suggest that an opportunity be introduced to interpret or translate to people with disabilities, I mean deafness, which is what they're talking about here, because for some MPs, I thought that, God forbid, they have this kind of handicap. Some today have reassured me, and it is good if we do not have that need, with all respect to those with this kind of handicap. What I wanted to ask the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and the Minister of Education is something published in the South Press, with which the public met the Dean of the Faculty of Arts in Kosovo Mitrovica. The Faculty of Fine Arts, namely, bought four apartments from the University of Pristina, which was moved to Kosovo Mitrovica, so that ten days ago, members of the security department of the Mitrovica hospital would fall into four apartments, according to the Faculty of Arts dean, that is not my statement, at the time they were in lectures, or while they were not in their apartments. The head of Pristina University, Mr. Zdravko Vitosevic, also told the "South Press" that it was reportedly not accurate that there was an exchange of apartments, so the dean of the Faculty of Arts confirmed it again, because one of the four apartments was the apartment in which he lived. The offer is that, like, there are members of the security of the Mitrovica hospital, I don't know since the hospital has security of that kind and so many, and that the building is being built for the needs of a health center in Kosovo Mitrovica, so when it's over, then the teachers of the Faculty of Arts will get apartments, and for now, let them manage as they know and know, so they are now located in two private hotels in Kosovo Mitrovica. I think it would be my turn for the public to be informed and the ministers to declare this public and official claim by the Faculty of Arts dean in Kosovo Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8882	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, so, according to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic, we do not go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8883	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm calling for a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. You can see for yourself that there is a problem in how to get the necessary notices about a law that is on the agenda when there are no government representatives, no proposing representatives. I do not want to go into whether or not he respects the National Assembly, whether he is disgusted by some MPs, it is his personal choice, however, I must call upon the Rules of Procedure and the Law, that the Government is obliged here to be properly represented by a person who could answer any questions concerning the law on the agenda. I can understand that Vojislav Kostunica, under pressure, had to propose to the Minister for State Administration and the "against" local self-government, as it is now more precisely, as a man who is an expert in security. That's what a man wrote in his biography, he teaches at that Dragisic at the university and, probably, if it's not the main committee session, then at the House of the Assembly is a NATO counseling, today Carla del Ponte is there, and that's all security and Mr Markovic, perhaps, has to be present at that course to get another degree as a model courser. It has nothing to do with this law that's on the agenda. We can't even argue about those who are trying to demean the National Assembly, and I must say that there is an extremely good discussion in the National Assembly, regardless of what is on the agenda. Gentlemen, as long as the big questions of our lives are being debated behind this pay phone, it's good and it means there's a political system. But if, in our efforts for a culture, such as those that have shown not only indolence, but also in savagery, October 5th, we fall for that story and move political life to B 92, RTS, then there will be talk of pets, not big and important things that are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You saw yourself today, during this debate, which is rightly like this, because there are no government representatives, that so many facts have come to light, that citizens have only now had the opportunity to learn some things they could never read in controlled print media, and especially on B 92 and logistics media to support NATO and all opponents of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it is good that this debate is going on, it is good that you demonstrate a democratic spirit, allow the MPs from this speaker to speak as public tribunals, to inform the citizens of what is happening in the state, what is being prepared, and at the moment when the minister in charge, as a representative of the government, comes, then allow the debate in accordance with the amendments, as is scheduled this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8884	The word has a folk MP Aleksandar Martinović, then MPs Veljko Kovacevic, Goran Davidović, Slavisa Topalović, Slobodan Maras, Vjerica Radeta, Srdjan Milivojevic and Dragan Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8885	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a shame when DSS MPs compare with the famous statesmen of the Kingdom of Serbia from the beginning of the 20th century from the People's Radical Party. I don't see it in the House of People's MP Zoran Nikolic from the DSS, but there are his party colleagues, so let them tell him what I'm about to say. At a time when Serbia was ruled by Nikola Pasic, Stojan Protic and Lazar Pac, whom we from the SRS today were extremely proud, Serbia was growing bigger and bigger, and in 1912 we freed old, or southern Serbia and joined Serbia. On November 24, 1918, Srem decided to join Serbia, and the next day, November 25, 1918, such a decision was made by the National Assembly in Podgorica. At a time when Lazar Pachu was Minister of Finance, the dinar was worth a French franc. At a time when radicals were in power in Serbia, at the beginning of the HH century, Romanian King Carlo and made that famous statement -- I would like to make Serbia out of Romania. You tell me if there is today any state in Europe that would like to be like Serbia, when they are in power of DS and DSS? As radicals increased the state, while Serbia was then one of the most respected states in Europe, you, DSS gentlemen, and the DSS, buried two states -- the SRJ and the SCG state union. Today, be quiet, to the shame of the entire Serbian people, when your friends from the white world are trying to break our state of Serbia, or to take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. As for Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's exposure, man obviously has a problem with understanding reality. Mr. Milivojevic, the entire Serbian public could see how the president of the DS Municipal Committee in Ruma and the self-proclaimed president of the Ruma Municipality's Assembly took off their jacket and wanted to fight, i.e. a physical fight with a man who is 30 years older than him, who is sick and who wears a stick. You brought your B92 television to paint, namely to show the public of Serbia how, to God, the wicked and corrupt Serbian radicals in Ruma are pushing for peaceful, fair and European-oriented Democrats. But then you recalculated. Obviously you lost your nerve and then your representative in Ruma, president of the DS Municipal Committee, took off his jacket and, to prove himself a great hero, tried physically to deal with an old and sick man. The whole public could see how DS behaves. What you're talking about -- Europe, democracy, human rights, on one side, but what you're doing, it's a big shame. I think all Serbian citizens are convinced that what you do in Ruma and other local self-government is an attempt to compensate for your inability to win the election. What you can't do in the election, that's what you're trying to buy with money. I invite you, Mr Milivojevic, to go out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone and say in which local self-government in Serbia the SRS bought any councilor. Our attitude is clear. We don't want other people's committees until the current mandate is over. When the mandate is over, let them move to the party they want, but there is no example that any councilman from another party has moved to the SRS, nor do we want to accept that. Serbia is full of examples of DS and your satellites buying committees, thus trying to compensate for your defeat in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8886	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The People's MP Veljko Kovacevic, then the National MP Dr Goran Davidovic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8887	Dear People's MPs, as you know, I call on Article 226, to inform you of the situation in the Municipality of Kladovo, and also to say a few things about the previous presentation of some MPs, as regards the positional side. For example, first of all, I would ask Mr. Milivojevic, I'm the chairman of the Municipal Committee in Kladovo, did you hear anyone fighting in Kladovo? I'd like you to replicate right now. I've been there for 10 years, president of the Municipal Committee, so let me see that, because I don't know, and you said there was no municipal board where some radicals didn't kill themselves. For you, that's it. Secondly, I'd like to respond to Miss Jerkov. Please, look here, this is the map of eastern Serbia -- this is the road network of Vojvodina, and this is the road network of eastern Serbia. Remember that in eastern Serbia 30% of the total amount of electricity is produced in Serbia, in the Kladovo municipality. That gold or earrings, everything you have, is produced in Bor, and that's 100% gold in Serbia. I didn't see anything that you stood for much for that part of Serbia, for its development, as you advocate for Vojvodina. Don't forget, half of mine are in Vojvodina, I have half a family in Vojvodina, and I know Vojvodina well. I don't know why you fight so hard when it's such a developed part. I guess something needs to be transferred, some even development, and to that part of Serbia, which gives a lot to this Serbia, which is perfectly normal. I'll say one more thing for the minister of justice. In Kladovo, there is a company once called "Brodemont" and, with a number of criminal charges from Negotin to Kladov, there is no way to solve the problem of small shareholders. In fact, the multiple value of small shareholders is reduced by making six companies out of one company, watering down, so that some 20% of the shares that had small shareholders now account for about 4%. For nothing are all the criminal charges that are being filed, standing in the drawer of an ad act. So much for that. Secondly, for Minister Cvetkovic, who participated in the privatisation of Termoventa, where his pasture is one of the customers, it is now allowed to register the mortgage twice, in some strange ways. It is also under the Kladovski Court, the Republic Court, for criminal charges. Looking at the whole situation, I would ask these LDPs to reduce their passions a little more realistically and to see Serbia's development, and the SRS, in every respect, will see it leveled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8888	I thank the MP Veljak Kovacevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Davidovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8889	I am a doctor, and I think I have enough objective criteria to assess, when someone is speaking from this pay phone, whether there is hate speech in that speech. In my address to this pay phone, and to my colleagues from the DSS, I have not, indeed, noticed that there is any hate speech for anyone, or for LDP MPs, because I believe that different opinions and different visions of certain political situations and relationships should not be a reason for this kind of behavior. As for the problem that the DSS allegedly puts under the carpet, and as for the town of Kragujevac, here, I'm going to list today how the DSS puts under the carpet problems in the town of Kragujevac. In a previous session, under the government headed by Vojislav Kostunica, the city of Kragujevac had been stopped from degrading and destroying the city, which, unfortunately, was present in some previous period. In just a short time of four years, the Clinical and Hospital Center has grown into the Clinical Center, which has provided a number of jobs and positioning of the city itself, not to mention that the budget of the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac, Maltena, is equal to the budget of the town of Kragujevac. Those who deal with health problems know that well. Not to mention that the power centres, Telecom and PTT, which were formerly distant from the town of Kragujevac, have been returned, because that really, essentially, belongs to the town of Kragujevac. Not to mention that the government has written off a $460m debt as a prerequisite for solving any other story regarding the flag problem. Not to mention the 45 million-dollar debt written off to Fiat, not to mention the projects of "astre" and "punta" that are now under way. I don't want to talk about the establishment of a Faculty of Pharmaceuticals in the last four years and its opening, or the higher school mentioned by my colleague, about the construction of highways whose five kilometers have already been completed and the plan is to continue. This is just part of what was done for the town of Kragujevac. We're hearing here that there's supposed to be a problem, a LDP colleague worried about some colleagues she knows, who asked her how to get a job. If all this hadn't been done, I'd like to see where these colleagues would be employed in the town of Kragujevac, that's first. Secondly, I'm curious, if there was such a problem and if someone wanted that problem solved, they could have spoken to me personally. The first time I've heard from a colleague about such a problem, she's the one they're talking to. Of course, with what's constructive, which is good, as far as my colleague is concerned, I agree, i.e. To solve this problem. It is really necessary to comply with the Law on the work of a certain code regarding occupation, and it is obtained after completing not only a high school in Kragujevac, but also many other schools. This should certainly be one of the affairs of the restoring ministries and the Republic Assembly. It's good to do such an adjustment as soon as possible, first of all, because of those people who finished those schools. What I want to point out on this occasion, and what I want to pay particular attention to, is that, as far as the university and this high school are concerned, I looked at the careful stenogram, and I didn't mention at any point that these people were finishing a school that was nonexistent. It's really not true and, two or three times I've warned about it, it's about a school that's very respectable and that's got all the necessary accreditation. What the colleague also mentioned, and it is related to the practical accreditation of one of the directions in this high school, it is a matter of business policy of school and programme, how they will educate and in which year they will open and enroll. That, of course, is no reason why people who ended up that way couldn't get a job anywhere after that. On the contrary, it is certain that high-level pharmaceutical technicians, after finishing this school, will have the opportunity and where to work in the town of Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8890	I thank the People's MP Dr. Davidovic. The word has a National MP Slavisa Topalović, then Slobodan Maras, and Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8891	Mr. Chairman, Article 226, I'm looking for an explanation of what I'm entitled to under the Rules of Procedure. Before that, let me refer to Mr Milivojevic's exposure. We heard from Mr. Milivojevic that Srdjan Mikovic, president of the Pančevo municipality, is Boris Tadic's favorite. I repeat, the citizens of Pancheva say he is connected and is involved in many affairs in the territory of the Pancheva municipality. Mr. Milivojevic is not here right now. So, the man that the citizens of Pancheva claim to be involved in all this I'm going to ask you later, Srdjan Mikovic, the president of the Pancheva municipality, is a favorite of Serbia's current president, a little more Serbian President Boris Tadic. So he's a friend and favorite of Boris Tadic, and despite all this stuff I've asked, what the citizens are saying and what I'm going to ask again. I ask the question – does Boris Tadic know of all developments in the territory of the municipality of Pancheva and of the operation of the president of the Pančevo municipality from his party, DS? Is he familiar with that? I'm asking again, since there are indications, the citizens are reporting again, is it true that there was a fight on the DS District Committee in Panchev? Is it true that Milan Babic, the president of the DS district, the current president of the Pancevo Municipality's Assembly, resigned as head of the municipality's assembly after the fight with Srdjan Mikovic, the president of the Pancevo municipality? Is it true that Srdjan Mikovic, with his son-in-law, Dragan Bosil, president of the Regional Chamber of Commerce, also from the DS, acquired a huge fortune? Is it true that Mikovic owns a villa on Santa? In the privatisation process, they bought more Panchean companies, I repeat, I just said that, "Freedom," "Gay", "Food food factory", apples and starch, as well as others, at great prices. Is it true that Mr. Mikovic, using the link and that his favorite Boris Tadic allowed the construction of a 'Maxi' discount in the city center, in the center of Panchev, without a building permit? Why did Mikovic Srdjan of DS allow the construction of such a building without a building permit? I ask the departments in charge to check out allegations of ownership of these companies, say there is no building permit for this facility, and the police ministry - to check out who is behind these companies and is that all because someone is a favorite of Serbia's current president, even a little more, Boris Tadic? A question for the police minister -- can he check the suspicions and claims made by the citizens of Panchev that the building, which was built without a building permit, was designed for NATO headquarters in the centre of Panchev? So, we ask the minister to check if it's true, and is it true that this villa, which I just asked if Srdjan Mikovic owns on Dedinj, was built by a commission for that building in the center of Pancheva that was built without a building permit? I insist that these are listed checks and that we get answers to these questions because of the public and the citizens, and yet again I repeat to you, as chairman, put all your authority to bring the minister here to sit down, so that we can continue the agenda, because he is obliged by the Rules of Procedure of this assembly to attend the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8892	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Slobodan Maraš, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8893	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Unfortunately, the assembly speaker has become the only place where LDP members, i.e. LDP MPs, can tell the public some truths and give some facts. The main reason for my report is what's been happening in Serbia the last few days. I think you're all witnessing that one company, more specifically, the Delta Company is putting incredible pressure on all the media in this country to cover up one truth, which is that the Delta Company was involved in cigarette smuggling during the '90s. Yesterday on the Security Committee, which, of course, the RTS, the Public Service, was silent, gave Minister Jocic the number of items, the name of the officer, then the captain, who worked the case, the report he wrote, which clearly shows that the Company "Delta" participated in the smuggling of cigarettes through the border crossing of General Jankovic, and in the interest of the Milosevic married couple, or the Milosevic family. Of course, the public service kept it quiet because it's under a lot of pressure, among other things, and the Delta Company. The other thing that we would have to transfer to the Public Service is that in the previous days he kept quiet in all possible ways of saying that the president and other LDP officials who indicated that there was a conflict of interest, that Mrs Milka Forcan could not be the person to brand Serbia, so she cannot be at the head of the Council. In fact, it would be branding 'Delte' rather than Serbia, and that's what we fought against and what we spoke clearly. The Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest confirmed these LDP allegations, gave its opinion that there was a conflict of interest. However, the public service kept it quiet. Thirdly, which is very important when it comes to public service, or RTS, or the director of this television, is a shameless show that was broadcast on RTS on Tuesday, the "The Mirror", after which MP Batic was attacked in the most wireless way, because he criticised the work of the Public Service. The show was staged in the celebration of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic and was called as guests of people who opened the door wide on March 12th. We think it's embarrassing, that it's embarrassing for the Director of the Public Service to deal with all those who criticize him through the Public Service whose director he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8894	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8895	Mr Mr Mrkonjic, first of all, I would like to warn you of Article 121 paragraph 2 - if the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, or next to it, my identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the National Assembly secretary. It's obvious here that the number of cards on the screen, you can see, here, in the front rows you have three or four cards, and the MP is gone. I know you've brought such a Rules of Procedure, not you, but these from here, that it doesn't matter how many MPs sit here, but given that DS and DSS MPs are bothered when I ask the cameramen to take a look at and film, if they don't find what's going on in this House interesting, I would ask you to call the service to make this situation relevant. If you'll allow me to continue, please give me back the time, because I haven't used all three minutes that I could have used in this article, so I can continue as part of Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8896	We've already taken action, please proceed from zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8897	Ladies and gentlemen, the basis of my announcement is Article 104, which warns that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is just amazing how some MPs of the ruling coalition treat this parliament. I do not understand the anxiety of the MPs whom I said yesterday, I suppose, someone has ordered them to sit in Parliament and report from time to time to the word, so that the citizens of Serbia may bear in mind that these parties exist in Serbia as well. You don't have to sit in the O.R. to let the citizens know about you. They know Serbia's citizens about you in their busy wallet, in their lost jobs, in their small pensions, by all this evil you've been known to since the five-octobaric coup on Serbian citizens, ladies and gentlemen. It was an interesting observation by Mr. Zoran Nikolic, this is a kind of replica, but since there's been a lot of talk in the Rules of Procedure here, it's almost forgotten, although I haven't forgotten what I intend to replicate. The gentleman said he didn't understand why the MPs didn't speak exclusively under Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I am now asking him - if it is the only member to be used in this House, what are the other members and what is the Rules of Procedure for at all, why not just write that one member 103? Better yet, I suggested the other day, that someone wait for us outside the gym, give us the text we need here to read, and then it'll be best for you who don't want to hear the truth about you, about your authority. We're sorry you don't like it, but we have to, we will, and we will keep saying it. Here said Mr Nikolic that it is a state and national interest that they remain silent and that that is why they do not report to the Rules of Procedure. The state and national interest is to resign, I mean the Government and the President of the Republic. It's the only state and national interest, ladies and gentlemen. And Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, so upset and angry, shows up here, and apologizes first for speaking in the Rules of Procedure, which is amazing to me. I will never apologize for speaking to the Rules of Procedure, and I would apologize if I were to speak past the Rules of Procedure, and if I were to apply my law to the Rules of Procedure, I don't see who I should apologize to. It is possible that we have made a mistake, Mr Milivojevic, that it is now not the General Committee's session, but the DS presidency. We don't care about that formal structure of yours, but the fact is that Milan Markovic is out there, at some meeting of his party, not with the MPs, where he belongs. You said very loudly and jadly that honest and honest people are sitting on the DS Main Board and that Zoran Djindjic also sat there, sitting there with Boris Tadic. Mr. Milivoevich, I didn't understand whether you were complaining or boasting. We do not claim that all DS members, or the DS Chief Committee, are dishonest and dishonest, but we argue that Boris Tadic is not honorable and honest and we claim that Zoran Djindjic was the mafia prime minister. If that's what you're boasting about, it's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8898	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. After him, there are four other speakers per Business - Rajko Baralić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Nikola Vukelić and Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8899	Dear gentlemen, 225 and 226. I don't think anyone got here this morning, and many days so far, no one's won, no one's got an individual, no one's got any MPs. In that sense, I refer to these two members. I think that for today's work, this is my grudge to engineer Mrkonjic and the chairman of the Assembly, it was either to ensure the presence of the minister or to take a break until this presence is secured, because, regardless of what is said here, every word for this speaker is valuable, we can't, individually and all together, all the MP groups, justify this one, I call it in the texts – "Hide Parliament", it talks whenever and when who will. It's not about the subject, it's about the subject. It's about the free topic. In order for these free topics to have a purpose, celery, a day can be set for them, when the entire government will attend and give concrete answers, because in this way, when local topics, micro-themes, macro-themes, everything is mixed, what is the effect? Practically, it is a purely pre-election campaign, which is good, but still, before this assembly there are laws, infinitely many laws that are already in the procedure and the system laws that are yet to come. In that sense, I don't think there are any winners here, that we all have to be somewhat ashamed as individuals, as individuals, because we don't work effectively. Whoever's to blame in this case, that's really gonna show time. The election will show. We really can't feel like winners, either of us individually or any party. Second, a relationship with reality and a threshold of sensitivity. It seems to me, as an individual trying to be objective, independent of position, that the threshold of sensitivity is the biggest party. I'm talking about the SRS. The SRS can't fully relativise everything, it says about the million people's movement, when Serbia rose up, about October 5th, that it's an international coup of people. You're witnesses. Why are we relativating time and people? Millions of people participated, the whole of Serbia stopped. Whether it's right or wrong, the time will tell, but it happened, it wasn't an unnatural set of groups of people. Likewise, we all need to raise the threshold of sensitivity to some tolerance by all MPs. No one can have the right to insult another parliamentary group without, at the same time, accepting insult or harsh criticism from the same or other parliamentary groups. My closing sentence is - I think we should not hold a debate today without the MPs having a diary. That's my suggestion. We, gentlemen, didn't deserve a living today, because we lost before noon, and we haven't made any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8900	I thank Dragan Vujadinovic. The word still has MP Rajko Baralic, please, just a minute. I accept Mr. Vujadinovic's criticism. But I was told that the minister would be present. I'm asking the minister to come and resume the session at 3:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8901	Very short. The voters will judge who is what they did here today and who deserves what they deserve. I just called to say, short, two things, how important what I was talking about. I got word from people, so they asked me, Rajko, is it possible that the director of a public company, EMS, has 89,000 dinars? He didn't hear a man, the ESM director has salary, Serbia's Elektro Network, 289,000. By the way, I apologize, speaking of all these questions, I mentioned only one name, and that was not my intention, I could mention all the other, Mr. Tomic, from the Asset Agency, to him the Government, as well as some others, determined the salary. The power grid of Serbia and others, where boards produce salaries, where they determine how many members of administrative and supervisory boards will have, are our target. How many Serbian citizens can't pay for electricity, because this man has 300,000 per month's salary. What are we talking about here? What's this about? How many people in Serbia, south Serbia, east of Serbia, cannot reconcile their financial obligations, or 1,000 dinars a month, because their director has almost half a million per month! That's the theme here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8902	It's a good thing someone apologizes when something's wrong, I think Mr. Rajko is obliged to apologize to Mr. Milan Tomic. Thank you very much. Resumption is at 15 o'clock. There are four other speakers. I hope the minister will come. The session will be chaired by Mr. Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8903	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon work. Before that, I will read to you the confirmation of the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with the RIK Report on the selection of a People's MP, in order to fill a vacant seat in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dejan Stojiljkovic, elected from the DSS-NS election list - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the RIK report and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Board, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of a People's MP, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dejan Stojljkovic. Congratulations to the People's MP. We're continuing our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8904	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting for a member of the Rules of Procedure and I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, members 104, 105 and 106. So, in the morning part of Parliament's session, several SRS MPs have made harsh lies and insults at the expense of DS, above all, to the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Mrs. Verica Radeta said it was the mob president of the government. Mrs. Radeta, the mob president of the government is recognized for whether or not he is carrying a hecler or a gun and whether or not he is carrying a vittle gun in front of Parliament. The mafia president of the government is recognised for whether empty bills of Serbian citizens remain behind his work, and full of cemeteries and chapels. In this I do not recognize Zoran Djindjic, nor do I recognize Zoran Djindjic as the president of such a government. I recognize another man as a man who waved a gun in front of the Serbian Parliament and moved a hekler on the students, and in his right pocket he carried a banana crust, so that someone slipped and tripped on that banana bark. I don't want to open the debate in this direction. I think your tone, especially yesterday, was inappropriate when you said the Democratic Party killed Zoran Djindjic. Do you, Mrs. Radeta, perhaps have some new circumstances and knowledge about this tragic event? Why don't you tell them to the special prosecutor, you tell them to Parliament and the citizens? It's lies and misinformation. I don't want to compare the work of your president and President Zoran Djindjic. I don't think that's appropriate or necessary. On the other hand, Mr. Minister Milan Markovic arrived. I think you've been complaining all afternoon, moaning and moaning about him being gone. I'm not answering the Rules of Procedure again, to show that we're ready to work. Also, I want to answer Mr Topalovic. A smart man should be repeated once, however, repeating is the mother of success for those who have failed in life. I'll try to tell you again a few times. There was no fighting in Panchev, at the DS Municipal Committee session, there was no fighting. Mr. Mikovic is a favorite of all citizens of Panchev, who voted for him and, thanks to these votes, he beat all of you in the elections in Panchev. That's why the president of Panchevo municipality is. The Democratic Party has no problems in its functioning. We know very well who will run for president of Serbia and we have no problem in dying in New Sad and bidding whether or not they will run, nor do we have a problem that the party president has to finish law school, so he would run. He made all his commitments in time, ready for the winning race, ready to take over as president of the state again when he won the presidential election. So, I apologize once again for having to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Radeta, I don't think it's necessary for me to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the members of the SRS do. I answer, not when you insult me, I'm used to it, but I answer when you insult the man who died, who laid down his life so that we all live like the whole normal world. I thank both you and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8905	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Nikola Vukelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS doesn't want to obstruct the work of this assembly. We just wanted to allow Minister Markovic to return to the O.R. and thus no longer humiliate the National Assembly and us - MPs. It is clear that in certain units of local self-government there is total chaos, which reached its culmination on October 8th, at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly. This chaos and violence is being spilled into other municipalities where the DS is trying to force itself to usurp power. The problem is that the Ministry of Local Self-Government acts as an exposition, i.e. an extended hand of DS and legalises the legal violence that makes DS with love letters. Turning the ministry into a private feed of DS has, apparently, a domino effect and is spreading across all ministries, thus expanding to the foreign ministry. Croatia's support for becoming a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council is the highlight of the court's policy of apologizing Boris Tadic and his associates. Instead of supporting Croatia, our diplomacy, which is under the control of Boris Tadic, was to deal with the elementary rights of Serbs who were expelled from the space of the former AVNOJ state of Croatia. Among other things, it is also the right to return, without chicing and police torture, the right to rebuild ruined houses and other immovable property, then the right to retire with retroactive action. Since 1991, until 1996 and 1997, citizens of Serbian nationalities who were expelled from Croatia have not received these pensions and those pensions have not been returned to them until today, and Croatia is constantly delaying the resolution of this problem, in the desire that these people simply disappear biologically, from which all the perfection of the independent state of Croatia is seen. Then there are a number of other problems. We're wondering what's wrong with the several thousand people that the Croatian authorities have filed charges against, alleged war crimes. On these charges are the more significant representatives of the Krajina Serbs, and above all, there are ordinary citizens who have only fought for their lives and for the lives of their families. We now have the case that Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic congratulated the current president of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks, the election of Croatia for a non-permanent member of the Security Council, the same Seks who, during the 1990s, was also the president of the Croatian Parliament and the vice president of the HDZ, who was headed by Franjo Tudjman. I will remind you only of some statements by Vladimir Seks, now reportedly a great Democrats, to whom Dulic sends his congratulations. So in Australia, Adelaide, a town near Sydney, at a Croatian emigration rally, he said, "Whoever opposes the desire of Croatia's thousand-year-old dream will be cut down by a Croatian sword." Or, his statement on Croatian radio, where he says: "We will remove anyone who opposes the creation of an independent state of Croatia, even if it is a brother in blood." Croatia's support to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council, especially when we bear in mind that this strengthens the front of the countries that advocate Kosovo's independence, then, given that Croatia is suing Serbia in front of the International Court in The Hague, it is a complete madness, an incredible and anti-state policy of Boris Tadic and our diplomacy. Croatia's support, with the almost simultaneous signing of cowboy warrants and a bounty on hunting for Serb heads, for hunting for people who fought against Vladimir Seks, Stipe Mesic and other Croatian villains, who are now happily seen guests of Boris Tadic, is the ultimate proof that the DOS government, headed by Boris Tadic, touched the bottom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8907	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8908	I'm reporting under Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, which is a replica of Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's exposure. Mr. Milivojevic, the criminal actions of Zoran Djindjic were discussed both by current and then by his associates, and the current DS summit, among other things, is Boris Tadic, not to list others, Dragoljub Micunovic, etc. I will remind you in one sentence of the letters they signed, among other things: "The attempt by the executive authorities and the administration to usurp all power in the party is known long ago as that dangerous bureaucratic and authoritarian tendency against which all democratic parties are fighting, and so is ours. The chairman of the DS Executive Board, part of the executive bodies and administration, made these preferences quite clear." Then the signatories of this letter, Boris Tadic, Dragan Domazet, Ljubomir Tadic, Desimir Tošić, Radoje Prica, Djordje Zečević, Slobodan Vukcevic, Lejla Ruždić, Borka Bozovic, Borvoje Mijatović, Mirko Ivković, Dusan Kuzmanovic, Istvan Maroš, Miodrag Brankov, Jovo Vukelić, Dragoslav Bozic, etc., among other things, say: "The immediate danger to the party is the absence of any control of material and financial business, the lack of budget, with the intended revenues and expenditures, and hence the arbitrary use of funds". So, Zoran Djindjic was the one who voluntarily spent DS funds, which is absolutely not the problem of the SRS, nor is it a problem for Serbian citizens, but the problem of Serbian citizens is that Zoran Djindjic was a mafia prime minister, as a member of the "surcin clan", as a superior to Janjusevic and Kolesar, as a participant in criminal privatisations such as, say, Popovac's privatisation, as commander in the "duvan mafia", in the "oil mafia". There's as much as you want and all the citizens of Serbia know it. After all, I will remind you again, you asked for it yourself, ask Zoran Djindjic's mother, she says in the paper that she should ask Ruzica Djindjic what was left behind in the property sense by Zoran Djindjic. His mother says that only Rose knows that and that only Rose knows who came as a friend to Zoran Djindjic's house and who could possibly be the taskmaster of the murder. We leave it to the authorities, Mr. Milivojevic, of course, but this is also something we learned from you. You're accusing the government of every murder that's happened at some point. Don't we have the right to behave the same way? You were the government when Zoran Djindjic was killed. DOS killed Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8909	The People's Messenger Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8910	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, we're glad the minister came, he was away all morning, we were waiting for him. We heard that he was engaged in the narrow party interests of his party, and now here is the opportunity to deal with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the interests of workers, above all, workers of the state administration and local self-government, tax authorities, school workers, health care professionals, who joined in their demands and workers "Jumka" from Vranja, "Azotara" Pančevo, "Robno houses" Belgrade etc. In fact, there are several tens of thousands of workers, Mr. Minister, who are strikers and who are members of the unions employed in the administration, the judiciary and social organisations. On this occasion, I would like to point out, first of all, the status in which they are now and what they are being striked for. It is unfortunate that only one parliamentary group stands out, it is regrettable that they have no chance of saying for themselves what is bothering them, how much they are tormented. I'll brief you on this, and I suggest that the funds of public information pay a little more attention to that. Namely, they say that some categories of employees are paid lower earnings than minimum earnings, that no regress and a warm meal is paid, that no planned increase of earnings is paid for the third quarter of the year, that workers declared a technological surplus are not paid compensation, that there is no social dialogue with the restoring ministries on matters of earnings and other material issues of employees, that the deadlines for negotiations for the construction of a special collective contract for public authorities, that the Law on the salaries of civil servants does not apply to employees in local self-governments of Serbia, as well as a proposal for a special collective contract for state authorities. I just want to remind this opportunity that the SPS wants to point you to these anomalies in society, which are current these days, which is that there are those amongst the workers in these bodies and in this building that receive below 13,000 dinars a month. Whether they're getting a hot meal or not, they don't know it, or they're so transparent of the payroll they're getting. Who are the technological surpluses, how are they paid for these social programs, which the SPS claims are not social programs? I'll talk more about it when it comes to amendments to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies and amendments to the Law on State Administration. Now, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to hear these demands from them, to receive them, because they require it from you, from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8911	The word has the People's MP, Hope Kolundji, head of the DS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8912	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to some, apparently, going to the most intense election campaign, I remind you of article 101. The Rules of Procedure say that it is not allowed for the MP to express himself in his presentation at the National Assembly's session to be offensive, to state in this regard the other persons, the parliamentary group, etc. Mr President, when the People's MP, Verica Radeta, makes the worst possible charges against the entire assembly, then you have an obligation to warn her, you have an obligation to stop such statements from this pay phone. I ask you either to give a warning to the People's Parliament to the Verse of Radet, or I demand that in the day to vote, MPs be made aware of whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken today on several occasions. I insist on this violation that was committed the last time, not only because of the fact that no one, no integrity, no one's right to a relationship with the late Prime Minister Djindjic, but because you think everything is absolutely allowed in the political campaign. Not everything is allowed in human or moral or political terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8913	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8914	Mr. Chairman, I reported to the Rules of Procedure solely because Milan Markovic was present. Please write again that I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because I have a Mr. Milan Markovic to speak to himself. By the time I got out, I had no intention of replicating my colleague Nadia Kolundji, but I don't think you have the right to remind anyone of any morals or political, or of any circumstances; I don't mean you personally, I mean the party you belong to. The SRS isn't in any special election campaign, we're in the campaign, as far as it goes, always. If you think the campaign is to tell the truth from every public place, we're telling the truth, Mrs. Kolundjia, and we'll never stop it. Does it bother anyone, whether it hurts someone, one way or another, we really can't help you here. I would also like to remind you, Mrs Kolundzija, and the citizens of Serbia, above all, that the president of Serbian radicals is in The Hague as a political prisoner for five years, based on the indictment written by Zoran Djindjic, Goran Svilanovic and Nebojsa Covic. That fact will never be forgotten by any Serbian radical and we will never stop talking about it. Of course, everything I said earlier about Mafia President Zoran Djindjic did not, precisely, Mr Krasic, quote a part of the text signed by Boris Tadic and Dragoljub Micunovic. They thought so at the time, that's their thing, it's published in the paper, and I don't see what the problem is to quote something that's written in the paper. I mean, it wasn't me, and we're not saying it, so now for revenge -- Zoran Djindjic wrote an indictment with these two against Vojislav Seselj, so we're going to talk about this or that now. No, we're just telling the facts, the truth, the published things, the fixed things. Was he the head of the tobacco mafia? He was, was he, whether Ruzica Djindjic and today, he was going to Popovac for the apanague - he was going, if all the citizens know it there - know whether he was at the top of the criminal privatisations - was he, whether Janjusevic was the head of his cabinet, the Kolesar secretary, what he was, whether he was doing it - he was working. Mr. Stanimirovic, again pinch, the Serbian radicals alive, healthy and for this pay phone, will be even more, and you, yesterday I told you, will be full of bruises from pinching, because you can't believe it, so you said, that this is 2007, and there are living Serbian radicals, and there are those in the assembly hall, behind the pay phone. There will be more of us, Mr. Stanimirovic, I'm sorry if you don't like it, you haven't been here all day, go, go on, sleep, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8915	According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Before the break, I wanted to talk about another topic, however, the basic subject that caused us all morning lost the minister of local self-government, or his presence here. I believe there's a turmoil in the DS, there's probably an election inside the DS, and now the tops of the DS are being positioned, and that's normal. I can see that a copy of him has run for office, probably for a court nut, but that's their problem now, not the SRS's problem. I demand the chairman, I demand the president of the National Assembly to ensure the presence of the minister here, because today we are talking about a law that he represents to the Serbian Radical Party and the other MPs here. Today we're talking about the law, today we're talking about amendments that he needs to adopt, or, if he's already rejecting them, to say why he refuses them. Today we are trying to create from what you call the law something that is applicable and which can at least benefit the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think this is how it was 20 days before that government went down, the passions just got in the way, the internal struggles were going, opposition was happening, and the government went away. According to Kostunica, however, they were a technical government. I was going to ask a parliamentary question today at the end of the Rules of Procedure, the one where I answered before the break. I was going to ask you, how much did you hire in the departments, agencies and other state-owned side appliances you've invented since you came to power? The only company that receives workers, employed by citizens, is the Serbian government, with its imaginary, not citizens, pardon, with its imaginary appliances. Of course, the only condition is that you're a member of DS, DSS, G 17 plus. I don't know where they're going to be called G 17 plus, because it's going to fall two, and again G 17 plus, it's going to be five, and it's going to be G17 plus again. As a MP, I ask that we be given a systematization of jobs, with full jobs in all ministries, because there are ministries where there are 50 and some ministerial assistants. Amazingly, in countries that are far stronger, far more economically powerful, far larger, so many employees are gone. The only company that works is the Serbian government, and everything else you've brought to the beggar stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8917	On the amendment, it is the People's MP Goran Rakovac, but he is not present. Also, about the Amendment and the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8918	Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which it needs to exercise the functions of the MP. I refer the question to Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic of Serbia. In the election campaign, he eventually promised Serbian citizens he would address the matter of the Bodrum affair. I remind you, it is the election theft when DS MPs Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vojislav Jankovic, abused the card, then the MP, Neda Arneric. Boris Tadic has pledged in the election campaign to remove from his environment everyone found to have participated in these criminal acts, and today, ladies and gentlemen, they are senior DS officials. The Bodrum affair isn't resolved. Boris Tadic and DS deceive Serbian citizens when they say the issue was resolved, because another card -- Natasha Milojevic, who was called a fellow MP, was the only abuse that was the case of the court dispute, and in the court dispute, DS MP Alen Selimovic was convicted. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind the public of Serbia, above all, that it is not a Bodrum affair, that the Bodrum affair remains unresolved, that it continues around Boris Tadic and, unfortunately, at the top of Serbia, Bojan Pajtic, and Dragan Sutanovac, the people who are directly responsible for the election theft, and the electoral theft is if someone steals the voice of the MP in the National Assembly. The change in election will is one of the most difficult crimes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, you used to slam into pots and pots to protect the electoral will of citizens and we always support, of course, not by banging in pots and pots, but by concrete parts, that the electoral will of the citizens is sacred, that no one should sin against it and ask Boris Tadic to answer this parliamentary question. Please, Mr. Chairman, let me just get some documentation, if no one else has reported to the Rules of Procedure, so I can get it, because I've already announced that I want to address Milan Markovic by my rules of procedure, so that we can follow the amendments later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8919	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not quote Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, because my esteemed colleague had quoted him before, but I also refer to Article 226. In my time, I asked "Socrates", while he was in the community of Serbia-Montenegro, to give me a notice, as a folk MP, how many passports were issued in the consular representations of Serbia-Montenegro abroad, i.e. in embassies around the world, and not to the Albanians, not to say, to the Shiptars. That's the answer I never got. The Serbia-Montenegro community no longer exists, and there is no answer. On this occasion, I will ask the Minister of Interior Mr Jocic, how much was issued to the Kosovo and Metohija passports during Goran Svilanovic, not only in Serbia-Montenegro, but worldwide, according to our consular representations? The second question -- for the Serbian Prime Minister, was there any controversy in the government, was there any session held in the government over Mr. Sutanovac's unsettled statements, as defence minister, that no soldiers, while he was the defence minister, would set foot on Cosmet? Gentlemen, that's a serious question. He encouraged the separatists. Vojislav Kostunica is silent. The question is whether he is being embellished by such a statement by Mr. Sutanovac or solidarity with him, is it the double policy of Vojislav Kostunica? I expect that Vojislav Kostunica will answer this question very quickly, so that we know how much politics is being implemented in the government in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. I have another constructive proposal. I believe that the people of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia do not deserve what is happening to them. I would ask the President of Parliament to consider establishing an independent commission at the state level. We have so many agencies, so I think it would be appropriate to set up an independent committee, which will be composed of doctors. I'm sorry, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8921	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure is the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8922	Mrs. Kolundjia, this looks like congregation work. Colundji's colleague asked me what this looked like along the way. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure say: The Messengers of the people are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Rule 113 of the same Rules of Procedure states - the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly shall apply to all other participants at the sitting, in addition to the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. It does not stand strictly, but it is understood that the MP, as well as all those in Article 113, must take care of the dignity of the National Assembly in each place. I don't know where you've been, Mr. Milan Markovic, all day. I assume you'll tell us. Or it took you all day to read and analyze the statement you gave for the "Justice" list, where you hurt the dignity of the National Assembly in the most harsh way. Here, ladies and gentlemen, what does Justice say at "Justice" Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and "against local self-government: "I don't know why they came out." It answers the question why the MPs of the SRS came out yesterday, when he started, or went out to explain some amendment. "I don't know why they came out," said Markovic, and added, "I stuck to the program, even before my presentation"... I don't know what program, probably television... '"and there was no debate, so the only thing left is that they paid me back for what I did two days ago when I left the hall during radical exposure. '"Imagine which demeaning and which embarrassing. Mr. Milan Markovic, I don't know if you're uncomfortable about this. Furthermore, Markovic stresses that he did so because the SRS did not adhere to the Rules of Procedure and the subject, but rather discussed other matters. The minister allows himself to tell the MPs what they will speak of from this place! This is invisible. This was not even the blackest time in Serbia, if the niggers existed since the DOS was in power, and hardly was. Next says Milan Markovic – "with it", listen to this, "I'm not the only one out of the O.R., but the rest of the DS have already left, as well as the DSS, LDP and other parties. Only members of the SRS stayed in the hall," the minister said. "We returned from the other side, well, in the SRS they explained - we gave them back what they did two days ago." That's right. But, Mr. Markovic, you made a lie. First of all, it's inadmissible to say that the rest of the DS went out. You're not here as a member of the DS, you're here as a minister. We know that you became a member of the DS, but here, Mr. Markovic, you can look worse than that corner, but here you are minister, in front of these MPs. Look, we haven't talked about the amendments all day until you've arrived, and that's how we're going to do 77 days, until you're here. Do whatever face you want, it doesn't matter to you. Well, you won't mind, be safe. So you lied, Mr. Markovic, that only the MPs of the SRS stayed here. There were SPS MPs, Mr Vladan Batic was also there. He actively participated in the debate, as did the other MPs. If it's a Democratic Party for you, it's your problem, Mr. Markovic. The Republika Srpska Assembly belongs to all citizens of Serbia, as Serbian citizens will. Today, there are the most Serbian radicals in this congregation, and soon there will be more of us than we are now. I don't know what corner you'll be looking at then, Mr. Markovic, because there's a grate on the door there, so there's no corners, unlike these here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8923	He has the word Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8924	Of course, there are people and words who don't deserve any comment. I prefer it because of my colleagues sitting here and for the public to say not that I didn't say this, but I didn't say anything about it to the SRS. So, for their message, if I'm saying anything, I'm asking for authorization. This, absolutely, I didn't say. That's probably what Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic write when they're at peace. When they're in a fight, they probably don't write anything. I don't know which one of them is doing Justice now, I don't know who to obey for the electoral law, which is being powered by a radical party, whether one who wants a direct choice of mayor, whether one who wants parliamentary elections. What can I tell you, it's a party note, and they're fighting with each other. I have nothing to say to everyone here, but, of course, I didn't say anything about it. Anything I say, I authorize. Perhaps the Faith of Radeta wrote, if she is in charge, although she is in charge of what a normal man, mostly, is puking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8925	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Slavko Jerkovic, then Vjerica Radeta, Milos Aligrudic, and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8926	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue under Article 226 and ask for a notice -- is the state of Serbia, or Boris Tadic, as president, or Vojislav Kostunica, on any basis engaged Goran Svilanovic to represent the interests of the Serbian state abroad? I ask both Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. A proposal that I have not just completed, it is a constructive proposal, it is more like Parliament's president and Vojislav Kostunica himself to think about it. I said Serbian citizens don't deserve what's happening to them. In order to avoid all this in some future elections, it would not be too much to educate an independent committee of doctors, who will have to pass any claim to high state functions, a medical board whose only obligation will be to establish what psychophysical abilities pretend to be high state functions. Of course, there is also a need for the two-stage commission, to allow for a lower state commission – a doctoral, and a higher medical commission. I'm telling you this because high-ranking state officials forget who chose them, how they came to power, they forget about the people, and they use power, abuse their official positions, just looking at personal interest. It is indeed high time to establish a medical commission, on a state-level basis, so that we do not have damage to the state of Serbia, the damage sustained by individual ministers, especially those engaged in foreign affairs. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8927	According to the Rules of Procedure, Verica Radeta, followed by Milos Aligrudic, and Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hear, along the way, that there's a sharp controversy about how someone allows us to use our right here from the Rules of Procedure. Nor does anyone permit us to do so, nor can anyone forbid us, only that you may be made clear. We will speak here as long as we think it is meaningful, first of all, until we convince Minister Milan Markovic to behave, because it is scandalous that today he will not be in Parliament, to present himself and show obvious signs of anxiety. I don't know how he went fishing at Boris Tadic's, it's his thing, but if he can't handle the congregation atmosphere, he could have had some Bensedin, I don't know what's already happening from those sedatives, and to calm down a little bit, to sort it out. This gentleman, who appears from below, can no longer be helped by any sedative, in any amount, by God, who gave up his hands, but Mr Milan Markovic just tried to be very bold and, in fact, managed to be both impertinent and rude and thinks that he is now very important. For information to Mr Milan Markovic, most Serbian citizens know this, the SRS newspaper is "Greater Serbia" and we are very proud of these newspapers, absolutely, the best in Serbia today. "Justice" daily, I'm sorry you don't like that you're making a statement about "Justice," and after you deny it, you say you didn't make a statement. Indeed, let Milan Markovic see this with the one he made a statement to. Maybe that's why he got his fingers off Boris Tadic, because he made a statement about "Justice," but I really believe what it says in "Justice." If it stands under quotes -- said Milan Markovic, then it is true that he said it, but his behavior here today is inadmissible, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chairman, again, I remind you of Article 104 and Article 113 that the minister must behave and respect this Rules of Procedure as well as any MP, and I ask you to take a vote on whether an injured article 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure with Milan Markovic's previous exposure. He can at some rally of his party and in a public place say what he just said here. The fact that he came from some meeting where the Democrats were said to have fought, it's really not our problem, and thank you for asking, the SRS is, as always, unique, no wings, Mr Milan Markovic in our party. You see with the part of your party, which Chad has already taken away from you, who he will take over from you, but that is not the problem of the SRS, believe me, neither is the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8929	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8930	In accordance with Article 104. So, I'd really like to appeal if we could get back to agenda, agenda law and amendments. You see, we can bring things up here now, and that's where we put the point, anyone who wanted to, could say, and we could go back to the law. I also accept that the minister should, in principle, be present in the hall all the time when he defends the law, his presence in that part makes sense, and I understand fully when the opposition MPs object. So I have an understanding of that. However, strictly in a formal sense, his presence is not mandatory. That, if we want to interpret it, is not about whose minister it is, whether it belongs to the DSS, DS etc., I would say the same thing, I swear to you, if it were the minister of the DSS. So it doesn't make any difference. It's an accident. It's the minister who belongs to the DS now. I also have no understanding that if someone, if there is no important reason, is not in the O.R., but we are not going in, at all, to his reasons, we are only talking about presence and on this basis we are drawing the conclusion that it is our legitimate right not to allow MPs to discuss the law and amendments that have been submitted to this National Assembly, just because the minister is not present. Believe me, that formal reason isn't. That it is essential, in some sense, and that you have the right to object, I admit and accept it, but that can't be the reason why we don't discuss it at all, because in the end, it doesn't decide the minister of the amendment that has been filed, it decides the National Assembly. The most important thing here is to face opinions on the amendment, and we have a written report from the government on whether the amendment accepts or does not accept. Should the assembly agree on arguments in favour of amendments that the minister did not accept earlier, a team up by ministry, by ministers and by government. So, I don't understand what, in fact, the opposition MPs want to make us more correct and more appropriate?- I'm sorry. Well, if we're wrong, I guess you should enjoy it, you shouldn't worry about it. I really can't understand that. Why don't we discuss an amendment that's on the agenda? I really ask you and I urge you to go back to the amendment debate, to finish the draft law on the agenda, because it's the only way this assembly works. The debate about who it was when it came out, which is why, who told whom, it's all politically attractive and interesting. And I would come back here, too, on the subject of what it meant to be the coming out of the ruling coalition, which is extremely unusual, we all admit it, when you see it at first sight, that day, but I'm not going back to that topic, because it would open up a new topic, an explanation of what it was about, who was chairing it, etc. That's irrelevant at this point. So, I really ask you, if we can, to get the strength to get back on the agenda. Obviously, the minister is present, not in the O.R. right now, he's back, he's gonna be here, which is more than obvious, so come on, please, let's get back to the agenda, discuss the law, discuss the amendments, and that goes to some of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8931	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't go out to talk about Milan Markovic, I'll say something else. I went out to thank a large group of people, but first to say that the minister is known as the incident figure. First of all, it's a person who only identifies himself with the Democratic Party. I would have understood, indeed, that he was talking about a man who, as until yesterday, was not the vice president of the Assembly, but since he was our colleague and, at that time, a foreign opposition, when your party was in power, I remember very well that from this place where I am sitting now, or where Mr. Mrkonjic is sitting, he repeatedly insisted that Minister Dinkic, Parivodić, Bubalo and all those who proposed the law at the time that Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister of the previous government, and Markovic, I say, your opposition, be present, did not leave the assembly speaker alone. A nonstop came out, insisted that the minister be there, asked for an interruption of the session, called for a member of the Rules of Procedure. Now you see how immature he is to that function. I knew it, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as I saw that night that he, as an MP, was voting for himself to be a minister, I knew he would remain in the role of the MP. He, with the consciousness of the minister, men, cannot live. He is also an MP, and as a party official, some there, went to briefing with Tadic, or already at a party, if it was made by Krstic and Saper, he is a leprosy, like Tadic lost, along with Markovic and others. Therefore, do not warn us, but tell the Minister to behave politely, to return here and call on his mind. I went out to thank the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Todorovic will help me if I don't say the correct number, and it's impossible to say it at this point, because every hour, from hour to hour, that number changes. More than 600,000 Serbian citizens have so far signed a petition, a request to transfer directly to the SRS president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who is expected to begin on November 7th. Today I want to say thank you, first of all, to those people, there were over 7,000 of them last night, in a crowded 'Pionir' hall, when a basketball club called 'Partizan' was playing with the Barcelona Club, because of the fact that hundreds or, as far as I'm concerned, even over a thousand 'Partisan' fans signed a petition to transfer the trial to our president. They did the same thing, I believe they will do tonight, and the Star fans, as well as Vojvodina, of Belgrade, Kragujevac's Radnik, Rada, and all over Serbia, and that through such resistance, above all, the sharpest brander of this regime, because they are scandalning against Tadic, against Kostunica, against Jocic, who until today has not defined how they can bring flags and banners. I want to thank them, and I believe that this figure is nowhere near final, that it will even be duplicated and that we will be together, and there are from all structures, and young people, and from cheerleading movements, and intellectuals, university professors, farmers, pensioners, unemployed, people who, even, are different political options, but above all, are Serbian radicals and Serbian patriots, to support such a struggle by Professor Seselj and that, upon his return, Serbia will go a much better way, and many of you will have blood to follow in the veins the moment he enters this assembly door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8933	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for article 194. - representing the government in the National Assembly. In the first position, it is said - the right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly when considering all issues under its jurisdiction has the Prime Minister. The government determines members representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. Therefore, Mr. Aligrudic, and formally and essentially, the minister appointed by the government would have to sit here. Also, Mr. Aligrudic, this is where he should sit, preferably, both the Prime Minister and the other members of the government. Take a look at the sessions and pictures of the sessions by 2000. You will see that there was no session of the National Assembly without two-thirds of the government sitting in benches in the first two rows. That, Mr. Aligrudic, was the government's relationship with its ministers towards the Serbian Parliament and MPs, a single dose of respect. Unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to see, when it comes to Minister Milan Markovic, his understanding of the Parliament's respect and MPs. Milan Markovic, leaving the hall when the session's lead took over from Natasa Jovanovic, a member of the SRS, fully derailed the assembly. He, as minister, identified himself with a portion of the Assembly that, in protest, came out of the hall. His was to stay in the O.R., to finish the job the government gave him as well as today. You see, who knows which way we come up with a major problem. The problem here is to point to thieving. The problem here is to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The problem here is to show disrespect for the congregation. The guilty are those who point to it, not those who break and abuse it all the time. Mr. Aligrudic, the SRS only wants one thing, to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We want the authorities of Serbia from the Assembly, the president of the assembly, the Prime Minister, the Belgrade City Assembly to work in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure that they have received. Unfortunately, you don't do that. That's what we're telling you, and you're accusing us of obstructing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8935	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8936	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, between the two world wars, there was one minister in one of those numerous governments, who had nothing else to write in his biography, but told Politics that he had been dealing with political and economic issues since his earliest childhood. I think that includes Mr Milan Markovic. So far, we have been able to make sure, in a large number of cases, that it is a minister who has little to do with the resolution on which he is headed, that his right is not a stronger side, and that the interpretation and application of constitutional and legal norms does not go well. But that's not the point of the problem. The main issue is that Mr Milan Markovic, whenever he is gracious to come to the National Assembly Hall, insults the MPs, and that, above all, the MPs of the SRS. If you could see, in his earlier presentation, Mr. Milan Markovic turned exclusively towards the part of the hall where DS MPs sat and said - these are my colleagues, and he looked in that direction all the time. Now I'm asking him - what about this part of the O.R. Parliament sitting around? Do they represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Who sent them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to Mr. Milan Markovic's extremely unworthy conduct and insults the dignity of the National Assembly. I personally became convinced, when I was speaking in my own time about certain bill proposals, that Mr. Milan Markovic, while the MPs are discussing, was sending messages via his mobile phone, laughing, throwing, talking around with his DS colleagues and not following him at all. Since a man's pretty bad at dealing with laws, it would be better if he had less talk and less texting, and in return to listen to what the MPs of the SRS are saying, he could learn something. Among other things, he could learn that at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly since 8 October 2007, the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of the Belgrade City Assembly, could find out that in a large number of municipalities in Serbia today DS is trying to take over power from the SRS, he could find out that the party activists of DS on the ground, across Serbia, especially through Vojvodina, today are trying to buy foreign currency from DS committees, and that there has to be any honesty, that man, by law, would have to stop all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8937	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8938	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, all afternoon we listened to the migration and whine - why there is no minister, where the minister is, just to get the minister, so they'll tell him anything. And, came one of the best ministers in this government, the local self-government minister, Mr. Milan Markovic... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Which member? )......................................................................................................... Article 104, thank you, Mr. Krassic, for reminding me, I'm very pleased. He came here to hear that Veronica Radeta was going to read "Political Funer," then we take and read "Justice," she also prepared "Mickey's Funer," "Alan Ford." He knows Mr. Milan Markovic himself to read the newspaper, he also knows Serbian citizens to read the newspaper and he knows very well what Mr. Milan Markovic said about your party vote and what he did not say. You had a chance to go into a normal debate about the amendments. Obviously, it's not your intention and it's not your wish. Your legitimate right, as an opposition, is to try to obstruct Parliament, and that is a well-known model of political struggle, but it is also the legitimate right of us out of the majority to ask you to give you a warning. I remind Mr. Chairman again that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has requested that under Article 106. You shall give the Rules of Procedure a warning to Ms Verica Radeta, because the Rules of Procedure and the rudely offended and DS and President Zoran Djindjic have been cruelly violated here. On the other hand, Mrs. Radeta, if you can't talk me out of it, you can certainly keep me quiet, that's not hard at all, believe me. I expect us to continue our normal work. The minister's here. I hope you've read all the Mickey partyers you brought from home. As soon as you end this debate, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milan Markovic, who was in the previous Parliament meeting, the MP and well knows the Rules of Procedure, will come. I don't have to defend him. He's being defended by the results of his work. I'm here with a strange sentence -- when Mr. Vojislav Seselj returns from The Hague, many will freeze blood in the veins. I was scared alive, but not for myself, but for my city. Whenever Vojislav Seselj is active in politics, the columns of refugees go somewhere, so know, the citizens of Kruševac, now it looks like we're up to it. They ended up with Kosovo during the past term and are now piling up some new territory, Kraljevo, Kruševac, Cačak, they don't care where refugees start from. It is important that the "Greater Serbia" bulletin is being issued neatly, and during their rule Serbia is becoming smaller and smaller. I am seriously concerned about Serbian citizens, if the SRS would ever get a chance to deal with serious politics. Of course, that will never happen, because Serbian citizens want to go to Europe, not to go to refugee columns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8939	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Vladan Batic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8940	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Article 226. Yesterday, I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resorship Ministry and the Republic Broadcasting Agency to determine according to a show that was broadcast at the Public Service on the day before last, in prime time, on RTS, looking for answers to questions that completely compromise both public service and media freedom, while afirming crime and criminals. Instead of answering, today in some newspaper with me, he's trying to run a polemic journalist in an attempt that I haven't even thought about. I don't cheat with the performers of the dirtiest works by Alexander Tijanic. Why is this journalist trying to drive me crazy? Because I asked to explain how it is possible for a man who is a member of the largest criminal clan in Croatia to perform in the prime term of the Public Service. I didn't make that up. You can take a look at the sites, and that's the site "Young People Against Drugs", the Croatian site, where it's about the criminal record of Ivo Pukanic. You can look at the website B.A.B.E. - be active, be emancipated, where there is talk of domestic violence, which makes the same man. Even that doesn't matter, it's what he said on the RTS program, the RTS viewers, the subscribers. Ivo Pukanic said the following, please, gentlemen of the radicals, and you will find that this is illegal, the man says on the RTS programme, Ivo Pukanic: "You are dealing with some things that Europe has long been through. We're 400km away from you, but believe me, it's like we're four thousand miles away from Serbia. I think Serbia should stop dealing with some things and face reality and the future." Then Ivo Pukanic continues: "There is no political background in the murder of Zoran Djindjic and that this is not about political murder, but that there is a mob attack behind it." Then Ivo Pukanic says, "If it wasn't for Gotovina, it would probably still be a war in these areas, and I tell you, if it hadn't been for Gotovina, you'd still have Milosevic in Belgrade." So that's what all of Serbia's taxpayers are told by a man, insulting Serbia and Serbia, insulting the late prime minister, glorifying Ante Gotovina. Everybody's quiet. So I think we should get an answer on behalf of all citizens watching RTS as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8941	Thank you. In accordance with Article 98. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 15-minute break. I'm calling on the heads of Parliament to consult. Thank you. [[After break – 17.05]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8943	I would like to inform Members of the Assembly what is, in some ways, the result of this agreement that was held by party representatives with the chairman. I don't want to get into it, which is why this congregation is coming into the situation it's going to be, because it would probably produce a new wave of outposts in the Rules of Procedure and things wouldn't be solved. There's obviously a certain problem. We don't feel like it's our fault or that we're the reason the situation is. Among other things, we believe that this should, first of all, be resolved in a different way. It should be appreciated, to find a modus, to try to get out of situations like this in which, inevitably, not out of intent, but through circumstances, we come. We have to sit together and make a deal. We will try, in accordance with the agenda, to complete this item of the agenda, but we cannot promise you, if the occasion comes, that we will go beyond that and that we will leave the possibility of responding in the way that we think is appropriate at that point. I repeat, it is not a problem in the Serbian Parliament, neither in MPs nor in opposition MPs. The problem is, right now, our country's relations. I don't want to say what the reasons are right now, so it doesn't cause a new avalanche, but obviously, some things have to be solved. Both we and the citizens of Serbia must know what is essentially happening. I think we will then have a much simpler opportunity to work in Parliament in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8944	On the amendment, it is a colleague Branislav Nedimovic, then Verica Radeta, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8945	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, finally return to the debate on the amendments. In front of us is an amendment submitted by counterpart Rajko Baralic. To be honest, it's been so long since counterpart Rajko Baralic talked about his amendment and the reasons why he should vote for the amendment, that I no longer remember what the man said. We'll take a stenogram, as colleagues would say. I absolutely support my SPS colleagues who have made a significant commitment to work on amendments to amendments and additions to the Government Act. The fruit of their work is also a few adopted amendments by the government of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment to Article 12, which says that the title above article 40 is deleted and Article 40 is amended and read, says: "The relations of the President of the Republic and of the Government are based on co-operation and on the rights and duties laid down by the Constitution, by law and other general acts". counterpart Rajko Baralic suggested that the word "based" be deleted from the part that says "in co-operation". So here, in some ways, this co-operation is being disputed between the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, but I would briefly quote to you members 111 and 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia", and as regards jurisdiction, in Article 112, says: "The President of the Republic: represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad; he declares the laws, in accordance with the Constitution; he proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for the President of the Government, after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the elected electoral lists; he proposes to the National Assembly of Functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law; he sets up and recalls the order of the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of a proposal from the Government; he receives letters of accreditation and appeal from foreign diplomatic representatives; he gives pardons", etc. In addition, Articles 122 and 123 have provided definitions of the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its jurisdiction. Article 122 states that the Government is the institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, and the government's powers are to determine and conduct politics, enforce laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, adopt regulations and other general acts to enforce the law, propose to the National Assembly laws and other general acts, etc. Simply, if this provision was deleted, which is foreseen by the amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic, that there is no co-operation between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, then I do not know how this relationship between the two parts of the executive government would work in the first place, because it should function in co-operation. I think that's the basic point, that all state authorities need to establish co-operation between themselves. It is defined by the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The new constitution of the Republic of Serbia in a completely different way defines the matter of relations between the President of the Republic and the Government. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act, this is regulated differently from the Government Act. Under the new constitution, the state of emergency no longer introduces the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Government, section 83. The 1990 constitution is already being done by the National Assembly, together with the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister, if the National Assembly is unable to meet. So, in general, a new relationship is being established between these most important state institutions and executive authorities and the DSS Parliamentary Group believes they should remain those specifics that stand in the amendment and addition of the Government Act, and that this amendment tabled by counterpart Rajko Baralic should not be accepted. I simply support the government's position, which also believes that this amendment should not be accepted, so I urge you not to accept this amendment in the day to vote, unless, perhaps, colleague Rajko Baralic further elaborates what is the essence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8946	The word is made by MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I thought that, based on the consultation, you gave up the discussion, you were at the consultation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8947	If Mr Todorovic, or the Serbian Radical Party, agreed at consultations to stop discussing the Rules of Procedure, it does not oblige the LDP. We're still talking about the Rules of Procedure. The member I contacted is a member of 225. I would like to inform Parliament that we, the LDP presidency, had a meeting last night where we made some important decisions and today, in the form of a statement, we sent it to the media, who have made it public. In this presidency, we have decided that we will participate in the presidential elections, we have made a decision on the candidate proposal, which we will present to our main committee. It will be, for the public, our president, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. The reason I came out to talk is that today at the Public Service nowhere, in any small text, we couldn't see this press release. So it's the same public service that has no problem playing the 48-hour wedding show, in which in the most open and embarrassing way, violence against women is promoted, but when LDP decides to participate in the elections and who will be the candidate, it is not published. It is very important to us that the public be informed, for the simple reason that we consider these parliamentary elections a chance to promote the different policy, the policy that citizens need, because Serbia is at this point, and this is what we see today in this Parliament, we need a new agreement with the citizens, so that we can finally make up for everything that we have dropped this year. Today I spoke of it, a single law has been sent by the government to this Parliament for a year of Parliament's work. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are inefficient and that is why the LDP, apart from the president's, is looking for all other elections, therefore, and those you are obliged to sign under the Constitutional Law, which means the province and local, but also parliamentary ones. Your deadlines expire, the deadlines prescribed by the Constitutional Law, and you still have no answers to any important questions. The LDP has made an important decision to participate in these elections so that we do not have a ladry from the presidential elections, i.e. two candidates, Vojislav Kostunica, or three, if Velja Ilic is defined as taking part in this race. The LDP is ready to shake up civil Serbia and offer what it needs right now, which is an alternative. You're all afraid of it, that's obvious, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8948	The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. A short while ago, counterpart Aligrudic somehow tried to deceive the public. We cannot, Mr. Aligrudic, behave in this assembly as if everything around us is flowers and trees, as if Serbia were to Tokyo, as if there were peace everywhere in the world and we were just talking about amendments, or what you, as the parliamentary majority, would like to talk about, that, in your opinion, things would go their own way. A moment ago, my colleague said the reason why she called us, Mr. Aligrudic, is that this is the only place we can turn, because the public service you control is not releasing information. When I say you, I didn't mean you personally, I meant a party of which you are a member, or head of a parliamentary group, as well as others. This public service favors a policy that has made this society the most unhappy society, with the most lagging technology, with the most underdeveloped economy, with the worst health care, with the destroyed school system, and there is no room for one policy that represents the future of this country. You at that public service are giving space to those who really opened the door on March 12th, the other day, and you're still letting the Director of the Public Service deal with all those who criticize your policy. This is extremely incorrect, not only for the LDP Parliamentary Group, or LDP members, but also for the citizens who voted for us, and also for the other citizens, I can say that. The Director of Public Service uses his service, or service to all of us, all citizens, above all, to deal with politics. We just had a meeting upstairs, or you had a meeting upstairs, but apparently you continued consultations after that. Mr. Aligrudich, when you get out here, you'll certainly tell me what you have. I've never thrown it to you before, nor will I throw it to you. Anyway, the essence of the story that we've come up with is-- when we can't get a space at the Public Service, which belongs to all the citizens of this country, we have to use the opportunity to speak from a congregation pay phone, because it's the only opportunity for citizens to hear the truth in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8950	The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8951	Article 104. You can't make people listen to you. People will listen to you if they find it interesting, and if they don't find it interesting, there's no way to force them, any of us. It's another thing. What we care about is what your little party has decided, some important decision for your microcosm has made, whether or not they will participate in some presidential elections, which are not even scheduled, by the way. That's your problem. You have the right to inform the public about this, but what I have been saying here all day, or I haven't been here all day, but I once went out, but my MPs have said it, is that you can't do Article 226. The Rules of Procedure are used to inform citizens at the National Assembly session that you intend to run for office, and you will not tell us who, for the president of Serbia, regardless of which elections have not yet been called. Who cares? So I answered because it's true that we've all talked together in room number one on the first floor, trying to reach an agreement on further work today. You didn't say you wouldn't honor it. We went out, we said we'd keep working, you nodded on it, and this is a surprise for us. I just can't believe what you guys are doing. Can you concentrate so much that these 45 last minutes we use to discuss the remaining one or two amendments to this law that we have and to lead this discussion in a human way, to say something about or against that amendment, if we have. I'm not defending you, I'm not defending anyone, I'm not defending anyone to express their position, to call any member of the Rules of Procedure, but this was about one appeal we talked about amongst each other. It's just amazing how you step on it, how it doesn't matter to you at all. That's what I find interesting. Then you tell us who you want, but you won't tell us who you're running for the presidential election, which isn't even scheduled yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8952	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, obviously I didn't attend the same consultations, Mr. Aligrudic, which you attended, because I don't know what was agreed and I don't know who nodded his head, which you just said, which is what you're confusing the public and telling the lie. The thing that's much more important than all that, Mr. Aligrudic, is that LDP is not small and insignificant, but LDP, when all of your "Palma" "New Serbia" and everyone else is far ahead of you. You are no longer the third in Serbia, the third is the LDP, and that is what hurts you, that is what bothers you, that citizens recognize a policy that offers concrete solutions, a policy that, in the very near future, will be opportunities when parliamentary elections, the first parliamentary elections, with some more in this hall, will make a real pro-European government and a pro-European majority. There won't be room for your party, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8954	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, that Mr Aligrudic listened carefully to what I was saying, Article 225 is a notice to the Serbian Parliament MPs, that Mr Aligrudic listened to what his colleagues were saying from this pay phone, he would hear very well who the LDP candidate for Serbia's president is whenever the presidential elections are called. Here we go again, I can see that he's not listening to me, but, look, you might now hear -- it'll be Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I see you're upset - rightly so. As far as RTS is concerned, RTS has an obligation to transfer such important information as a public service, as a service to all citizens. The LDP, however you experience it, and I can see that you have fear and porch of us, and you have reasons, is a parliamentary party and as such must be present at the Public Service, in terms of reporting on what the LDP is doing. What I have to notice is that there is no LDP at the Public Service, except when you need to take advantage of an opportunity to discredit us, insult us, and minorize us, but that is your problem, the citizens of Serbia see very clearly what LDP is. This very parliament is where we fought for such a position. Even in Milosevic's time, things like this didn't happen. And then the parliamentary parties were sacred. And then it went to a press conference, reports were written, and the political struggle was more fair than it is right now. That would be about it. I see you're ready to answer and I look forward to it very much. Once again, for those who are not clear, the LDP is happy to go to the presidential elections, but is looking for all other elections, and above all parliamentary, because the situation in this parliament today is proof that, unfortunately, Serbia has a very incompetent government, a government that is unable to meet the needs of citizens living in misery, in isolation. I have the impression that the only motive for the constitution of this government and for its survival was, in fact, that division of public enterprises and the power that it gained at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8956	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, then counterpart Zoran Nikolic, then Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8957	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. Mr. Minister, I am about to take advantage of your presence, because what is happening in Parliament in recent days is clearly becoming a trend. I request an explanation and notice, in accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, from the President of Parliament and from the Government regarding this trend. Trends of such polemics are caused by the announcement of the upcoming elections. It is normal that Parliament cannot function in the pre-election atmosphere. So this is in some way an insult, not only to the MPs, but also to the citizens of Serbia, to the taxpayers. So there are questions and obviously there are different explanations. Some of you, distinguished colleagues, have said there must be elections before New Year's Eve, and now they can do it after New Year's Eve. There is no choice unless the Constitutional Law is amended, and now the Constitutional Law does not have to be amended. There is no choice until all those laws that need to be preceded by amendments to the electoral laws are passed, and now can be passed by old, or existing laws. Then this is how the public reacts. The pre-election campaign for some undefined elections has practically already begun. When some vague pre-election campaign began, because it is not known when, whether or not the elections will be, in that period and at that time, there will be no normal work of Parliament. Gentlemen who chair the Parliament and the gentlemen of the ministers, you are in as short a time as possible, to normalise the parliamentary life of Serbia, to announce to the public whether there will be a choice, when, by which laws, or by which there will be no choice. This is a distraction, this is a waste of time, this is totally amazing. This is what the virtual parliament has become. I've asked countless times, and I've had enough of it myself, when it will be to bring these fundamental, structural, priority laws, not to play parliament. Like, ambush Parliament every day, like, doing something, like, making some laws. Okay, we're gonna need all of this, but we need something much sooner than this. I have asked a number of questions to the President of Parliament about the Constitutional Court, not to repeat, etc., etc. New Year's coming, there's no way your laws will be passed. I also asked the President of Parliament to put on the agenda a national initiative organised by the DHSS to amend the Law on Broadcasting, which would abolish the TV subscription, because TV subscription should exist for public service, not for public service. There's no subscription there. So, I'm sorry, but it must not be allowed for members of the Croatian underworld, through this programme, to insult Serbia and Serbia, and then to come out of the 'watchman', who plays the journalist, and to give someone lessons. We need to be clear about these basics, in the interests of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8958	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 225. I'm asking the Rules of Procedure for a notice about what elections you're talking about? Has anyone here called the election? Are there agreements within the ruling coalition on calling elections? In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you have greatly reduced, it is now so miniature, and it will be much smaller, and it has been issued by the 'Official Messenger', it is not issued by anyone private, and you have bigger and therefore you are constantly rebelling against the government (although you are from the ruling coalition, you are right), in the preamble of the Constitution says that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija, in all internal and foreign political obligations. That's before we move on to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I want you to give us a notice on whether the political activity of the Serbian government and the Serbian president after December 10th is the highlight of when it is announced that we will discuss the finalisation of the status, the future status of our southern province, the fight for the second round of presidential elections, to be held on December 23rd? Mr. Minister, elections for the President of the Republic will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly by 31.12.2007 at the latest within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last of the laws governing the position and election for the President of the Republic, defence and the Serbian Army, foreign affairs and security services. Where are your laws, Mr. Minister? Where are the laws we need to adopt to call the election? Or are you going to call the election according to the old laws? Or will you call the election without passing any laws? Elections for MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly will be discussed by 31.12.2007 at the latest within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law governing the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Where's your law, Mr. Minister? Elections for committees will be discussed by 31.12 and no later than 60 days from the date of entry into force of the last of the laws governing the territorial organisation of the Republic, local self-government, local elections and the position of the capital. Are you aware of the position you're putting Serbia in at the moment? While the whole world is thinking about what will be 10.12, while Russia says it will recognise Ossetia, Abkhazia, if Kosovo and Metohija are unilaterally recognised, we are speaking in parallel of not sending the army to Kosovo and we are speaking in parallel of continuing to advocate a single BiH, and we will not unilaterally recognise the independence of Republika Srpska. The most important thing is that we, in any case, discuss the presidential elections, unrelated to everything else and to what it says in the preamble to the Constitution. So, Mr. Minister, inform this assembly of what kind of elections are being held here and whether there is a constitutional basis for calling these elections, other than the political force you have in your image as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't be sure, this country needs parliamentary elections and local elections the most, and parliamentary elections can be held without any law. So when you're calling the election, call the election for all the authorities. So when you talk about joy or grief, as you do at the moment, I don't think Serbian citizens can believe what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is discussing at this point, while the whole world is discussing how Kosovo and Metohija will end. After all, you are required by declaration, or resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was reading the Constitution and I didn't ask you to take away the time I spent quoting it, but I think you know what this is about. You here want to outwit each other within the ruling coalition, to the harm of the people and citizens of Serbia, above all, to the harm of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8960	On the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. The remaining time of the SRS Parliamentary Group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8961	Mr. Judjevich, I think someone picked up the office, check it out, they don't call me back, because it's eight hours waiting, so if I wait eight hours, I can do that three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8962	All right, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Šormaz, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8963	What now? Here, like this. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to be clear, given that my distinguished colleague Ivica Dacic said that they are not obliged Serbian citizens to suffer what is happening within the ruling coalition, or what we are doing, and in the coalition there are three parties, or four, I apologize, three lists and four parties, I would like to speak more specifically about the topic you have spoken about. The DSS position on this issue is very clear. No election should be held before 10. 12, and that's our official position, a clear attitude. In that time, we can fulfill all of this that you've been talking about, so we can write all the necessary laws, adopt what the Constitutional Law requires of us. We can make all of this, but 60 days, I agree with you, I would just point out that, 60 days is a deadline for calling the election after all the necessary laws are passed, not for maintenance, but for calling, and the law can also predict the necessary election campaign, or the duration of the election campaign, so it's not a rush. I spent the whole day across the street in the Federal Assembly, because that's where the Rose Ruth seminar is being held. There are also some things being said that are in favour of the state of Serbia, and just before was the speech of an independent analyst who is absolutely jeopardising the positions of the Serbian state. We must have political, state and national unity on Kosovo and Metohija, and any elections at this time would violate it. That is why we need to be unique and to be patient by 10.12., to do what this assembly has decided, what the state and the people expect us to do, which is to defend the territorial integrity of the Serbian state and to defend the status of Kosovo and Metohija. All those who seek otherwise, in my opinion, are inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8964	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8965	I'm sorry. I just want to explain in two or three sentences what I was talking about, and what Mr. Shormaz was reacting to. Of course, at this point, every party in the ruling coalition has an opinion on this issue, but I don't know if you're aware of a situation that could happen in December. So, if DS and G17 plus hold elections without DSS and New Serbia's consent, it is obvious that there is no longer a ruling coalition and that Serbia will resign on December 10th, i.e. that elections would be called, I guess, Boris Tadic should resign. In that case, Serbia is awaiting elections, awaiting December 10th without the president of the Republic, with a government that has lost most and has fallen, with a parliament that has been disbanded. Do you want Serbia to be, at a time when Kosovo and Metohija status are resolved, without institutions? That's why I'm talking about what you're talking about and negotiating. Then, at least, talk about it openly and publicly. Anyway, don't worry about what the opposition says. I'd like to ask you from the DS to deal with your closest political partners from the DSS, New Serbia and G17 plus. Don't worry about what radicals and SPS think about you, or what you think about us, our sympathy and antipathies are mutual. But we are not only here to satisfy our party interests, but we are, first of all, here because the people have chosen us and that in the preamble of this constitution there is an obligation for all state institutions to do everything they can in those moments to protect both Kosovo and Metohija. Who's gonna do it? Or does it all work out - that there's no one to do it when it's hard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8966	Thank you. Finally, MP Zoran Krasic is talking about the amendment. He's using the time left for the SRS MP's six-minute group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8967	I'm looking at everything, Mr. Dwarf, so that someone doesn't raise their hand again. Of course, it is on the agenda of Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12 submitted by Mr Rajko Baralic, which was spoken of this morning. I must thank all the MPs who participated in the debate today, because they best explained Mr Baralic's amendment. All the statements that were here today according to the Rules of Procedure, the replicas, have shown, essentially, what it means if relations between the two state authorities -- one that is too personalised, and it is called the President of the Republic, and the other one that is too politicised, and it is called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are being regulated in the way that the legislator suggested it, which is the principle of co-operation. Here, you saw what this cooperation looks like today. When something is introduced into an appropriate legal norm, it is usually taken into account that these words that are entered and which are meant to mean the rule of conduct can be similar in case such behaviour does not happen, that it is sanctioned in some way. Now you tell me what's the penalty for non-cooperation? A sanctions for non-cooperation, in your opinion, would be total chaos. Of course, relations between the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Assembly and all other state bodies, above all, are regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, when some members are inserted into the Government Act and the law is prescribed in what relationship the Government will be with the President of the Republic, it can be said that this member is not the place in the law. Perhaps, according to some hierarchy, it should be written in some special law on the President of the Republic, because it is formally at the head of the executive authority. When you say someone has to cooperate, it basically means nothing. What's the penalty if you don't cooperate? What kind of cooperation could that be? Here, we have an example today. Today, co-operation was constantly discussed between the president of the Republic and the government of the Republic of Serbia and what kind of co-operation - one in a wedge, the other in a record. That, formally-legal, can be placed in what the government wrote. They cooperate, but how? Where's the quality of that cooperation? He's gone. However, today the situation is too specific and I'd like to relax some of those who are very afraid. That relationship is a political dad, a political son. In the jargon, some say, "Blowers from the Desert River," but for the record, it's a good orchestra, they're good trumpeters. They're blowing in the same pumpkin, boss is the same. If that is the situation, then the authentic text of this member should read - they are obliged to cooperate on the order of Javier Solana. That would be too specific an individual standard, very precise and accurate. Carla del Ponte also came to them today, and today she'll have a lower staff, and tomorrow the main players will receive Mrs. Carla del Ponte. Of course, she's going to do her movie "Carlene List" again and show them in the right light, as she did in 2005. You haven't had a chance to watch that documentary, an extremely educational film, from which you can see -- who sets up the defence minister, how you talk, how it's celebrated on the plane, etc. So writing down that two state authorities are supposed to cooperate doesn't mean anything. Legally and theoretically, it is possible that in some provision, as regards jurisdiction, two state authorities point to the same jurisdiction, but then they adopt so-called ‘the law’. a complex administrative act. This isn't the situation. This is a situation where we are in the field of politics, and that is why this word "co-operation" is being inserted. I must draw your attention, first of all, to those who, on behalf of the SPS, write these amendments, that there is one big mistake here. You should've wiped out that "I." Because if this amendment of yours were to be adopted, as far as I'm concerned, the best thing to do is to delete this whole member, because it doesn't really mean anything at all, then it would be like this - relations between the President of the Republic and the Government are based on both the rights and duties laid down by the Constitution, by law and other acts. This "i" tells us that the Constitution and the law and the rights and obligations under the Constitution and the law are something secondary, and that it is primarily something that is not in the law. You know that's not a serious remark. The amendment should be adopted, it will be with a limited fact, because what is humping cannot be corrected by the amendment. Why is it humped? Because the democratic bloc is looking for such laws in which nothing will be clear, absolutely nothing will be clear. This is just another one in a series of examples, in these few days, where we have shown you that in the laws that you are proposing systemically installing destruction. It is the biggest threat to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It's a destruction that there is no one to correct - there is no Constitutional Court, and as those in power interpret the regulations, believe us, our happiness is that we are still alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8968	The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8969	Mr. Rajko Baralić is not present, but we all know what this is about, so I will be free to say a few more words about the proposed amendment and what the essence is, and what is the form. Zoran Krasic noticed it, and it is true that the "and" is too high in this sentence. If that's a distraction, fine. But here's the whole point of something else. The point here is that the DSS gentleman, when he explained why the amendment should not be accepted, essentially, supported the amendment, because he explained why it should be accepted. The bottom line is that the Constitution has made it very clear exactly what the obligations and responsibilities of the President of the Republic are, what are the responsibilities of the National Assembly, what are the responsibilities of the Government, or the Prime Minister. Everything else is too high. The best functioning will be the institutions of the President of the Republic, of the Government, of the Assembly if they work strictly in the work assigned to them by the Constitution. You have a situation like this in that article. 12 and 13. Let's say, the explanation that was given to amend and supplement that law, in fact, says it could have found places in the law. It explains that the state of emergency no longer introduces the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, so it is deleted, okay. But, let's say, the President of the Republic, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, if the National Assembly is unable to meet, together they are introducing a state of emergency in Serbia. There, one of the contents of that member if you wanted to. Then, too, it stands in reason -- the President of the Republic no longer delivers acts during the state of emergency, but does so by the Government, by a regulation, with the signing of the President of the Republic. There, and that norm could have found a place in this law, if necessary, but, folks, you don't have to. We have had the opportunity to hear in these two or three days that the Constitution has regulated this matter much more precisely when it comes to government than this law amending and supplementing the Government Act. Whenever they say co-operation, then it comes down to having the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic sit down, as party leaders, and agree. Even so, you can see these days that they can't even make a deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8970	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few sentences in favour of the amendment I have submitted, I must refer to yesterday's presentation by the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am always surprised by Mr Milan Markovic with some of his work innovations, i.e. by some new understanding and interpretation of the positive legal rules of the Republic of Serbia. The first thing that falls into the eyes is that Minister Milan Markovic said yesterday that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has nothing to do with the disbanding of local self-government units. Under the Law on Local Self-Government, the government disbands the municipality, or the city's assembly, but on a proposal from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, without an appropriate proposal from the ministry, the government has no right to disband the local self-government unit assembly. Furthermore, Mr. Milan Markovic repeatedly repeated a phrase yesterday, somewhere before the end of the day, that is ridiculous to anyone who understands the law on local self-government. Says Mr. Milan Markovic - disbanding units of local self-government. Anyone who doesn't believe can look at the stenogram, Mr. Milan Markovic has repeated that phrase several times. Mr. Markovic, you're not disbanding local self-government units. The government has the right to disband the local self-government unit, and you have no right to disband local self-government units because you haven't even formed them. The municipalities and cities in Serbia were formed not by the government act, but by the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I must refer to also the funny finding by Milan Markovic, who said several times yesterday that elections for mayor of Belgrade should not be called, because the constitution does not know the category of president of the municipality, or mayor. Mr. Markovicu, the Constitution is the highest legal act and its community is at the highest possible level. If we were to observe things like that, then you shouldn't be sitting here either, because the Constitution also doesn't know the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, for example, the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, doesn't know the many agencies you've formed since 2000, and all of this exists in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Now something about the amendment. The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which has been sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is lacking on a number of grounds. The MPs of the SRS who represented the amendments proved this in a convincing way. However, I think it is a particularly scandalous provision of article 46. The Government Act, in particular Article 2. It's about publishing government acts. You see, one of the basic democratic principles in the work of state authorities is the principle of public work of state authorities. This principle of the public is achieved, above all, by making all acts brought by the state authorities, above all by the National Assembly and the Government, available in an appropriate official note by the Republic of Serbia, which is the 'Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia'. Of course, it would be logical to assume that the government is publishing in the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia all the acts it brings. However, this government obviously wants to hide something from the citizens of Serbia and to get their hands on it, then this is how they formulated Article 46. The Government Act: "Regulations, decisions, rules of procedure, a memorandum of budget and solutions are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's okay, but it's not right what's coming now, and that's the position of Article 2 46: "Other acts of the government and the Prime Minister can be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" if this law or other regulation is determined, or if so, when they are adopted by the Government." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by this formulation of Article 46, the current government is returning us to the time of Louis XIV, at a time when the government is acting not under legal regulations, but on the principle of state reasons. Approximately, the purpose of what the government has proposed is that one part of its policy, which is expressed in the acts that the government brings, this government, in fact, wants to hide from the public's eyes. This question is not harmless at all. You see, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and under the Government Act, the government has an extremely high authority. Now imagine the situation for the government to pass a certain act, but not to get to know the public, or the citizens of Serbia. I'll remind you, Mr. Markovic, of the provision of Article 51. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says - everyone has the right to be informed in full, complete and timely about issues of public importance and means of public notice, is obliged to respect this right. Everyone has the right to access information owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority, in accordance with the law. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, who deals with the distribution of information of public importance, has repeatedly regretted that the government and the ministries do not want to provide him with the information citizens ask for. Now imagine the situation, nor Rodoljub Sabic can inform citizens about certain data that are important to citizens, because the government does not allow it, nor does the government want to publish its specific acts in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". How can Serbian citizens then be informed of the government's work, the acts that the government brings if they do not have a physical opportunity to get acquainted with the content of these acts? That the question wasn't harmless, the government itself testified a few days ago. A few days ago, we were able to hear in public information that the government of Vojislav Kostunica announced blackmail for General Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic and Stojan Zupljanin. So they offered a certain amount of money in foreign currency - to whoever supplied the information where they were hiding. Hague fugitives. I ask you, Mr. Milan Markovic, is this blackmail on these Serbian heads published in any act that the government brings and is it published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? If it isn't, I'm asking you, why isn't it? These days, there has been controversy over whether there is fascism in Serbia, who are fascists, neofascists, etc. The Serbian government announced the other day that it offers a 1m-euro reward to the one who provides information on the whereabouts of Radovan Karadzic, General Ratko Mladic, or Stojan Zupljanin. Unfortunately, history in these places seems to repeat itself and that it is those who are full of mouths of antifascism, democracy, human rights, etc. who are doing exactly what fascists did. If that's the case, Mr. Milan Markovic, I'll prove it to you. "A hundred thousand heaven marks in gold will be given to one who brings a live or dead gang leader, Draž Mihajlovic, the date of July 21st 1943, signed by the German commander, General Paul Bader. Mr. Milan Markovic, this looks a lot like what you're doing right now. As you can see, then the German fascists were publishing a reward for Serbian heads, and so are you in 2007, so I ask you, who have a monopoly on the introduction of Serbia into the EU, on democracy, on human rights, on the rule of law, on anti-fascism, how can you behave in the same pattern that those who shot Serb students in Kragujevac were acting in 1941? As you can see, the matter is not harmless and naive at all. This isn't about one of our caprices, looking for hair in the egg when it comes to laws, or bill proposals, provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is about extremely important issues. Who guarantees that the Serbian government will not, in a few days, bring in any act that encroachs on fundamental human rights and freedoms, and that the act will be hidden from the eyes of the public, or will not be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? Let me get back to the amendment. The point of my amendment is to delete the rest of the text after the word "definitely" in Article 46(2). In fact, it is unacceptable for the Serbian government to depend on whether an act will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" or not. The government is a state authority and the government is exercising public authority. What kind of public authority is that if the acts she brings are hidden from the eyes of the public? Therefore, all acts adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both in general and individually, must be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and must not be left to the Government for free assessment of whether any act should be published or not. If the amendment of the SRS is not accepted, then we come to a great danger. Serbia is returning to the period of the absolute state. There are no more guarantees on the public work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Who today in Serbia can guarantee that Serbian citizens can enjoy their human rights and freedoms uninterrupted if it is known that some key state institutions do not function, and above all, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia? The constitution stipulates that a citizen who has been violated by human rights, who has exhausted all other legal mechanisms, can say so-called. constitutional appeal. I ask you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition -- to whom is it to state, when the Constitutional Court in Serbia is still missing? Therefore, a good part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has, by your fault, remained a 'dead letter on paper' and in all this you are proposing a government law in which you explicitly say there are acts of government and prime minister who can be hidden from the eyes of the public. Where is democracy, where are human rights and where are any European standards? I call on you, Mr. Minister, and also to the gentlemen of the ruling coalition, because I know that there are also people's MPs in their ranks who believe that the amendment was established, that you accept this amendment, because otherwise you are introducing Serbia into an extra-constitutional state, in a dark age, when the government can bring the acts it wants without informing the public of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8972	Thank you. Is there anything else about this amendment? Please, MP Zoran Krasic [[No voice from the bench: No transmission.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8973	There isn't? Then there's no Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-25-0.u8974	Since there's no transmission, we interrupt the session. Resumption is tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
