ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u804	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Rules of Procedure provide for a number of members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club to hand over a proposal to the National Assembly to elect MP Oliver Dulic as Parliament Speaker. I suggest that this item be placed on the agenda, of course after the decision-making point of the National Assembly, and I suggest we unify the debate on these two points of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u805	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u806	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party did not want to interfere with everything agreed by false Democrats, although in the first part they did contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, our sublaw legal act, which is most important for us, after the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to discuss in the first session the selection of the bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the resolution and impeachment. In order for us not to be like you, in order for us to distinguish ourselves from you in a democratic tradition and respect for democratic procedure, we have accepted something that is not a business norm and you cannot interpret it in that way, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure, that only it can be changed exceptionally, because I don't see that today maybe the city has fallen, so it has destroyed the Assembly, and it can't be otherwise, and that anything else has happened so that it has to be interpreted as some norm. I listed the reason why we agreed. I'd just like to quote the gentleman who just spoke. He said only four days ago – the congregation's majority seems to be in a hurry, so they're nervous, so they're putting everything on the agenda at once. You can't talk about your wonderful candidate, who, by the way, you've changed, have you maybe joked before or are you joking with this new candidate right now, it's totally irrelevant, but you can't really talk about him. If you are so strong, powerful and brave, let's talk about the reasons for Tomislav Nikolic's shift. I think there are too many of them and you, Mr. Aligrudich, could say them. You are the intellectual gromad who said by yesterday that it is best for Serbia to elect Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president, and four days later you changed your decision. Of course, you're not uncomfortable, and I'm not going to ask you whether, as Mr. Sutanovac said, he was taking off your hooligans and pulling out your ears or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the false Democrats to show a little elementary democratic practice and show a little civilization culture. First, we should talk about the resolution of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and then we should talk about another intellectual gromad and size like Mr. Aligrudic, I don't know how he stands with ears and hooligans, and Mr. Dulic. I think that's the best possible suggestion. As a result, it would be important and helpful to perform the National Assembly in this direction. That's what I'm saying because I don't understand where you're in a hurry, because you're going to form a government that you're going to send Serbia to ruin. You will form a government that will lose Kosovo and Metohija, you will do all the worst for Serbia anyway. Don't rush. The later you form it, less trouble and less trouble for the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u807	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to invite Mr. Nikolic not to resign until the debate on his resolution is opened. Anyway, I think the beginning of this session is promising. I would like to see these reasons, which are national and national reasons for someone calling on the SPS to schedule a session of the assembly and vote Monday for Tomislav Nikolic, at the address of the party that will now vote for another presidential candidate. Therefore, we are not a political party that will turn around as the wind blows, nor would we have chosen Tomislav Nikolic if we had not agreed with someone. But at least let it be heard about the reasons, perhaps you and I can convince ourselves that we are also voting for the recall of Tomislav Nikolic. I would ask Mr Petrovic, what they have suggested, of course, is completely legitimate, but I think it is the elemental order to replace Tomislav Nikolic first and then propose a new president. It can only be voted on when the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is replaced. I respect what you've suggested, personally I don't mind either of those or this current candidate, it's your choice and your proposal, but it's not even instructions to put this on the agenda right now until this agenda ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u808	The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u809	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Rules of Procedure, Rule 90, item 5 - proposals for certain points of the agenda to be extended. Respecting the wish of many MPs, especially MPs who, at the time we elected the speaker of the assembly, were a parliamentary minority and their demands to continue the 2nd item of the constitutional session agenda, although it was practically completed, and this was the choice of our negotiating team, a large number of representatives of the Democratic Party and other parties came out with a request to open a debate on the report of our negotiating team. Normally, although we were the majority, we understood these reasons, because we too demanded that this report be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because we think Serbia is in an extremely difficult situation, that parliament should get information about it, since until then the Assembly was not even established, that it gives guidance and guidance on how our team will perform in the next period. In particular, it was necessary to put the agenda item at the first next session of the Serbian Parliament because Serbian President Boris Tadic's adviser, Mr Leon Kojen, resigned as advisers and in the public, as far as we could understand, unequivocally expressed not only the protest, but also the suspicion that, without being informed by the president, members of his cabinet agree with someone and not inform anyone about it and that these negotiations or agreements could be extremely harmful to Serbia. What was particularly worrying is that one of the reasons led by the Democratic Party of Serbia is that it does not, in some way, end negotiations, but that negotiations with the Democratic Party are much more cautious, i.e. that they have justified fear, given some of the former things that have been happening, regarding President Boris Tadic. For example, you remember that big fog in Skopje, when, by chance or not, he met with Agim Ceku. Well, then, negotiations with the Austrians. And normally, I understand the Democratic Party of Serbia that, especially after asking them to be the absolute controllers of all the ministries of force, or intelligence services, this may be a major problem for Serbia. Respecting all the reasons both the Democratic parties and the Democratic Party of Serbia, we were still on 9 May (don't think that this is any kind of obstruction) requested that, based on Article 114a. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia include in the agenda a draft report by the Negotiating Team on the Martti Ahtisaari's negotiations. I don't know how it's possible that there is no proposal from the Serbian Radical Party in this notice of incoming acts. I really don't understand. We handed this over on May 9th, this act of the topic that all MPs receive in this notice. It has since 11 May -- a proposal for a candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to relieve the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but has been missing since 9 May. I don't want to believe that it was a deliberate mistake, that someone deliberately wanted to remove such an important thing, especially by respecting the situation when this was taught, when you were a parliamentary minority. I'm asking you, Mr. President, to put this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u810	Mr. Todorovic, I ask you to accept my apology, but it is obvious that the services of the National Assembly do not cooperate with me to the extent that it is necessary. If they cooperate, they would inform Mr Petrovic that his request is not in line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm gonna have to do. Mr Petrovic, you can submit a proposal for a candidacy for the president of the National Assembly only if the Assembly has resolved or if the term of office of the president has ceased before he was elected for some of the reasons mentioned in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I could tell you even rougher, I'm still alive, so please, your request will most likely be discussed by the new president of the National Assembly and I recommend that you put it on the agenda right now, but now you choose the president, and you don't know if I'm going to be resolved, because the partner who chose me can again... Articles 9 and 10. The Rules of Procedure speak about how the President of the National Assembly is proposed, but Article 30(1). The Rules of Procedure say: "In the event of the end of the term of office of the President of the National Assembly before the end of the time he was elected, the National Assembly will begin the procedure of electing the President of the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the latest. '"Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u811	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as you yourself have said, a motion for a debate on Parliament's resolution has been tabled in the assembly. Democratic Party MPs submitted a proposal to the assembly to elect the speaker of parliament. This congregation has the right to declare whether or not it will put that item on the agenda. I asked you to put the Democratic Party's proposal to the vote. The second thing is our proposal to bring together a debate on these two points of the agenda. If the debate was concluded, it would be joined by a vote. Of course, if parliament decides that the current speaker of parliament remains the speaker of the assembly, it would not be joined by the vote on this item of the agenda after a united debate. We remain on the proposal to put our proposal to the vote and put this item on the agenda, and then put our proposal to the vote to unify the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u812	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic has a word, so Mrs. Radeta, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal by Mr Petrovic is interesting. When he is wrong and is contrary to the right of what he says, the team is worse by law, and doesn't care about Mr Petrovic which knows how pointless what he says is. He's not stupid, Mr. Petrovic. Some others are stupid, but Mr. Petrovic is doing something that is an orderly legal violence. Mr. Petrovic, article 28 is defined when the National Assembly president's office ends. It shall cease before the time it has been elected to: with the resignation, resolution or termination of the term of office of the MP. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the president of the National Assembly, he is alive, thank God, healthy, his name is Tomislav Nikolic. Only when you've solved it will you be able, Mr. Petrovich, to choose a new one. It's not just this Rules of Procedure, it's basic legal logic. I'm counting on you to have the full help and support of Mr Aligrudic now. I'm counting, like this with his ears ripped out, it's so much easier for him to whisper and help you out how and what to do. I don't know what he's gonna do with those cavemen or the hooligans or whatever, but I'm counting on him to teach you a little bit. He's a little more common than that, though. With his ears ripped out, he must be a lot more common. But in order not to throw this serious thing out, don't play with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't your front. You can force, in one way or another, the power to conquer, you've already shown it countless times; you can, when you make that majority, and Serbia try to destroy it. You can do anything, but don't think that you can run us all over here, because don't get out of your mind, there's 81 people here who are willing to stand up to any of your legal violence, 81 people who aren't afraid of you or this one with their ears ripped out, 81 people who love Serbia and the freedom of this country more than anything and who will defeat your every violent behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u814	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have watched and heard from all sorts of nonsense since 2000 by self-called Democrats – violations of the Constitution, violations of the law, violations of the Rules of Procedure. I really don't know, if I were to list, from 2000 to today, how many times you've broken or insisted on breaking this Rules of Procedure, or those previous Rules of Procedure, you wouldn't be able to choose the government within the time period that you agreed to; I should be counting how many times and how many times you've broken the Rules of Procedure. Today, tonight, this is a scandal over scandals, Mr. Dusan Petrovic. I can't believe you're calling yourself a graduate lawyer. You can't read the basic, simplest norm; I don't ask you to interpret it, I know you don't know it, but you can't read it, Mr. Petrovic. It is truly amazing what all things can be born in the heads when they meet, as they say, thieves and traitors, so when thieves and traitors try to reverse-application to finish some work, probably in fear that each other in the meantime will not betray, that one of them will not receive a letter from this, the other from those different third-rate officials from various Western European countries and the United States. Mr. Petrovic, I understand your desire to finish this job as soon as possible; you are probably afraid of that man behind you who you probably played. As far as I know, he expected to be president of the National Assembly, but that's already your business. I want to remind the people's MPs, and above all, the public of Serbia, because I am convinced that more than three million citizens are watching us tonight, as it looked at us the night we elected Mr. Tomislav Nikolic as president of the National Assembly... Be assured that on that night, citizens looked at us only because they couldn't wait for Mr. Tomislav Nikolic to become the president of the National Assembly, to finally get this country to light up, to finally move towards the release of Serbia's state. Of course, the fact that you played it, now I'm talking about these with no hooligans tonight, the other night they had hooligans, so they thought differently, we'll talk about it when Mr. Nikolic opens the debate. I really need to remind the citizens of what we have experienced in the National Assembly. Democrats: a vote from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, exclusion, eviction from the Assembly Hall that was in Montenegro at the moment or from the MP who was in Batajnica. So, we've been looking at each other. You forbade transfers, that Serbian citizens would not see your shame and shame, that they would not see how you see democracy. Mr Petrovic, gentlemen of the self-called Democrats, as much as you are in a hurry, as much as they have instructed you to do what you must do, be sure that we, MPs of the most numerous parliamentary groups, Serbian Radical parties, 81, came here tonight fully prepared, prepared, put to sleep and rest; we will use the Rules of Procedure maximum, we will use our business rights maximum, we will not allow you to rape the right and insult the intelligence of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. Your proposal is absolutely contrary to Articles 28 and 30. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Have so much morality, because you've done so much immoral these days, along with these Kostunica's dummies or, better say, you and one of the other are half-breeds, and we'll discuss that letter in the evening and in the night – you realize that you've made a mistake and don't embarrass yourself anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u815	Mr Krasic, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr Paja Momchilov, Aleksandar Vukic, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u816	I would point to a whole series of violations of the Rules of Procedure; I read the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, signed by Milos Aligrudic. He's running away again, of course. So, when it comes to this proposal for inclusion and a united debate on two different points of the agenda, this is primarily about medical reasons, there is no problem with the Rules of Procedure, a specific member. I would draw attention to the president of the National Assembly that some disorder is ruling in the Service of the National Assembly and probably Mr. Danilovic, as secretary, is guilty of it. I could understand that some medical reasons exist, that this proposal that Mr. Petrovic was talking about was filed at 20.40 hours, as it was today, but that we don't have a president, say, at 20.35 hours. We, thank God, have the President still and I don't know how we could bring together a debate on any possible, potential, future, uncertain in any case, candidate and agenda point, with a fully certain agenda point. There's really something wrong with professional service here. They could have seduced this, both by chronology and by the obligation that exists under the Rules of Procedure to hand it over to the president and to discuss it, possibly, at a session of the National Assembly. But this point, proposed by the Democratic Party, with the agenda item signed by Milos Aligrudic, is impossible to connect. Let me remind you, we had big pearls in this National Assembly. For such thought proposals, the merger of incompatible things was usually in charge of Albianic, in one previous meeting was a Zivorad. I know that this side and these first two rows drag some waterways here, and that's where weird behavior comes in, but I couldn't expect this kind of weird behavior. However, second place here was a few years ago, each other, now an MP, he said -- it cannot be classified as a motion to vote for no confidence in the government, because those who signed did not vote for the government. He gave us a man a few days ago a lecture on democracy, and he has no idea, he didn't even walk down the street where democracy rules, let alone some things tell us. Please, there are major medical problems here, and this needs to be returned to some consulate to examine the promoter, because something like this is impossible. This is about the same as if we heard from Dusan Petrovic that he said here – he could be a candidate for National Assembly president who can jump seven metres up from the place. It's a democratic vision. Although, from Dusan Petrovic, we've been listening to everything here, it's no wonder. I suggest you inform the promoter that there are no conditions to put this into the agenda at all, and of course you appreciate little of these MPs, yet there are people here who reasonably conclude, it is impossible to connect these two points of the agenda, absolutely impossible. Now, you know anything is possible in DS headquarters.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u817	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u818	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when the five-octobaric turkeys entered, number 176, here at the National Assembly, and set out to some business provisions to set out that the most legislative body would behave and that we were fulfilling our rights and obligations, there was indeed everything, from various experts on these issues, through the end of the Rules of Procedure to take away the opportunity to talk about how you are immediately, all together, and you from the Democratic Party and you from the Democratic Party of Serbia, set out to rob and sell to Serbia, but something like this would not fall on that unfortunate set we defeated in the 28 December 2003 elections. Mr Petrovic, if Cedomir Jovanovic has left you in your legacy, but for a short time, the Democratic Party (as things change and how Cedin's popularity in your ranks grows, you will again be able to return to that position of wearing bureks and yogurt), and since you have not learned from Cedomir Jovanovic that it is not possible to propose the impeachment of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am indeed, as a serious politician, and I belong to the most prominent and popular party in Serbia, I must go to the MPs and to the public, it is my duty and duty, to make a single normal proposal tonight, before Serbia, along with you, with Aligrudić and other experts for the Rules of Procedure, to go into even deeper darkness, from which long you will not get away if you make this unhappy, third DOS government. Namely, I received the great honour from my party to go to the Serbian presidency building to see someone named Boris Tadic and who is the president of the Republic for you three months ago. I told him that the Serbian Radical Party had won the elections, that on behalf of the party that sent me there, along with my colleagues, I was looking for a mandate for the government's composition; that he, just like your Democratic Party, whose leader he was, was beaten to death in the elections by the SRS in Belgrade especially and in Kragujevac from which I came; that it would be best, since it is obvious that he does not understand it, just as you understand nothing, are only important to you your functions, your chairs and to continue stealing and to rob, to resign as President of the Republic. I listened carefully, as did millions of Serbian citizens, and those who sent support to Mr Tomislav Nikolic from the diaspora, from all the countries where Serbs live, that Serbia as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has finally become a democratic country and that after 70 years, the most legislative body has won a president who is proud of every honest and honorable citizen of Serbia, and they are the most, because they cannot bear that such people as you continue to exercise power and that, in the right sense of words, both through legal violence and in any other way terrorize this people. Therefore, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I present to the Serbian Parliament something that should be agreed on by the vast majority. Well, if there are moral, honest and honest people and those who propose with you, Mr. Petrovic, that such a democratic president, who was looking forward to Serbia, and is looking forward to all these days, it would be best to refer, in fact, to the only possible proposal for Serbia to get out of this situation, but in the building across the street, Boris Tadic, that, based on Article 117. The Constitution, resigns and is based on Article 187. (when the President of the Republic resigns he will do well for Serbia, the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia) to inform Mr Tomislav Nikolic tonight, and the President of the Assembly will deliver this notice to all of us, the MPs; yes, in accordance with the Constitution, Mr Tomislav Nikolic takes over the role of the President of the Republic and to immediately discuss the elections for the President, on which to beat both Boris Tadic and DSS, and the G17 and all of you who have teamed up against him and us, who really want democracy, justice, freedom for our people and for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u819	Mr. Jovanovic, and Aleksandar Vukic, Paja Momchilov, then Mr. Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u820	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the Rules of Procedure are being violated at this very moment. Nevertheless, we insist on uniting a agenda item that would allow parliament to discuss and resolve the existing speaker of the Assembly and the election of a new one in a debate. The reasons are clear and we talked about them during the debate that preceded the election of Mr Nikolic's Assembly president. We said that we felt it was a mistake, and that is why it is important for us to get him off the hook as soon as possible. I'd like to speak to you, Mr. Nikolic, as president of the Parliament. You participated, not as a president, but as a representative of your party, the most numerous parliamentary groups, in determining the agenda of the First (Constitutive) session. I attended these meetings, as did the other heads of Parliament. Then it is very clear, with the agreement and consent of all of us, also broken Rules of Procedure, by defining the agenda which is not set out in this Rules of Procedure, to which your party friends are today called. The first, constitutive session is a session at which, in accordance with Article 6. The Rules of Procedure, confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament, elects the President, Vice-President and members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and as last, practically, the election and appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly. This parliament has already violated the Rules of Procedure during this session. The Rules of Procedure have also been broken through the constitution of parliamentary groups. The groups were established before the president was elected, also contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have also been misused too many times and thus violated. Mr. Nikolic, if you did not choose the right way to come to that function that you are in, because of those motives that you yourself spoke about by running for Parliament president, I would suggest that you choose another time for rematch to the one who deceived you, and help the society in a difficult situation by choosing a good way to leave, allowing Parliament to plead after my speech and thus open a debate in which, of course, you have the full right and freedom to say all that you have done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u821	Mr. Momchilov, and Aleksandar Vukic, then Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out here to point out the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, proposed by a representative of the so-called. Democrats in this country. It is already clear what the violation of the Rules of Procedure is being viewed, but, because of our citizens, I will explain to the end how this Rules of Procedure is being violated. Article 28 clearly states that the President of the National Assembly ceases his post: by resignation, resolution or termination of his term of office. It is then said in Article 29: "The National Assembly may relieve the president of the National Assembly before the time it was elected, by the procedure envisaged for the election of the President of the Assembly." Article 30, which is both the main and the final, says: "In the event of the end of the post of National Assembly President before the end of the time he was elected, the National Assembly will be at the same time, and no later than at the next session, the election procedure of the National Assembly will begin, in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure." What's this about? Those who honor us with democracy and democratic principles, which talk about the legality and adherence of the Rules of Procedure, come out here, in the image of that young man, say - yes, we are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and we should do so. Who tells us that? That man who has overestimated, dimming ideas of size that he can conclude – here, I said what I have and now to vote. It is a man who convinces us at the previous session that the Rules of Procedure is not respected because the 2nd item of the agenda is not finished; when it is read as well as read, it is obvious that he is either having a problem with a formal opinion or ensnaring all of us here. It is a man whose first profession, after a long study time, was the vice-president of the Serbian government. It is a man who advocates the same principle, to impose on us here our colleague, probably an honorable man, who, with his age and his political experience, this House should not be chaired. I appreciate my colleague and say this in the best interests of the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian country. It is to sit here next to him that good knower of Darwin's theory of evolution, who honors us that she here in parliament does not apply, in translation: from the apes he became a man. It's not exactly evidence here. The kind of proposals that we are offered right now make this parliament the way a respected representative of the Democratic Party sees it. If this parliament remains in it, then the tyranny of the majority is being seduced, unprincipled, and we will talk a lot about proving tonight what your undisciplinedness is looking at, we will reveal to the citizens of Serbia what we know about you, although it is quite clear, the masks have fallen many. So, it can be the tyranny of the majority, but then this isn't the country anymore, and you're not Democrats anymore, so you're fascists, and you're pure fascists.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u823	The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, I know there's a bit of noise in the O.R., if you could listen, since this is what I'm about to present evidence of a new Bodrum and a new Thessaloniki. There's been a big theft and a big forgery. I've brought in the act that we, the MPs, have received. So here you are clearly looking for your solution. Under regular number 2 among those who support this is the signed, ladies and gentlemen, Bogdanovic Nenad, the man who is on treatment in Italy. I am shocked and I am asking you, Mr. President, to interrupt the session, to see how to get out of the catastrophic state we are currently in, because they voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and at the time of Petrovic and at the time of Cedomir Jovanovic, who I don't know how he found himself giving us some lessons about democracy, he was smart or anyone else, I didn't understand that, I don't think even the citizens of Serbia... So, as long as I've known, or since we Serbian radicals know, of Mr. Bogdanovic's disease, I haven't said a word about his political action or anything else; with a special, different relationship we look at him and everything that happens. We wish him good health, a quick recovery. Please, Mr. President, to determine when Dusan Petrovic's paper arrived and "intellectual gromada" Milos Aligrudic to Mr. Bogdanovic in Italy, who signed it in Italy, so that paper returned here to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Or, if that's not true, then it's another proof of what kind of forgers and con men we're dealing with. I think this is a thing you can't get past. It is very important that Serbian citizens know where Mr Bogdanovic is, when he signed this and why they need it, when and without Mr Bogdanovic they have it, because everything they do, they do back-to-back, they steal again, they rob, they forge and everything else they need. Habit is a habit, but justice is justice. And, law and justice, at the end of that criminal habit, must win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 9, where it is defined that the MP can only participate in proposing one candidate. That is why Mr Dusan Petrovic's proposal is not logical and is not according to the Rules of Procedure, because the same MPs cannot propose two different candidates during the same session. Mr. Dusan Petrovic was at a session on May 7th at 1:15 p.m., and I will quote him, saying: "It is obvious that there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the Assembly would have to work according to established order. If there are legal options, until the agenda is changed, correctly, legally, under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the justified functioning of this Parliament should be in line with the established agenda and that, at this point, or when circumstances arise, the debate on the proposal is opened." Mr. President, I would only ask you to direct your attention to the fact that many obviously try and violate the Constitution, which we have shared forces and shared energy, we have succeeded in adopting. Article 21 says, "The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, I would like to emphasise, "political or other beliefs... ". Here, during the previous day, many, particularly representatives of G17, said they did not want to sit next to Natasha Jovanovic, beside you. Apparently, they violated Article 21 when it comes to the ban on discrimination on political or other convictions. It is obvious that not only do they violate the Rules of Procedure, but they also violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll just take a few sentences, and I'll take some time away from you. It has been said to you, while many MPs, above all from the DSS and the NS, have chosen you in this place, in this high home, to be convinced of consistency, self-critism and high degree of tolerance; that you are open to the public, to advocate democratic principles in work and decision making; that your choice for Parliament president guarantees the continuation of positive changes in parliamentary life, above all, our country of Serbia and the creation of conditions for the intensive development of our Serbia in all areas of life and work; that you have made an immeasurable contribution to the affirmation of Serbia and the achievement of its interests and needs, putting firstly all citizens, independent of their party and religious commitment. Use your abilities, work and energy of politicians selflessly in organising these goals, in achieving co-operation with all entities that can help its citizens to take their place not only in Serbia, Europe, but also outside Europe's borders.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u826	The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u827	Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic is in Belgrade. Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic signed the proposal to make Oliver Dulic president of the assembly. Mr. President, someone may, you or one of the vice presidents, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Ms. Jovanovic, or Mr. Vukic, at the moment, step out of this room and call for a home number in Belgrade, Nenad Bogdanovic, to check whether it is true or not. It really isn't an opportunity or a time to spread the topic Mr. Vukic was talking about. So, once again, I'm just going to say, Mr. Bogdanovic signed this proposal and it can be determined by whatever method of skill. So, you can right now, if you want. As far as the proposal is concerned, any proposal for a national solution, elected by this assembly, whether it be the judges, ministers, government or president of the Assembly, may come on the agenda of the moment it appears in the Assembly, which is, of course, the question of the existence of the parliamentary majority's will to do so or not. I want to say that I fully understand the political struggle and I can understand the hard words that are said here. We had very good consultations last night in preparation for this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They were all heads of parliament clubs, of course, there was the President of Parliament. We talked about the different scenarios of this session, the scenarios in the best sense of that word, so that the agenda points that are here in front of us and in what order are included in the agenda. We had all thought about it together, so we all expressed our views, including Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that it would be good for the assembly not to be without the president and that it would be good if the Assembly did not come in a bad way for Serbia to be without the president and if the initiative to vote on Mr Nikolic's resolution would get the majority in this parliament. So, in the best spirit of parliamentaryism, with the best intention, respecting and respecting the state interest, the Democratic Party put forward a proposal to ensure that citizens' interests are fully protected. That's what we talked about last night, and it's a big surprise for me that we're having this reaction today. But I understand that completely. I understand the political struggle, I understand that political views are represented with different styles and in different ways. We did, once again, a proposal on which a very constructive debate was held last night at a meeting of parliamentary club presidents with Parliament Speaker Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u828	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this isn't hard to determine, just not as hard as last time. Dusan Petrovic, from the scene: You can do it now. Don't be nervous, Mr. Petrovich. Why are you worried? You'll come, you'll keep robbing and kidnapping. I see you'll be in the business of finance. Wait, a day more or less, it's no big deal, don't worry about it. I'm just afraid it's not like last time you held a press conference for 45 minutes, showed cards and everything, and then it happened. I don't mind, and I wish Mr. Bogdanovic good health first of all, I want him to get well as soon as possible, I want him back and we can compete politically, we can compete politically. Mr. Petrovic, as far as you're concerned, this wouldn't be your first, second, third time. Mr. Bogdanovic... Otherwise, it's known how and how persecuted he was and how you've looked at everything to drive him away, and it's not the subject this time, but whether he signed this or not. And Mr Bogdanovic did not sign this, but you delivered the list that was written to you and that list of MPs from a month or two ago, when you were building a parliamentary group. You know that, and everyone in this room knows that. And you know, Mr. Petrovic, that you didn't carry the whole list, went from one to the next, signed it, and carried it to Nenada Bogdanovic. So you think we're all crazy around here? No one thinks that, except for this genius who knows nothing else in life, except that he's running something out of place so no one alive understands what he's saying or how he's saying it. They're laughing at you. I don't know why. Everyone recognized as soon as I said genius. He looks like a man from Professor Micunovic's story, and Mr. Micunovic is democratically hitting everything. Isn't that right, Mr. Micunovic? I don't want to talk about complexes right now. We'll talk about it later. So, Mr. Petrovic, don't make it up; I'm not going to tell you the hard word, you know what it would say in Serbian, it doesn't seem like civilized people at all. It's not even appropriate for me to use your dictionary from four or five days ago, when we had a debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and God forbid someone talks like this next to you. If someone from the SRS group spoke like this next to you, we would rule it out and violate all democratic procedures, because there could be no such thing in our party. Please, Mr. President, so that they don't think that someone is afraid of their debate or that I don't know what, that you explain to them again very nicely two key reasons why they can't have a united debate tonight, but they'll have to wait until they vote for your resolution, and then vote for whoever they want, for this Micunovic's example of evolution, Mr. Micunovic, I'm talking, or for someone else, it doesn't matter. But you'll have to wait for him to change you before that. Mr. President, I know they're very nervous about one fact, which has proved to be the worst con men, and I'm going to show that later and prove to the examples of what's been going on, who's been talking to who's been talking to, who's done what's agreed and who's disrespecting. They're nervous about something else and I'm pointing to that, Mr. President. Agim Ceku today said, I don't know if you've heard of his statement, that he welcomes the victory, that is, the democratic bloc's agreement in Serbia on forming a new government, because the government of the democratic bloc will work well and successfully with the government of independent Kosovo. It is today's statement by Agim Ceku, therefore, of whom the President of the Republic calls a fog soldier at Skopje's airport. That's why they're in a hurry. They're in a hurry to make it easier for Nicholas Burns to get their hands on it. This example from Micun's theory of evolution began to correct me from English. I lived in England, Mr. Example, and don't teach me English. Mr. Micunović, I wouldn't say anything like that, it's just a theory, but that's it. So Nicholas Burns said today, after he told Mr. Nikolic yesterday that he had something against you and that he had something against the SRS, thank him... And now listen to why -- thank him, the "model" also to hear. So, Nicholas Burns says today – we are looking and we will ensure that Kosovo is independent by the end of May and therefore welcome the election of a new government, which will be European, reform and democratic. That's why, Mr. Nikolic, I am in a hurry to congratulate you on one thing, because you will enter history because of it, the books will enter that they wanted to remove you, and so speedily, all of them, all of them, and also "the example", just because you didn't want to participate with them in the kidnapping of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and because you wanted to guard Kosovo and Metohija. That's true, not what this one with his ears ripped out is talking about, that's something that's not true and that's something that doesn't look like anyone. Thank you, Mr. President, for your understanding. I ask you once again to meet Mr. Petrovic with the Rules of Procedure, he will, I suppose, understand; the "model" will not, but he will understand. So, they will understand that the right must be respected, because they can do whatever they want here, but the right to step down, and freedom and the right to exist, and we MPs who represent the citizens of Serbia, who represent our people, will never be able to take away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u830	The word is Mr. Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u831	I guess we should all start a discussion about this -- Article 104, point 1, so we know what we're talking about, otherwise the Rules of Procedure is really abused. I'm sorry, Mr. Sutanovac, you'll certainly have a chance. So I read today in "Blica" one comment that started like this – well, they agreed, they were ashamed. If anyone thought that Serbian citizens would forgive all of us sitting here together, regardless of our party calculations, I think they're wrong. The story of the quality of political elites in Serbia is reopened, at the moment we are being robbed of 15% of our territory, when our economy is ruined. But it seems that both the economy and the state and everything else is not the subject. Gentlemen, if someone thought to appoint the president of parliament from the SRS, even if it was Tomislav Nikolic, vice president, and that radicals would be easily released, and others who are moral, to just change, two or three days ago elected, the President of the Assembly, just because most of them changed in the meantime, it can't cost. Those who prepared this session, I'm talking about the course of the session, it's not important here, Solana, then they were wrong, gentlemen, because of course the radicals will defend Tomislav Nikolic and of course all those who believe in moral and political agreements will defend him, regardless of what I or someone else personally thinks of Tomislav Nikolic. That was the deal. I have one question, I apologize, Mr. Petrovic, for mentioning you, not in a bad way, I don't understand you at all, people, why you gave a united debate... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: He is sick. No, Mr. Petrovic is not sick. Don't let us do this anymore. Let's insult each other. (President: Mr. Krassic, refrain. Just to be clear, what's the story here today? We have a new congregation majority, and that is quite enough reason to change Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because some agreement was reached late, only out of fear of changing relations on the Serbian political scene and probably under pressure from the international community. That's quite a reason, but I don't understand you; Mr Petrovic, in preparation for this session to realize that the violation of the Rules of Procedure by calling on the Rules of Procedure and that the debate would go in this direction... Why don't you let us discuss first the shift of Tomislav Nikolic, whom I would also like to call not to resign, but to replace him within the new majority, and then, also by urgent procedure, to open a debate on the appointment of a new president, because we are really insulting each other's intelligence. Well, maybe it's the Rules of Procedure, and it's possible, but it doesn't make sense. Therefore, I urge you, Mr Petrovic, for purely pragmatic reasons to withdraw the motion for a united debate, to let us see what happens when we vote on the confidence of the President of the Assembly, which I see he has agreed to, and the reason is extremely pragmatic - because, if you hadn't done so, I hope there would be this much debate about the Rules of Procedure, by breaking the Rules of Procedure, by referring to the Rules of Procedure. Please adapt that request, to give it up, to open a debate on whether Tomislav Nikolic has confidence in the Assembly or not, and then, after an urgent procedure, run for another candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u832	The word is Mr. Momchilov, so Mr. Petrovic, Mr. Krasic, Mr. Cvetanović, and Mr. Canak came forward before you, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u833	Dear People's MPs, I thought I'd report under the line of lines, but I think it's convenient to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The point is, of course, the one where someone is said to be misread. So, what's this about? Mr Petrovic chose to say about this – that political struggle is being fought here, that we are eager to fight, the arena, that we are making a play out of pure politics here, and that its motives are to protect the state's interest. I mean, how funny it is, you don't even have to talk. Imagine what Mr. Petrovic is talking about. If there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure at the same time and does not propose a new candidate and chooses, the state will suffer very much even if it does not have a president one day. Let me remind you, the assembly has vice presidents, Mr Petrovic, and one day it will support such vice presidents. Mr. Petrovic, we don't have a biography of an esteemed colleague you're proposing. What do you want from us and what do you want from us? Mr. candidate, as far as I can see, he's 30 years old, as far as I can metrically estimate, and I don't know anything else about him. I don't know his virtues and his faults. In a home like this, you make such a suggestion, you offer a cat in a sack. Shame on you, for Serbia. After all, if you join the vote, you'll see that it's unprincipled tyranny. [[Applause radically.]] The only thing that's interesting is this group of legalists standing up for the rule of law. How they can participate in that, it's interesting, and they're looking for a legal state. I'm not asking for an answer, because, my God, they have their own concerns and problems, so I'm not getting into it. There's been a lot of talk here these days with the pathos, the tirads, the beautiful quotes, there's a lot of unnecessary barbecue, there's been too much theater, there's sarcasm and everything. That is why I will now tell you a folk proverb here – it is known in the morning. I'd also like to tell you the Montenegrin one - which the coat of arms is born... You know the sequel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u834	He has the word Mr. Canak, so the replica has Mr. Petrovic. He called before you did, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u835	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in several members, and members 103, 104 and others of that occupation are not worth mentioning. I would draw attention to the importance of sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, there are very few norms in this country that anyone is sticking to, so if the National Assembly won't stick to its rules, then we'll really be in trouble to explain to the citizens of this country that we need to follow any rules, any laws. However, the reason I came out is a member of 85th and what he treats. I think the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly violated Article 85, where item 1 states that meetings of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, between 10.00 and 18:00 hours, with an hour's interruption. As far as I can tell, it's Saturday, tomorrow's Sunday, but the day after tomorrow is Monday. So, the days pass, we only have to have a session on Tuesday. We were invited today to come, back-to-back, to decide now at once. I'm asking another question, as is possible, that they were head of Parliament clubs yesterday at consultations. That's not true. I wasn't at the consultation yesterday. The reason is this: I wasn't invited at 20 to nine in the evening to come to the consultations at 9:15, from Novi Sad. It's just, I'd say, impossible. The president of the National Assembly called me and we talked about what to do about this additional violation of the Rules of Procedure about when to begin the session – in the morning, at noon, or at other times. Thank God, what I said is respected, and that is that we must stick to the Rules of Procedure and the session must begin 24 hours after the material for the session has been delivered. I'm saying all this for the next one. Dear People's MPs, distinguished ladies, respected citizens of Serbia, my question is - why are we now in a situation to violate the Rules of Procedure and now we have a session? From this moment on, it is 74 hours until the government of the Republic of Serbia has to be established, or we will all be in a position together to break the law, the Constitution and whatnot, in order for Serbia to get the government. My question is very simple. If it's all like that, and it'll explain far better than me, Mr Batic, with whom I've already talked about it, then explain to me what's going on here right now. Why did Mr. President of the Assembly call this session? Because if we want to go into parliamentary obstruction, which the SRS wouldn't be the first time, or I'm talking about you and your advocacy in the domain of obstruction of the work of the National Assembly and of all institutions, I think it would be far more logical, not breaking the Rules of Procedure, to schedule a session for Tuesday, not today. So I ask the question why it was necessary to break the Rules of Procedure in order to extort the citizens of Serbia now. I have to remind you, this is where it was now said, don't mind me because I didn't see who said it, but they said the SRS MPs were asleep. This means that they are prepared for a long-term existence in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to contribute to obstruction. This means that behind all this lies the deception of Serbian citizens, who are now due to do the following. All forces need the DSS to save us from what they've gotten us into. Now all of us Serbian citizens have to put up with it, we have to waste people's money, we have to break the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. President is breaking the Rules of Procedure by calling the Assembly on Saturday, or we all come into a position to play another play, another big show, where we should all report for the word now, that it is very serious and very conflicting, that we are very replicating each other, so that we welcome Serbia's government with relief. We all knew that on January 21st. Now the fundamental question is, are all of us sitting here ready for this type of hypocrisy and are we ready to move on with this farce? Because it's perfectly logical that a discussion must be separated about the president's shift and the election of a new one. It would be completely illogical to unite those two things. On the one hand, we now have a proposal to bring the discussion together so that we don't have two points, but only one point at a time, and we will have less time to spend on all of that, because, my God, we have to honor that 74-hour deadline or, on the other hand, to play these games. My answer is simple. I'm afraid there's a broader agreement behind all this, where we're just being brought in to be a scene that will disgust the citizens of Serbia. If we are, don't forget, this only institution that is legal and legitimate, according to the new Constitution of Serbia, which was voted by most of the MPs here, in terms of their parties, questioned, then I ask you what remains of the institutions, since we still don't have a government, a Constitutional Court, a public prosecutor, or anything else. If this assembly ceases to be an institution of elemental legitimacy, then what will happen to the fact and who will be responsible for what we have been through the past three months, how many Serbia has no government, in Vojvodina had five times the number of murders. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u836	Mr. Petrovic has a replica. After him is Mr. Dacic, Cvetanović, but above all, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u837	We from the Democratic Party are not fit to enter long-term controversy about procedural issues. Mr. President, you and I were in a meeting last night that, under the circumstances, wasn't Mr. Canak. The meeting was concluded and I heard from several participants, and one of them was you, the president of the assembly, so it would be good to have the agenda item -- the resolution of the president of the Serbian Parliament, he added, you said, "you should supplement your proposal with a proposal for a new speaker of parliament". Mr. Nikolic, you will confirm, I hold that telling the truth is very important to you. Last night, we completed a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs in the conclusion that it would be good for the Serbian Parliament to have a single debate on these matters today and to make decisions. I will not repeat the explanation I gave, it is absolutely impossible to vote on the DS proposal if the assembly makes a decision that Tomislav Nikolic will remain Parliament's president. There may be a single debate. Mr. President, you will now essentially decide, and I will formally do it; if you do not stay with what you said last night, I will withdraw this point, as an authorised promoter. If you think what you thought last night at 10 p.m. today at 10 p.m., that it's a good idea for the motion for Parliament's president to be completed, then I think we could move on to decisions, because of course neither you nor I can decide on behalf of the MPs sitting here, then they will vote whether the proposals I put here have a majority here or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u838	Mr. Petrovic, since you called me, yes, I said all that yesterday, you thought you were very wise. I could have told you to jump into the well, and I think I told you you jumped into that well. Therefore, this proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be included in the agenda. Not only a proposal for a united debate, but a proposal to elect anyone for the speaker of the assembly while the assembly has a president. The moment my function stops before the time I was elected, the session will be led by the oldest vice president, try him. As long as I'm president of the National Assembly, you know, I'm just a moral liability... I want most things to be moral in my life. It was just morale that made me put in a motion for my resolution, because he wasn't put up with an emergency procedure, he couldn't be in the agenda at all. You don't care about that, that first violation of my Rules of Procedure, which is why I'm even being discussed. You know very well how to submit a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly. Even the provisions on inclusion under the urgent procedure of the motion to be submitted during the session itself do not apply to the president of the National Assembly at all, judges, prosecutors, the government are mentioned. None of us who took part in the work of the Rules of Procedure thought that someone urgently needed to be appointed president of the National Assembly. I'll decide when my function will stop. You know it'll be today or tomorrow, we'll see. Really, I feel so alive that I don't let you discuss who's gonna be president if I don't. It is absolutely impossible for me to include this proposal, not just the second part of the proposal, but the first part, for the Assembly to include in the agenda the election of the new president of the Assembly. Mr Petrovic, by the terms of the Rules of Procedure, that is absolutely impossible. You have time during the session, I've already told you well-intentionedly, this first I didn't, this I told you well-intentioned, the government can't be chosen, it's not right to be elected without a elected president. So if my mandate stops, you have time to submit a proposal, the assembly has no president, you submit a proposal to elect a new president, it enters the agenda, you elect a new president, and the government takes an oath before him. I don't see any other option, except to make me don't exist physically now. I'm really the president of the National Assembly, you didn't like it when you chose me. As long as I am President of the National Assembly, I will respect the Rules of Procedure to the extent possible. I now inform you that I refuse to put your proposal on the agenda to elect a new president of the Assembly and that the debate on the termination of the position of the National Assembly president and the election of a new president be united. I refer you to business provisions that you can exercise your right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u839	Mr. Nikolic, there's no need to refuse. You can make a decision as you feel you should. At this point, I will withdraw the proposal that I made and say that there were more people who were at that meeting besides you and me, it may be that you didn't mean what you said, but I think that all those who had had a clear belief last night that it was necessary for the Serbian Parliament to find a good and opportunistic way to find a way to in these few days that are ahead of us, and were prescribed by the Constitutional Law, to come to the decisions that were needed primarily for the citizens of Serbia, but also for our country, and to get to the point that we have all the legitimate institutions that are necessary in order for us to be able to defend our national and national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u840	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am feeling uncomfortable and a little ashamed and ashamed of the citizens of Serbia for being together with my colleagues from our parliamentary group forced me to participate in this chain of chariots, in these games without limits which some parties insult in a kind of way for the citizens of Serbia. That's the darkness. This is a matter of responsibility and irresponsibility. All Serbian citizens have been turned into victims and hostages. It's not true that, for some of the higher goals and interests, all of this is done. This is not the goal of Serbia or its citizens. Mr. Nikolic, you've hurt yourself, and Nenad Canak mentioned it, the provision of article 85. Rules of Procedure regarding the time of the session. You can do it on other days, not the ones Mr. Canak mentioned, on Saturdays when circumstances exist, but you can't schedule a session at 8:30 because the proposal was submitted at 8:00 yesterday. What if the proposal was tabled at 1:00 last night, so tonight's session starts at 2:00? She has to start at 10.00 hours, she has to start before 1800 hours, then vote and decide whether to extend after 1800 hours. It's clearly in the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. Unless you think the state of emergency you mentioned started the other day, but as far as I'm concerned, it didn't start. Mr. Nikolic, I mentioned the other day that "who with the devil's pumpkin is planting, his head is pounding." You always have to listen to those sayings. And now our friends from the DS, and they're referred to by this proverb, this country has got to establish a final order. And those who don't want order, let them say it, we don't want order, we want the ringishipil, every day it spins, come in, get out of that ringishipil. But it's not a state. The worst is when those who are destroying the state appear here as protectors of the state. The state defends itself by voting for those things that are real and that are possible, by exposing themselves from these reserves of its criticism, but by offering an alternative. If this isn't voted, then what will be voted? Nothing. For another year, you'll sleep, and another ten years, and another 100 years, like a thorn rose waiting for the prince to wake her up. It's been a fairy tale, this is a real life. Take responsibility for yourself, as real politicians in a real country, or, brother, get off the political scene, go and sleep in a fairy tale. That's what he said about this speaker Zoran Djindjic on January 28th 2003. Remember his words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u842	Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Cvetanović, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u843	I won't mention it to you, Mr. Micunovic. You're welcome to come out. You know, when someone comes out, they talk to him first. I came forward a long time ago, and maybe the reason I came forward no longer exists is because I really wanted to point out to Mr Petrovic that we don't mind putting this proposal on the agenda, but after this debate and any vote by the President of the Assembly or if the president of the National Assembly resigns. I agree that Serbia should have the speaker of the assembly and unless it is Tomislav Nikolic, of course you should put this issue on the agenda to the vote of the new president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the new parliamentary majority. Of course, it is not a good proposal to discuss the unification, because it is not possible to ask for the resolution or destruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one prime minister and propose a new prime minister and unite the debate. It's just not possible. That's why I think we've taken this proposal off the agenda. The Socialist Party of Serbia will not obstruct deadlines, in terms of possible parliamentary obstruction, which is otherwise an entirely legitimate part of political life. You know well that here you can discuss until Tuesday at midnight; of course, there are people who are in the mood. The president of the National Assembly could also propose for his resolution to put on the agenda Wednesday, because there are no business obligations. You know very well that your condition for choosing a new government was for Tomislav Nikolic to no longer be the new president of the National Assembly, which would then lead to the disbanding of the Assembly and new elections. I would ask you to understand that what you did Monday night is now being done by some other MPs. This is a parliamentary struggle and reporting to the Rules of Procedure. You well remember how many times you have appeared in the Rules of Procedure and how long it was until the start of the election of Tomislav Nikolic. I just don't know how Mr Batic can begin this session until the state negotiating team has filed a report on the negotiations in Vienna. Anyway, I agree with that, and I'm staying on what I said was a topic for another session, and I really think that's something to talk about. I only mentioned this because of the reasons why one of them appeared for the word in the Rules of Procedure at the time and the reasons why others appear today. Don't be mad at each other, let's keep the level of political culture so we can fight here. I suggest that the President of the Assembly limit that the Assembly can't last longer than five o'clock in the morning. I already said she's promising, but anyway, we're not gonna obstruct the deadlines. I propose that we now replace the wording of the Rules of Procedure with the debate on this topic of the agenda and let everyone declare their reasons for and against it. Let everyone explain. In politics, of course, everything is allowed, it's just a question of how much and whether opinions can really change at the speed of the clock. Is that exactly how you're going to explain it today in the election for the new president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I think the reasons why Tomislav Nikolic was elected and the reasons why he should be resolved should be very clearly indicated. I understand the policy of parties who voted against Tomislav Nikolic, but I think this is about global changes in the political course. Each party runs its own policy. We don't care about that. What is the policy of these parties when you are able one day to make a coalition with one, and the other day a coalition with the other, the third day a coalition with the third. What's this about? Is it possible by which member? Do you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, think we shouldn't attack your political allies or opponents? What do you care who we attack, if you have something to say, come out for this pay phone and don't throw it out of my place? I didn't throw anything at any of you. I'm not putting hooligans on either one of you. There are other ways for you to win, not with your hooligans. It's for the grandmothers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u844	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u845	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to report to the esteemed Mr. Dusan Bayatovic. I am sure that the gentleman is well informed and is not in legal error, but I simply cannot believe that Mr Dusan Bayatovic trusts Dusan Petrovic and Milos Aligrudic. I really can't believe it. I'll quote what Mr. Dusan Petrovic said just a few days ago: "Mr. Aligrudić, that you and I don't understand it is a well-known thing. We haven't understood each other since 2003, and we haven't understood each other since the Socialists voted for you. We're getting less and less understood and, as far as I can tell, in the months to come, we'll never understand each other. It's your political decision. So it's no problem that you and I don't understand, I'm used to it, the citizens of Serbia get used to it. "Really, Mr. Bayatovic, I couldn't believe you could have trusted these gentlemen in front of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u846	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word, so Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u847	Mr. Nikolic, we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and serious injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So that there are no free-minded and boundless creative interpretations by some who, in the title of their party, have a "d" and act like democracy, I will read the provision that has been read for the public. I am absolutely sure that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will understand it much better and better than Dusan Petrovic. By the way, let me remind you, Mr Nikolic, Dusan Petrovic is calling in his act for Articles 9, 10 and Article 30. Rules of Procedure. Article 30(1) reads - in case of termination of office of the President of the National Assembly before the end of the time he was elected. At 20.40 p.m. today, no one lost their position as president of the National Assembly. Mr. Nikolic, this is how the signatories of this act practically announce the assassination, because they think you are no longer the president of the Assembly. In order for citizens to understand what elemental illiteracy is about, the second sentence of the first position is - the National Assembly will begin at the next session, and no later than the next session, the election procedure of the National Assembly president, in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Thus, Article 30 of Article 1 can apply unless the National Assembly has a National Assembly president. You're in a hurry, they'd like to skip, they'd like to create a picture of how the National Assembly doesn't have a president. Since it's impossible, then they say, let's vote on both the resolution and the election and unify the debate and put it all in one mix. I remind you, Mr. President, Article 30 has a position of 2nd, which says, "If the president of the National Assembly has ceased his term before the time he was elected, the duty of the National Assembly president, until the election of the new president, shall be held by the oldest vice president of the National Assembly", possibly Mr. Mrkonjic. I now conclude from this that they have something against Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, they do not allow him to be the vice president who will chair the National Assembly when a new president of the National Assembly is discussed. I don't know what a brilliant mind it is that has imagined to unite the debate and discuss for the benefit of the existing president of the National Assembly and to convince you that it shouldn't be resolved, and at the same time we need to discuss that you are not voting for a new one, because we have another president of the National Assembly. That's possible in your crown. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have demonstrated that it is possible, but it will not be possible anymore. Not everything in politics can happen as you agreed, you sat down and thought it could be done. You could have done this while raping the National Assembly in 2001 and 2002, when thought proposals came, and I had the opportunity to hear a thought proposal earlier, where it is said – we violated the Rules of Procedure, obviously this proposal is a violation, but to continue to violate it. It's not DOS in power. What was used as an argument, where you are not called to violate the Rules of Procedure, but to encourage you to commit a breach of the Rules of Procedure? It's like this: MP groups formed. It was not the president of the National Assembly that formed five, six, seven parliamentary groups, but the MPs themselves organised and formed, because it was so prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Who broke the Rules of Procedure here? He says the president's choice was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, did we vote on that? As I recall, we also voted on all the complaints of the Rules of Procedure's injuries at that session and later on on a proposal to elect a president. What's it worth? The man drove the film that it was a democratic standard, and apparently it was a political opinion that, according to Micunovic's theory of evolution, had been crossed. It's familiar to you, first it was Micunovic, then the Democratic Party, then amoebe, and then some others. That's familiar. This side over here, it's actually amoebe. You couldn't do it together, so you split up... Mr. Krassic, please... I'm not going to suggest something that would logically go after this injury when someone forced you to violate the Rules of Procedure. The same one suggested voting on whether or not you violated the Rules of Procedure. I draw your attention to what kind of strokes they are, they have nothing to do with politics, it's about the mental feller of individual proposals. I don't understand how a man with a mental feller can defend what every reasonable man condemns. From logic you would have received a unit from Micunović if you had suggested this and were his student. I see here that he's escaped, too, and he's ashamed, too, probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u848	I ask the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party not to discuss this proposal that was withdrawn by the motionary anymore. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal to dismiss the duties of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, the National Envoy of Tomislav Nikolic, who submitted 128 MPs. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. I'd like this second part of the script if we could finish, since I'd like to leave... But not if that's how it works. Does the rapporteur want to explain the proposal to relieve the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Tomislav Nikolic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u849	I don't need more than a minute for this. So, the matter is very simple, political parties whose MPs of this proposal have reached a political agreement on forming a parliamentary majority and a political majority in this parliament, which is practically going towards reaching an agreement on forming a government. Of course, this proposal was given accordingly, in order to make an adequate change at the post of Parliament's president. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u850	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, I'd like to ask you, if this is the agenda point, to wait just for another formality to be carried out and to get a word after that, please. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party, whose representative for this point is the National MP Aleksandar Vukic – one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party – one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus – 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 19 minutes and 12 seconds, Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democratic Party – 13 minutes and 12 seconds, The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, one national MP - 5 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I ask Mr. Engineer, Builder, Milutin Mrkonjic to take charge of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u851	Thank you. Gentlemen, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. I'm sorry, I'm not ready, so while I'm playing. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u852	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of article 104. Rules of Procedure, who would it be good to hold onto? You can't just do that, Mr. Aligrudic and the new parliamentary majority. Not after what we've been through in the assembly on Mondays and Tuesdays. Article 104 obliges you to respect the dignity of this assembly and MPs, and I, on behalf of our parliamentary group, defend this dignity, because I think that this is how I protect the interests of our voters. You cannot simply and easily offer a senseless explanation for the shift of the president of the assembly. We voted against the election of Tomislav Nikolic. We fought, to the extent that we could, against that political idea. We said that the reasons you instructed then, and when I say you, I mean the parliamentary majority at the time, are hypocritical and false. Also today, we consider the hypocritical and false reasoning that you offered us at the beginning of the debate on the replacement of Tomislav Nikolic – "the parliamentary majority has been formed". Does the parliamentary majority have an opinion on the speaker of parliament they want to change? Does the parliamentary majority have an opinion on the work of the president of parliament during the previous three or four days? If that's what he thinks, let him tell us. If the parliamentary majority thinks the president of the assembly is changing because today most of them are different than five days ago, and it doesn't matter if it's a different relationship to the policy that he was elected to do then, then I must tell you that you are insulting me and our parliamentary group. Tomislav Nikolic was elected because the then parliamentary majority took care of the state, she said, took care of respect for democratic rules and procedures and thought about Kosovo. That's when we told you that these arguments were unacceptable. The fact that someone feels bad today because Vojislav Kostunica cheated on him, and that's where I think about you, Mr Nikolic, and the SRS, and you from the SPS, that's your personal problem, that's the problem with your leadership. Your voters did not believe Kostunica on January 21st and therefore voted against him. We are all now hostages of the blackmail of a man who symbolizes a system of values in which politics is not important, a system of values in which the state and its interests are not cared, but exclusively about survival in power. That is why parliamentary majority will change, depending on Kostunica's need, as the future prime minister, behind whom the parliamentary majority gathered. I'm sorry the Democratic Party gave up its candidate for Parliament's president. I told you, the Rules of Procedure either exists or is gone. There are no Rules of Procedures in this House, as there is no democracy in Serbia. We have to fight for a new system of values first, and then call on the Rules of Procedure. So what you've done is humiliation. Tomislav Nikolic was never a man whose choice confirms a democratic rule, because we had already made it clear in the previous debate, we saw him as a symbol of that policy which is the anti-democracy, which made Serbia a totalitarian country, as a symbol of that policy that arrested 40,000 students, who banned the media, as a symbol of that policy that triggered five wars, as a symbol of that policy that lost Kosovo, and with it you think you are defending Kosovo. You're replacing him today. I can think of whatever I want about Tomislav Nikolic, as he does about me, but as he sits as Parliament Speaker, go ahead, come out and give a decent explanation for the president's shift, not what you're doing. Do you defend the state today or did you defend it on Monday? What are the reasons for the president's shift? These aren't the reasons. "The parliamentary majority has been formed." About what? About some new policy, so the president of the Assembly is an obstacle to that policy? She'll tell us. Have you changed your stance on Kosovo or is he identical to Nikolic? Have you changed your attitude towards priorities that were crucial when Nikolic was elected, which is rounding up some institutions and institutional life that is a prerequisite for the country's respectable attitude towards this finalisation of the process of determining Kosovo's final status? Doesn't that matter anymore? Do we not need the President of Parliament today because we need the prime minister more? If we are to choose between Kostunica and Nikolic, our view is that we do not need either of them, nor are we needed today, they were not needed on Monday. As far as we're concerned, nothing will change. I told you, the Rules of Procedure either he does or he doesn't. He's been gone so far. So I repeat once again, the Democratic Party has made a mistake withdrawing the proposal. We were prepared to support your idea in the debate, ready to vote for the new president of the assembly, because we think it's better to have the President of the Assembly, but all this has so far had nothing to do with those motives that are being talked about so much here, which Mr. Canak spoke of. If we've been the hostages of one man's politics and his blackmail so far, it won't be like that in the future. Let this be a good parliamentary debate at a bad time, not only on deadlines, but also on the fact that you've so crazyd this country in the last three months all together, that today you expect us to believe that you're doing all this to help the country. Why didn't you do that when it was clear to everyone that it was going to happen, on January 21st at 1:00 p.m.? Scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u853	Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u854	I just want to point out, according to the Rules of Procedure, what Cedomir Jovanovic was talking about. We shouldn't be developing such an atmosphere here that when we talk about some of our interpartial relations, we say some things that harm us as a country and a people. Mr Jovanovic, of course, mentioned what he mentioned almost continuously this time, because it is part of his policy – but I also hope that this is not the policy of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, given the majority, will be chosen – which is that some former policy has caused five wars in the area of the previous Yugoslavia. Sir, what are you throwing out of the pre-final order? I'd like to remind you to tell me what the policy of today's state leadership differs from the policy that has been led, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. Do you advocate that Kosovo and Metohija be an integral part of Serbia? Does your coalition advocate that you should defend Kosovo and Metohija? Wars in the former Yugoslavia were created by secession of the former Yugoslav republics. They were not challenged by the Serbian people and not challenged by the Serbian state. After all, you all welcomed the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which declared Serbia not guilty of the case in Srebrenica, namely that Serbia did not help or genocide against other peoples in BiH. Please, if we don't love each other, let's at least show that we love each other more than we love our country and our people. You don't think by spitting on the late Milosevic or anyone else, or Kostunica, who is now Prime Minister, or President Tadic, anyway, or if you speak words that are not heard in Belgrade, but are mildly heard in The Hague and elsewhere, you help your people and the state? So I'm asking you to keep the debate we have in mind between the parties, but let's still take care of it. An insult to the Serbian people, over which the greatest genocide has been committed in history, which has been expelled from Croatia, for the Serb people over whom crimes have been committed in BiH, the Serb people who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, is indeed an insult to say that some policies have caused wars. If we want to talk about guilt, neither are those from abroad who haven't helped make these wars happen. So once again, I appeal and warn that we are not expressing the things used by our greatest opponents and enemies in the attacks on our country and our country. So what does Carla del Ponte speak of worse than Cedomir Jovanovic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? She's, in some words, even softer. I think it's sad. If you hate someone who was in power, don't hate Serbia and the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u855	Mr. Wolfie has a word. Is it part of the search? That's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, when we elected Tomislav Nikolic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I said, and I did not agree, that the whole of Serbia is looking forward to this moment and that we hope that after that moment Serbia will be better. It seems to me that everyone was well noticed that Serbia and its citizens were never more joyful and had never expected again, regardless of how much they could do from the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or not as much as the citizens expected. This first and great victory over DOS authorities showed light at the end of the tunnel and showed, for a few days, what freedom looks like, just like when our ancestors fought the occupiers, so they welcome the release of some territory, so they lose it again, but the little time they spend on free territory is better, better and more expensive than any other, and it is always an important link in the fight to the ultimate freedom. When Tomislav Nikolic was elected, the general hysteria of certain media, thieving and criminalised, such as B92, which together with Mladjan Dinkic has robbed the state of Serbia for ten and a half million euros so far, and we will see exactly how many years behind bars the court will have to spend both Dinkic and Veran Matic for thieving and crime. So, they started out in the most intense and stupidest campaign I've ever seen in my life. I will remind you, respected citizens of Serbia and dear peoples MPs, of what these criminals have invented together – from the fact that the stock market is falling because Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly... Now I have to tell you one thing, very important: they have brought in a certain Rakočević, known in the Belgrade charter, otherwise he is a Montenegrin separatist, one of the worst criminals and speculators from the Belgrade Stock Exchange, to say that Toma Nikolic is guilty of the stock market crash. Right behind that, Toma Nikolic was guilty of killing those girls, so they never apologized to him for all of it; so he was guilty of what he didn't know; so he was guilty even of what he said was one of the three possible solutions and a state of emergency. Imagine, worst of all, being attacked by those who have seduced the state of emergency. Tonight, dear friends, we're listening here from this pay phone of some unfortunate man who has seduced the state of emergency, arrested, beaten the Serbia he wanted, when he wanted and how much he wanted, not because of Kosovo and Metohija, but because of their authority. Arrested and did what they wanted. They dared to attack Tomislav Nikolic because he reads the Constitution, because they read nothing. Now, that's what we've been listening to for a few days. It is for nothing that the experts tell them. The stock market has nothing to do with what you say. And then it started -- the European Union can't accept, they're worried, they're worried about the United States. Who's worried, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, now you'll hear. Javier Solana, whose role is the "merciful angel" in our country, is very well known. He killed more people than Hitler in the bombing on April 6th. So much so that you know about the role of Javier Solana, whom Petrovic and Aligrudic love so much. Unconnected to what killed them then, this Solana didn't stop at that. Javier Solana seeks Kosovo and Metohija every day. This new government that is to be formed, they say, is eager to join. We welcomed them with enthusiasm. Who, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, welcomed them with enthusiasm? Those who signed the Euro-American Initiative today to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. That's why they need that government. I'll quote Mr. Aligrudic. I will not address you as your coalition partner, Mr. Sutanovac, speaks to you without any respect. Mr. Aligrudic, I quote, Mr. Chairman, only four days ago he said the following thing: "Mr. Petrovic, the difference between you and us in what we did not agree on is obviously at a serious political level. "That serious political level has passed in three days. "It is certainly reflected in one sector that has been personally covered, which is the security sector, but it is obvious that the difference is not in personal approach, but in the end. Also, it is obvious that someone among you has this intention to carry out dictatorships outside this country and someone who thinks that the ministries, the composition of our ministries, the composition of our government and our security system are being arranged outside this country." Is that what you said, Mr. Aligrudic? Shame on you, Mr. Aligrudic, shame on you for the inconvenience you say you don't have. I will now, ladies and gentlemen, have the discomfort to explain to you what is and how everything is agreed, not in the interest of the Serbian Radical Party, not in the interest of Tomislav Nikolic, but in the interest of the Serbian state. The negotiations led by representatives of the SRS and the DSS discussed how it was necessary to protect the country, above all, Kosovo and Metohija, how it is necessary to support the Russian side and sides of all those who want to preserve our territory and how we must resist Solana's, Rehn and US pressures to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Then it is said -- the most important thing is that we have a strong Parliament president, that the Assembly starts working and that we can then talk about Kosovo and Metohija at any time. Tomislav Nikolic, with great discomfort, accepted it and said we are political opponents, but if it is the state of Serbia, I accept it. Then there was something that Mr. Aligrudic didn't want to talk about in the media, he didn't want to talk about tonight either, but I'll tell you. Then Tomislav Nikolic, and here is another man who attended these talks, so he can tell if I am lying at this point, the DSS representatives said the next thing – Tomislav Nikolic, since we are in everything different from these DS traitors, "yellow", there is only one change of chance of making some government with them. Even if that happens, Tomislav Nikolic, you don't want to leave the office of Parliament at all cost of your life. You have to stay in that place because of Serbia, because of the future, because of Kosovo and Metohija and everything else, and we will never apply for your shift. Those are the words of the DSS representative. What are you, Mr. Aligruditch? It's good to hear this from the citizens of Serbia. I'll tell you what you are - liars and cheaters, Mr. Aligruditch. I listened to it with my ears, Mr. Aligruditch. Here's Dacic and let him say if I'm lying or telling the truth. What's changed, Mr. Aligrudic? Where's the morale? Did you go to Djindjic's logic - to whom it is moral - to go to church, or would you force us to sow peanuts, as Djindjic said? Is that morality, Mr. Aligrudic? The old proverb says: shame is longer than life. Your shame will last forever, and your entire party, for what you're doing tonight. Technical Prime Minister Kostunica says tonight -- I did this because of national interests, Kosovo and Metohija cannot be welcomed, the debate, Ahtisaari, without a government. That's what he told us six days ago, with the same explanation, that he didn't call us traitors tonight, and they called them all kinds of names. Mr. Aligrudic, since Mr. Petrovic warned him that he mentioned treason to him, casts out – yes, yes, treason, rather than what. And then the following thing happened: Javier Solana said Boris Tadic must be in charge of all security services. Mr Aligrudic reads that a statement has arrived in Beta, Javier Solana's statement; ten times Aligrudic comes out and, as his strongest weapon against DS, reads that that's exactly what Solana is looking for, and that's why they don't give it to them. And today, ladies and gentlemen, that is tomorrow when we choose, Boris Tadic is the head of all security services in Serbia and there is no Rade Bulatovic, because Carla del Ponte asked for his shift and everything was listened to as Solana asked. Who's the traitor now, Mr. Aligruditch? Is it just them, or have you joined them, Mr. Aligrudic? Oh, my Mr. Aligruditch! Let's see that interest of the state and the people. He told us "the Duke of Meridian Bank" that they would look forward most to the election of Tomislav Nikolic (i.e. "the Duke of Meridian Bank") Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Look how he's lying. He's lying. He's lying. The formation of the democratic bloc's government is most enjoyed by the Cypriot separatists and their supporters in the United States and the European Union. No one is looking forward to the government anymore, no one is looking forward to it in Serbia, no one is looking forward to it in Russia, no other country that supports the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. If I didn't lie, Mr. Djelic, I'd read three statements, and you guess which one is whose; in the end I'll tell you which one is whose, you won't notice the difference, they're the same. One says, "I am glad that the government of the democratic bloc is formed, because it will work well with the government of independent Kosovo." Another statement: "The choice of Tomislav Nikolic is a political past and a bad idea to solve problems in the Balkans." The third statement: "The election of Tomislav Nikolic is harmful and progressive forces must oppose it." That you said that the first Tadic, the second Ceku, the third Ram Manaj or vice versa, are all the same, and the owners of the statement are, in this order: Agim Ceku, Ram Manaj, Boris Tadic. It doesn't make any difference. Now, Bozidar Djelic, "the Duke of Meridian Bank", you people are looking forward to Shiparian separatists, and they are afraid of us because they know that we love Serbia, because they know that we would not give Kosovo and Metohija, as you will. This is black on white, no game, no lies. As your candidate, the godless, for the speaker of the assembly, says you are not ashamed, we will not endanger Serbia's European future because of Kosovo and Metohija. Did your dad and mom give you Kosovo and Metohija, you decide if it's going to be Kosovo and Metohija or not, or anyone in this room? Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. But that's why you form a government, so form it that way, because you need to get as far away from Serbs and Serbia as possible. Look further, all of a sudden everything is wonderful, everything is booming, today the euros that people have, the actions people have been shopping for, the wealth of Serbia today, there is no more interest to return to large loans, the miracle, they're rich as soon as they've heard of you, and only the electricity has accumulated 15% as soon as it's heard of a democratic block, only the drugs are expensive. Is that also Tomislav Nikolic's fault, or your incompetent authority? Your incompetent authority. And on the thieving media, which steals money together with you, and millions of euros in Serbian citizens, it is not possible to hear about it, it cannot be said. Now, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Aligrudic, "Miki Mouse", who is the personal treasurer of Serbia's greatest criminal, Bogoljub Karic, is the reason you're replacing an honest and honorable host tonight; is that the criminal who has 11m euros in Meridian Bank, are you talking about him, is that why you're replacing Tomislav Nikolic tonight, whom you haven't found these millions, or that Mickey Mouse? They say we're back on normal track. In this country, consistency with corruption, lies and fraud has become the essence of political action. If you can only rule, in any way, it doesn't matter how you explain that power of yours. Today some people called me and said, "What's their fault, Toma, people who don't understand all the games." Then I thought about what they resented about Tommy Nikolic, what they could blame him for. Is it that Toma Nikolic, even though she has no obligation... They are right, therefore, that those who say that they are in violation of the Rules of Procedure in order to make an appointment, that they may be able to change it early; imagine them making an appointment in time for their shift, let alone cancel before the time. Toma Nikolic could schedule them for Tuesday, and if they couldn't choose the government, they couldn't do anything. Thomas Nikolic did not do it, for unlike them, he is an honorable man, and he who is an honorable man has been divorced and born, after him the glory remains. Is he resented that they can go out, say stupid things, say anything, they attack him for a state of emergency; it means, exactly, that a man hits his head against the wall and doesn't know what to do with the pain anymore, those who have introduced the state of emergency, destroyed Serbia, arrested everyone alive, they attack Tom Nikolic for a state of emergency. And Toma Nikolic is not answering anything. He lets them say anything they can think of, as it comes to mind. He showed them tolerance, what democracy is. Was that a problem with Tom Nikolic? It's not that either. I've been thinking about what to say to people, what to tell them why they're replacing him, and I know why you're replacing him, and it's good for the citizens of Serbia to hear it. You are replacing Tomislav Nikolic for nothing else, but because of the fact that in Serbia's destruction, the only institutional obstacle was Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament Speaker. There's no other reason. I was told by some friends, when I came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – were you perhaps naive when you believed Vojislav Kostunica? I stopped in a moment and thought about what to say without being stupid and false. I said, maybe we are, if it's a sin. We believed not for ourselves, we believed for Serbia, because we wanted to give Serbia, even through the Serbian Parliament, hope. The hope lasted as short as it took them to arrange for Solana and Solana's Corporal to hand over the keys to the service of the security of the Republic of Serbia, just how long it took them, a day, two or three, no more. Now, that's what the citizens of Serbia and the people's MPs, which is our sin -- we didn't know they were such frauds. Now to all those who asked us, who once, if you remember, were trying to criticize Vojislav Seselj, so what we said, now you see how right we were. If we had stuck to what we knew about the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, we wouldn't be in this situation today. We showed good will not for ourselves but for Serbia. We also showed Serbia that Vojislav Kostunica is the same thing as Boris Tadic, the same thing as Mladjan Dinkic, and that is why we will have to clean them all up with an iron political broom from Serbia's political scene and establish democracy. I have one thing to say tonight. Do you have anything to say to the Democratic Party? (Chairman: Please stick to the time. Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, I will, with pleasure. So, I've been thinking about how a man feels at a time like this, whether it's anger, anger, grief, joy, what it feels, what it's all about, when someone in this way cheats on you and does things like this against your country. What can you tell people, what can you tell the citizens of Serbia? As you can see, you've never seen the braver, braver and more smiling MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Do you want me to tell you why? Because the feeling of pride is what is most important and dominant in us. We are proud of Tomislav Nikolic, both the Serbian Radical Party and what we did, of what Vojislav Seselj was right when he spoke about Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. You can't deny us that pride, and that's why you can't beat us. That's why you'll never beat us, because thieves, criminals and frauds have never been above Serbia. That's why Serbia has to win. So, Tomislav Nikolic, you belong to the glory, and these frauds belong to the wasteland of history. Thank the citizens of Serbia who supported Tom Nikolic. Thank you to those who are sad tonight. Let them not grieve, let them be proud of their Tomislav Nikolic and their Serbian Radical Party, and we will know this gang to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u857	He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we support the idea of the replacement of Tomislav Nikolic because of what he did before the election for Parliament's president and for what he did for just a few days of his parliamentary presidency. The results of both work and work are devastating. What we think is also very important is the indication of the different motives that exist at the moment behind the LDP's parliamentary will to vote for the removal of Tomislav Nikolic and the parliamentary will of the parliamentary majority that submitted the request. As much as we try to distance the Socialists and radicals from the newly established parliamentary majority, people in Serbia clearly recognise the breadth of the parliamentary majority, which is bigger than the one that has submitted an initiative here today to replace Tomislav Nikolic. That's what's wrong. It is important in this debate to say why Tomislav Nikolic should not have been Parliament's president and what it is that he did badly as Parliament's president to change today. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who are you to say should be changed? ) Otherwise, the impression will be that Tomislav Nikolic is being replaced because Vojislav Kostunica today thinks that someone better than Tomislav Nikolic can lead Serbia's parliament today. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: It is bad, because he sees nothing.) Such conviction is wrong and not true. The fact that the radicals were naive, which today does not cry over Tomislav Nikolic's shift, but out of luck because he was Parliament's president, does not overexcitate anyone in Serbia. Neither Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of parliament because of the interests of Serbian citizens nor because of the interest of Serbian citizens will be removed today. That's the problem, dear friends from the Democratic Party. We can talk about this during a debate that will mark the next days, above all, about the election of a new government. But blackmail must not become an acceptable method of making such large decisions as those related to the election of parliament's president, the removal of parliament's president, to form a government. At this point, it is clear that blackmail was also the other model of political action of the current and future Prime Minister. He blackmailed Serbia in June 2001, when he called the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal a coup, and the government called it a continuous coup technique. He blackmailed Serbia on March 12th, 2003, when he sought to form a concentration government, instead of punishing criminals and murderers Zoran Djindjic. He's been blackmailing her for the past three years and blackmailing her today. The parliamentary majority elected by Tomislav Nikolic and the parliamentary majority mentioned in the motion for resolution agree to blackmail. The only positive fact of this debate is, in fact, this political truth – the way to the shift of Vojislav Kostunica leads to the release of its policy. The only value of Tomislav Nikolic's election as speaker is actually in this. We said that the hypocritical reasons that are cited as reasons that have a crucial impact on the choice of Tomislav Nikolic. It's supposed to be the establishment of a state. The state cannot be established by the personification of the policy that destroyed that state. Then, democratic rules of conduct -- there is no democracy in Serbia, must first be established, and only then will those rules be respected. She's not here today either, because we are referring to a Rules of Procedure that we ourselves are violating as parliament. It is also mentioned in Kosovo today that Tomislav Nikolic is being replaced for national and national reasons, not because the precondition for the formation of this new parliamentary majority is actually the shift of Tomislav Nikolic. We asked the promoter. All right, maybe our criticism helped. Perhaps the chaos that occurred in Serbia after the election of Tomislav Nikolic affected you, the stock market that Vukic is talking about, fears and nightmares that are surviving people from that moment on, is part of our society; and some are looking forward to it. But, then say, we were wrong and we were wrong when we said that the President of the Republic was a spy, sorry, Tadic, we were wrong, anyway, we accept responsibility; we were wrong when we said that DS Quislin Party, that LDP people are ballistics, here we are now saying that and we are taking political responsibility. This is how modern Serbia is created, where there is order. Do you know the outcome of what you're doing? Tomislav Nikolic will for a long time be the only political figure with the political image of a person who can be the speaker of parliament, with whom you can disagree and you can ask him to withdraw immediately and to punish himself and get out, because he does not respect Zoran Djindjic, but you will put us in a position to choose a government without parliament president, you do not care about parliament. That's what to say. The way you stand in power right now is devastating. What we must do together here in the Assembly, as representatives of the citizens who have chosen us – mutual conflicts and conflicts to keep within 250 of us, do not transfer to a divided society anyway. Because these people living in Serbia have identical interests: they want a peaceful and normal life, a secure salary, an economic perspective, which they don't see today, wants Kosovo to be part of Serbia. They also cannot push their heads into the sand and turn away from the reality that Kosovo today represents differently. It's all that binds us, the fact that we're making a decision on behalf of the country. The way this decision is made is disastrous. No one can understand this political lie anymore and agree with that. If to some extent the means can justify the goal, to this extent, he can't do it anymore. You've gone too far with what you've been doing so far. The arrangements are mentioned here. You were supposed to talk about these arrangements during the debate. You should have said yes, we met, we talked, the prime minister told us one thing, we answered another. The fact that today someone does not respect the agreements does not obligate us to accept it as an argument why Tomislav Nikolic should not be removed. You met on your own, you ran politics on your own, you cheated on all Serbian citizens with the Constitution, you've been cheating on them for the past few years, defending them against those consequences of politics that Serbia cannot defend itself from, a policy that was implemented during the 1990s. The only way to solve the political crisis that the country is in was to call the elections. We didn't have the strength to do that. We'll see if what we're doing today is a mistake. Our view is that this is exactly how I think it is a mistake to withdraw Dulic's candidacy, because radicals are called to the Rules of Procedure, because they are calling for law and order, those who are evidence of law and order insubordination. We will support the request for Tomislav Nikolic's replacement, it is good that it is removed. The problem is that it will only be a short-term relief, or all of the positive effects that follow the fact that it will be removed from the post of Parliament's president, from a function that he has done unworthyly and unworthyly, regretting that Serbia is not a Russian province, will be short-term. That's what you should say in this debate. If the president of parliament is being replaced today, then it must be spoken honestly about the reasons for the shift. We want parliament to have its president and we are ready to support the Democratic Party candidate, that is also to say. But we expect the DS candidates to look at us with respect that must exist against the fact that we have been voted by 220,000 citizens of this country. They voted for one policy. We have formulated this policy through three basic directions, which are not the expression of our blackmail of the Democratic Party, but of our desire to start with you finally changing this country. A candidate for the president of parliament who wants LDP support must understand our views. We ask him very clear answers to the question of whether he is ready to form a lustration commission and thus contribute to the profiling of civil, modern, democratic Serbia, the one in which the political account of responsibility, as it turns out in any other job, the policy of war, the policy of dealing with its own citizens, the policy that led us to the indictee's bench of the International Court of Justice, the bench we were sentenced to not because we committed genocide but because we did not prevent it, that we did not sanction those who did it, Mr Dacic. We expect that in response from the candidate for the president of the assembly. The second answer we want to hear is whether it is ready to launch before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a parliamentary debate on the amendment of the Constitution, which was brought by a two-day vote, with citizens being stolen from the vote. A third position, also very important for the LDP, is a question of Parliament's readiness to finally start defining mechanisms that will establish a relationship between politics and business in Serbia as part of this institution. The same responsibility for this country has the leader of the largest party and director of the largest company. We do not want to fight against rich and successful people, but we do not agree to what has become the rule of political life in the country. We do not agree that someone is buying our policy because they have a personal interest in such a thing and that is what we want to say here in Parliament. That's what we want to talk about here. These are three conditions, three criteria which, in our opinion, define the new president of parliament as the president who will make the assembly different from what it has been for the past few years. Then we're willing to support ourselves, not to have someone else do this job for us, but to support the man we're going to work with together. As for the fate of the previous speaker of parliament, he is a representative of the big party; I think you, Mr Nikolic, have forgotten that this is not the first time that Vojislav Kostunica has deceived you. I hope it's the last one. Not because it is good for the SRS, but because it, as a carrier of the political values of Milosevic's era, must finally be brought into the position that Milosevic himself was in during 2000, in the position of politicians with which no one else wants to do anything because the result of this job is a shame for society and only the personal benefit of a single person. I haven't, Mr. Grouchy, taken all my time and I hope you'll appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u859	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Wolf, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that, frankly, I am very pleased that Cedomir Jovanovic supports Milos Aligrudic's initiative, to have everyone in one place, to make it clear to Serbia what is going on here tonight, that everyone knows that there is no difference between them and that they are on the same path of Euro-Atlantic integration, that we are about to drown in the Atlantic Ocean, and without Kosovo, what's the difference, it can. And to be president of the assembly, mother born! Mr. Jovanovic, I'm in no position to answer. I'm just sure when people listen to this, they can't trust their eyes or their ears to see that something's wrong with them, or their tone or their image. You give someone a lecture on human rights and freedoms. You who voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki; you who boast about the burning of the congregation and the lynching of the people. Everything you've done and done, you've done most directly against elemental human rights and freedoms. You'd like to deal with political opponents in the worst communist way. When I say communist, I don't want to hurt honest communists, who have many. But, brah, get back to your seat and sit tight. If the citizens didn't choose you not to cheat on them, then they chose you to sit here properly. Or you're being tightened by the hooligans, I don't know what's going on. I'm sorry, that's what Sutanovac said, I would never say that. Mr. Jovanovic, you are in a miraculous way able to see everything about as in a concave mirror. That you are talking about Kosovo and Metohija, about what we should be deprived of or should not be deprived of, accuse Aligrudic of being this spy or not being a spy. Unlike Aligrudic, I must say that I am proud to be a member of the Serbian Radical Party, with us it does not change. We were thinking what Aligrudic said on Monday, but that's what we're thinking tonight. As for ballistics, sitting in the LDP, that's not what Aligrudic said, it's me, and I'm proud to tell you the truth, because that's where the ballistics are fighting for an independent Kosovo. And that's my democratic right. (President: Thank you, Mr. Wolfie.) Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, time's up. ) So I don’t mind you putting your ideas on the line, but don’t mind that we stand up for different behaviors. In the end, I didn't understand the personal benefit thing, or I don't know what. Mr Nikolic came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia tonight alone, without escort, without any bodyguard, with his car. Who or what did you come here with? How many of them does it take to keep you from your friends? That's the difference, Mr. Jovanovic. In that Tomislav Nikolic, as a host, can bake good homemade brandy, which is free for neighbors, friends and all others, and your bottle of wine costs 4,000 euros, while our people have no bread to eat. That's the difference, Mr. Jovanovic. And in that. It's a question for Mr Aligrudic. How, Mr. Aligrudice, now? I understand everything, I understand how you and these traitors and these spies can do, how well you characterized them on Monday. You spoke very nicely. [[I think I even congratulated you on your break]] Most importantly, it's true quite. How will you now, Mr. Aligrudic, and with Chad Jovanovic; and with Ceku to bring you to the National Assembly, to vote against Tom Nikolic. Well done, Mr. Aligrudic. But regardless of my smile, Serbia won't forget this, it's too big a stake, it's Serbia, it's our country's stake, and with the country there's no game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u861	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u862	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has injured members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I didn't look at it before when he was passing by if he wore those new shoes he bought the other day at a boutique in the Sava Center. When he came with nine bodyguards to buy shoes, entered the buty, the women followed; they had to close the buty and no one could get in until he tried his shoes. You laugh, but it's true. The girls who work in that boutique couldn't come to themselves out of fear when they saw Chad's bodyguards. They're particularly wondering, I'm wondering, and they're wondering how the Serbian citizens, Cedomir Jovanovic, are getting paid, and here you're trying to stand up and look for, I don't know, some kind of relationship with tycoons, new people, etc. Aren't you afraid that Dragoljub Markovic will take away the house he gave you? The plagues gave him an apartment, but the plague is in Split right now, so he doesn't hear what's going on, but "Breaky" is in Surcin and listens and I'm afraid, Chad, that you won't have anywhere to go back tonight. It would be really good for you to talk about some democratic principles and principles when you talk about this speaker, since you're supposed to advocate democracy, to take a little care of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. True, we are used to you from the time you were in this National Assembly, when you were Deputy Prime Minister, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but not to respect the laws or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, you openly advocate and publicly pronounce that you do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you advocate independent Kosovo and Metohija. You act like no citizen in any country, let alone a politician and any president of a political party or political group, would be allowed. We Serbian radicals will not talk about what should happen to a party that behaves in this way and openly advocates the secession of part of the territory. We expect a reaction from the competent state authorities, but unfortunately, you are acting that way because you know there are no such competent state authorities, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. We don't have a Constitutional Court, we don't have a state prosecutor, and that's why people like Cedomir Jovanovic can go out for this pay phone and some TV... Of course, I can't go to another public place, because it doesn't really matter, and with nine bodyguards, it shows up and says what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic dares to say about this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u863	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Dragan Todorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u864	Mr. Chairman, I would really not report for this presentation of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, I am reporting by article 100. The Rules of Procedure, but I was inspired by this story of Mrs. Radette's distinguished colleague. I must supplement it for the sake of the public, that the citizens of Serbia know what they are, as Mr. Vukic would say, to the intellectual and every other gromad and hero, such as Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. When there are no nine bodyguards, when there are no Taci, Ceku and others who support him with all their heart, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is smaller than a soft grain and is afraid of someone like Dragoljub Markovic called "Krmivoje". I have to tell you a story that's sweet and interesting, so then let Chad cover his ears and don't beat us here anymore and show us what a great hero he is. He had a dog Chad, which I don't know about race, it's a beautiful quality for people to have animals. The dog was scratched by a jaguar, an expensive car called Krmivoja. Here, Chada smiles, she knows it's true, but she doesn't know how I know that story. Of course, Dragoljub "Crmivore" wasn't home, Chad was so scared, unsettled, and you know, all that at a time when he was supposed to be the strongest and strongest here, maybe it was during the time you introduced the emergency, I really don't know. But doggies like dogs scratched the jaguar. What Chad's gonna do, cruise all over Serbia and send his glasses, find some guy out there from around Jagodina, that specialist for it. I'll pay you three times as much as the tariff, or else I'll be done when "Smurf" comes. There, that's Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u865	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I respect all the MPs in this assembly, they were chosen by the people and they have the right to express their views and their political views, and there is no problem. However, there is also a obligation for all Serbian citizens to respect the law and regulations. In particular, MPs should do so, not to mention the heads of the committee groups, or party presidents. This, however, gives them a certain moral weight to work in harmony with the law, as people who should be responsible. There is one problem with Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. He would have to do some things first, and only after he went out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone. You know that you had to report sources of funding for your campaign to the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I won't be here for a moment to suspect that money isn't legal. God forbid they're from some criminal or some other source. I deeply believe that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has earned all that money. They're not small ones, to be clear, but if Mr Djelic could for this short time for 11m euros, why not Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, in the sun with the sources that funded you. Tell the citizens of Serbia where you get 60 or 70 million for your last campaign, and then call anyone. Until then, keep your mouth shut, Mr. Jovanovic. I understand that you're here talking about certain systems of value as a guard of fire, as a guardian of democracy, so who has a better right than you to talk about it. You're the man in the area most invited. A few courses are over when it comes to democracy. The first course in Schiller's, he studied it for days. Normally, after that goes to the tall one, which is Surcin; there are perfectly clear things, so for Chad Jovanovic the entire company "Belgrade Road", with ladders, compressors, and wherever they cross the street they make zebra. How does anyone have the right to suspect Cedomir Jovanovic and his intention to bring something good to this country? Mr. Cedomir may have been the greatest victim of this democracy since October 5th, and immediately his jeep went up. But from whom, Mr. Jovanovic, is it from that previous government, the non-national regime? No, it's the ones you burned the Assembly with on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u867	Replica? According to the Rules of Procedure? Excuse me, Doctor, a moment can't say replica, only the heads of the parliamentary groups. Yes, Mr. Aligrudic, then Mr. Dacic. It's a business thing. What member, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u868	Article 101. I said the MP was obliged to treat the other MPs with respect. Mr. Jovanovic, interestingly, is already coming out here in an odd manner, to teach us Serbian radicals, says everything and everything. Good thing he says everything and everything, it doesn't matter that much, I just want to remind him of one thing. He said in his statement that he should put Nikolic away for various things and that he doesn't care about Nikolic at all, nor about the other one, the other is Kostunica. Mr. Jovanovic, the Serbian people don't care about you, be aware of that. You united, collected from the stake and rope, got barely 5%, you in the Serbian people do not enjoy so much reputation that you can represent the Serbian people. Mr. Jovanovic, I have to tell you, this trained version of your speech, which is repeated, verbality, is called in professional terms, I am already concerned, as I am concerned by the absence of your criticism. The absence of criticism, don't you realize which part of the Serbian population you represent, is indeed of great concern. There's something else I want to tell you. When someone comes out and tells you that he's always right, then, believe me, it's not a Democrats, that's what goes towards autocracy, that's what goes towards totalitarianism. You're a representative of totalitarianism in this House, because every one of yours is right. The people, though, do not admit it, and you are aware that your values are very high, your value system. What is your value system – jeeps, bodyguards, and you laugh at it. Laugh you, millions of people in Serbia have no jobs, no bodyguards, no jeeps. That's your value system, that's what you belong to. You say, Serbian radicals don't follow the law, and you go out publicly and say, "I don't care about the Constitution, it's a thing so unfairly brought." What gives you the right to speak of legitimacy, legality, when the Constitution, the supreme document of this country, is not recognised. Get yourself together, something critical isn't right; why, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u869	It's a business thing. Here you go, Mr. Ognjen Mihajlović, I don't know all the names of the MPs, I apologize. Miss Natasha is helping me, very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u870	Of course, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was caused by Mr Jovanovic. I have a certain grudge to the doctor who spoke before me. Namely, you said that the Serbian people do not care about Mr Cedu Jovanovic. I think it's a little wider, not a single Roma in Serbia, not a Hungarian and all of our dear neighbours and friends of other nationalities. In one word, no one lives for him in this Serbia does not care. As for this part, however, I must look back on a much uglier attitude by Mr Jovanovic, when he tried to assess the emotional state of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's assembly president, he said he seemed sad, unhappy, or what, I can't exactly quote it, but I didn't make much of a mistake. That would mean that we Serbian radicals are sad, unhappy, or whatever. No, Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Nikolic is only very polite and will not openly laugh at anyone, of course. Although there are some elements here to cry about. I wouldn't be so harsh, because it's just not me, it's not my style, I looked back at the newly combined DS coalition, the DSS, the old unrequited love, which last Monday escalated with a great jealousy. I'd compare that more to the Barcelona-Getaffer situation, which is what it looks like to me, 5:2 at Barcelona, and there's 4:0; who knew, but it happened. Grandiose, gromada football player Ronaldino, so nothing. Here, a grand gentleman of intelligence tries to renegotiate not only this assembly, but a complete Serb people with one sentence that lasted, about 13 seconds. That's what happened, and that's what happened, and that's it, and that's it. No, Mr. Aligrudic, you will need a little longer, more extensive and more detailed to explain to the Serbian people, not to me, it's all clear to me, what actually happened, who you are, and why you are doing it, is it really your love for the state or something else. I think it's something else. To be clear with myself if I'm right, I was helped by one of your former party colleagues, Mr. Obren Joksimovic, who was a Time Minister of Health. I asked him in the then Federal Assembly - what are you leaving the DSS? Says man - I did not enter the DSS for Miskovic, Delta Miskovic, to be Prime Minister, but Vojislav Kostunica. In the end, Mr. Petrovic, you showed here our successful book "Political partner of the whore Del Ponte and the whore of del Kostunica", so now you know why she was written, why Dr. Vojislav Seselj gave his book such a title. I don't think he needs any more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u871	Thank you, Mr. Fire. The word is Mr. Aligrudić, and Mr. Dacic has to prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u872	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would take this opportunity to, on behalf of the DSS, present our position on the proposed agenda. Of course, everyone has the right to speak about what others think of him or to interpret the actions of others. It's part of a political life, and I think it's normal. That's why I don't intend to answer certain charges. I also believe that they are given only in the function of political explanation or the political angle of seeing what happened, of those who spoke, of what they certainly have rights to. It is mine to explain why we signed this proposal, but since the question has been raised here and why we voted for Tomislav Nikolic, it will be an extraordinary opportunity and a great honour, firstly, to certainly express my gratitude to the president of parliament for, in our opinion, a properly done duty until tonight. I speak for the Democratic Party of Serbia. The second thing, it will be an unusual pleasure, which is a rare opportunity for others to make, to quote myself, when it comes to a session held last Monday. Among other things, I said, what a stenogram says: "We have two proposals ahead of us to elect a president of the National Assembly. Otherwise, by political practice, everyone knows, when the speaker of the assembly is elected, it usually reflects the will of the assembly majority that is manifested in such a way that, before or at the same time, the policy that the assembly majority will represent and that policy is reflected in all states, which I know that democratic states are manifested through the elected government. So, the government's choice defines the policy represented by the assembly majority, defending the government, as a rule, although there are exceptions in the business of certain states, but as a rule, it is envisaged in the rules of procedure, it is political practice, that the president of the assembly be elected to reflect the assembly's majority. For us at the DSS, no moment would be a problem if we were to vote for any candidate proposed by any future coalition partner, if there were any government arrangements at that time. In this regard, we do not want to discuss personal solutions. For us, the solution of our coalition partners that we would be presented would be absolutely acceptable if it were part of the deal. Unfortunately, today we do not have an agreement on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're in a position to have two proposed candidates. One candidate is a political party that has 64 seats in this parliament. The other political party, which is the political party with which my political party has not held talks at any time, or talks on forming a parliamentary majority, supporting a government in this parliament, which has proposed its candidate for National Assembly President, the political party has 81 seats in this parliament. One possibility was that we could all agree on one candidate. However, it is logical to vote for the candidate of the group that has the most MPs in parliament, in this case it is the SRS. "Ladies and gentlemen, at that same session, I said, "As far as the principle is concerned, I call everyone," so I called everyone "to do what is reasonable, not what is politically important to us, and it is reasonable to support the candidate of the largest parliamentary group, which does not exclude the possibility of even being an election, nor to form a defined majority," because at that point we didn't even know it. In addition, after quoting myself, I will also quote something that Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, replicating or speaking about the statements of one of the MPs. So, "That's why, sir... "not to say which, "... you have a choice before you: either you will vote for Mrs Milosevic or for Tomislav Nikolic. Don't make any made-up arguments to justify how you're gonna do it. It's not your thesis that someone here is lying to you and that they can't tell you that, like, a government is formed, but only a congregation majority. Don't put it in one of the three groups that I've been repeating this to tonight for the fourth or fifth time and pretend they don't understand. You have a choice ahead of you. You choose the president of the assembly, you don't choose the government. If you were choosing a government, I'd tell you that already," etc. For the sake of honesty, I will explain, yes, Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke of the President of the Assembly as one, and the government as the other authority of the government, the other. What I wanted to explain is that the DSS's position was exactly the same, unchanged for weeks, and before an agreement was reached on the formation of the government and now that it was obviously achieved, which is that the Assembly cannot function without the elected president of the Assembly, that at the moment when we have no agreement on the assembly majority which, according to us, means only one - defined state policy through the choice of the executive body of power, it is not possible to function without the elected president of the Assembly, that at that moment two solutions were offered, one of which, for extremely principled reasons, were not acceptable for us, and another, which was logically, reasonablely and acceptable. We'll probably continue to differ, all of us in this assembly, over this expressed attitude of ours, but it's for further development of events irrelevant. It is natural for us, as I have said several times -- six or seven weeks ago to journalists gathered in the Serbian Parliament, about three weeks ago to journalists who were in the Serbian Parliament, and at a meeting of the heads of parliament on several occasions and that Monday about which we are talking about -- this was the only possible and acceptable solution for us at that time. In view of how the President of the Assembly's affairs were done here, if that was a question to explain, at the very beginning, I said, in our view of the matter, it was the correctly done affairs of the President of the Assembly, but it was our unequivocally clear political position that when the assembly majority is formed (which we announced two months ago and we did not depart from that attitude, nor do we think of it) certainly the position of Parliament's president must reflect a new political reality. Of course this could and could be solved in different ways. Truth be told, these different ways were mentioned in our conversations and offered, but apparently the determination was either to do it this way. I don't mind. So it's just fine to open up a debate over a motion to resolve, because that other way would mean there's no discussion. I just don't think that's the problem, and I don't want to complain about it. I believe it is the right of the elected president of the Assembly to define for himself what is the best way for him and that it is okay for the SRS parliamentary group to have the opportunity to defend its position as much as it considers necessary and most likely the President of Parliament himself will take advantage of his right to say what he thinks about everything. I have to say something that's true, which is that we from the DSS when we were elected by the President of Parliament didn't opt for state policy. When we spoke fiercely, even against each other, in the Serbian Parliament on Monday, we spoke because there were difficult and long-term negotiations on forming a government, both heavy words and heavy doubts were brought forward, but today it doesn't matter. That just means a government deal has been reached. What does that mean for the DSS? For us, this also means that the new government and the jobs of the new government have a political platform of the DSS, which means that we are not thinking, now and never, while this political party exists, that we are changing any EU or Euro-Atlantic integration for the fate of this country, when it comes to territorial integrity and sovereignty. We have no idea that we are ever changing Kosovo and the EU's accession methodology. The moment someone puts it as a condition for us, as far as the DSS is concerned, there will be no EU accession, because that price of any country, which has joined the EU so far and joined the EU, has never paid, so it would be extremely unusual to ask any country to pay such a price ever. So this thing has to be once and for all here cleared up and very clearly placed to the knowledge of all those who follow this transmission. (Chairman: Mr. Aligrudic, do you go up to 20 minutes? I'll keep going. For a word, we did not appear during the previous session and there was mostly no debate, but rather the debate was led by the use of the business right to react under the law of replicas or for violations of the Rules of Procedure. It's legitimate and it's okay. But what I've just said, no matter what I've heard in the past two and a half or three hours, I'm only saying now because I just didn't want to, and not the DSS MPs, to use this right from the Rules of Procedure to take away valuable time. If you're going to ask me who's to blame for the passage of precious time, of course, it's the people who have legitimateized themselves to negotiate for so long what we're going to have tomorrow or the day after tomorrow on the agenda, which is the formation of a government. But what benefits or damage does he now have to discuss? He's using it in particular. I'm afraid not. It's a shame we haven't formed the government before. It's a shame this session wasn't a month or two ago, but it's just like that. We have limited ourselves by one deadline in the Constitution to force ourselves, perhaps subconsciously assuming that such a situation could occur, that in due course the institutions of this state might be established. It's a good thing we did it. We know countries that don't have such provisions in the constitution, as was the case, relatively recently, with Switzerland, where it's been done for 10 months, and it's a real happiness for us that it wasn't like that here. There's a state where it's done something less, two and a half months, like in Germany, in the Czech Republic for seven months. It's lucky we didn't find ourselves in such a situation as those states that made it through the three-month deadline. It is obvious that the political scene of Serbia is indeed very different, that we have political parties that cannot easily be classified on both sides. When it comes to divided Serbia, it's the last thing or, in fact, that thing doesn't exist at all in the political dictionary, in the DSS programme, we think we can share in political beliefs, but we can't share Serbia. That's what we said in our election campaign. In general, all the reasons we heard tonight, and especially from one side of the discussion, in some way resemble some of the reasons we had to hear from those we didn't understand at all, at least not on this issue, and then simply see how right the Democratic Party of Serbia was when it felt that Serbia should not be artificially shared; politically yes, but artificially not, in the dark, hopelessness and in heaven, wonder on the other hand. Because we simply have to accept that we have different political thoughts, we have to accept what is best for Serbia and do what is best for us. Simply, everything we've done so far, and the vote Monday and what we're doing today and the agreement on the government that we've made, is the result of our efforts to find the best solution for all of us, that the state authorities of Serbia function and that we have in mind those problems that the state has the most at this point. We heard in previous discussions, and even tonight a little, that this biggest problem that Serbia has, which is the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, is somehow used here in a manner that, in my opinion, is not correct. It is important to me that we have reached an agreement on forming a government, that the political parties that have reached this agreement remain loyal to the principles that we have jointly agreed on. If that's the case, this country won't be a problem. I think then that this political coalition and this assembly majority will function for the good and interest of this state, and not at its expense, respecting the right of those parliamentary groups that remain in the opposition to fiercely defend their political confidence and to bring it out here in the way they see it and how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allows, but at the same time expressing hope that it will take account of and the deadline when it comes to the constitution of the Serbian state authorities and that it will no longer be possible after that deadline. In that sense, I thank you for listening to me. I simply want you to continue to do as you intended, and as for the DSS MPs and myself personally, after this explanation that I've given, I don't think there will be any reason for me to be more involved in the debate, or for us to be involved in replicas, or to report to you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that with our colleagues who may think differently from us, we can discuss the issue that they are launching. Therefore, you who think you should participate in the debate continue to do so. We think that the reasons we presented and why we signed the motion to resolve Tomislav Nikolic are sufficiently contained in this and that they do not require much longer, bile and large debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u873	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Canak, and then for the replica Mr. Todorovic, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Shain, you are the first. I ask the messengers to be quiet. We'll take a break when the heads of Parliament are finished, and that'll be in half an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have just received a notice after reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, that our Eurosong representative, Ms. Marija Sheriffovic, won and, in that sense, I congratulate her, but I wanted to say something else. Her victory has raised a number of questions in this assembly, which is, since we got 10 points from Croatia's representatives, from Macedonia's 12, from Montenegro's 12 representatives, and from Russia's five, I think Mr Tomislav Nikolic must be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u875	Thank you, Mr. Chank. This is good news. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u876	Mr. Canak, just for a minute. Whenever the Croats gave any representative of Serbia 12 points, I think that no one, and if it were, would give the Serbs a single point. But I didn't answer for Mr. Chank, but for Mr. Aligrudic, who left... Oh, there it is. Mr. Aligrudich, you quoted yourself, but I'll quote you to someone who answered you that night in the assembly. I won't tell you who that MP is. He said after your speech, "Mr. Aligrudic, it is clear that you are entering a very clear way of speaking, which shows which side you are going irrevocably. You're trying to be more Catholic than the Pope, but that doesn't work. [[Applause by DS.]] You'll hardly be worse than the radicals, you'll just fail, but that's none of my business. Your decisions are your responsibility. I want to tell you something here that can't leave me without an answer, Mr. Aligruditch. Are you aware you're accusing us of treason? (Responsibility of MP Aligrudic from the post - yes. ) So, Mr Aligrudić, you confirm today that we, therefore, are the DSS, which is the authorised representative in parliament, has declared the Democratic Party a traitor party. (Repeats by the radicals - yes. ) Therefore, confirmed by Mr Aligrudic, Serbia's Democratic Party, of its authorised representative in parliament has declared the DS a traitor's party. Of course, it's not the first time, Mr. Aligrudic. "I'll tell you what political inconsistency is, and you'll see a book that's pretty big and fat. "I will tell you what political inconsistency is, and you will see when there is a vote for the president of parliament. That book is called the "Political Partner of the Whore Del Ponte and the Whores of del Kostunica". "Do you have anything against the title now, Mr Petrovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u877	The word is Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u878	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. That's how we Roma care, so we present good to Serbia, so Serbia rises to the victory stand in Europe, and someone tells us – Roma don't care about anything. And how so, it can't be like that. I would ask you this: I don't mind big parties agreeing, conflicting, fighting in some of their opinions, but I think it's past that time for minorities to be used as a protesting coin. I am Roma and then when someone tells me I don't care about anything, I think I'm either stupid or I don't know how to think about it, because then either I don't think about Chad, or I don't think about Tomislav Nikolic, or I don't think about Dusan Petrovic, Dacic, Chada Jovanovic... God, I would love it when the Roma Party is in this assembly to propose that all 250 MPs vote for it; when we propose a declaration of permanent care for children in Serbia, all 250 MPs vote on it. I would like to vote all 250 MPs on the declaration of Roma integration in Serbia, because when the first news publishing institution in Europe was established in the Roma language, the entire parliament of Vojvodina voted, and this is an example of Serbia, so we have to do and that's the real thing. I really ask you once again, don't let anyone else be an arbiter of minorities or other citizens, let everyone speak on behalf of their party, on behalf of their voters, on behalf of those people who chose them, and only the Serbian Parliament can choose and speak for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u879	Mr. Alexander Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u880	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to try to get a little serious after what Mr. Canak was talking about. I don't know who he is or what country he's given so many votes for which song, I'm as happy as any other citizen, if a representative of Serbia wins, but I have to notice that he's not a very good parallel to you, Mr. Canak. On the side which both in Austria and Slovenia and in what is today called the Croatian Serbs were the ones who voted for our representative, not someone else. That doesn't take much of an interest. On the other hand, I have to inform you that Russia is the one who won't take away Kosovo and Metohija from us, and that those with whom you're hanging out and who you love most at all want to take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. Somehow, it seems to me to be quite different, very different, and that our country is Kosovo and Metohija is still most needed. On the other hand, I am afraid, if you are looking for Tomislav Nikolic's resignation over this, then Tomislav Nikolic will remain in office for 100 years, not as president of parliament, but as president of Serbia. As for you, not only yourself, but all of you who support and take from us Kosovo and Metohija, you would not see this parliament on the postcard. I reported for Mr. Aligrudic and for what he brought here, because in a mild but incorrect way he tried to deny what I said tonight about the reasons for making the deal regarding the election of Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Assembly. Of course, first of all, since one of the MPs here has objected to what we have discussed and negotiated, I have not yet heard that it is possible to do anything in any forum without first agreeing with someone. It's understood that the deal was, that's what we announced that day. However, it is not true what Mr Aligrudic said, on the contrary, it is a complete lie – that there has been no talks on state policy, the future of Serbia and how Serbia should emerge from the crisis it is in today. So that's what we've talked about, and that's what we agreed, that Tomislav Nikolic be elected president of the Assembly, that we hold a strong institution like the National Assembly, that we can send a clear message to the world at any time, what we think about Kosovo and Metohija, what we think about those villains that you love the most, who kill our child or take our territory, all the same, because they're both doing; you don't even have to metaphorically compare, they're killing our children, now they're taking our territory, so now for everyone, what's worse. So the point was -- what we could do for our country, and that was the plan and the deal. Unfortunately, DSS representatives have stepped down the deal. They brutally broke him, three days later. They say tonight – Tomislav Nikolic did his job well. They say, "We are satisfied with the way he did his work. No one can say he didn't get the word, that he got the warning, that his money was taken, as it was done at the time of your democracy. Let me remind you, at the time you threw out people who were 500 miles away, because they appeared to you here in the mass of radical MPs. What we're talking about tonight, no matter what the hours are, is not the time to laugh, because the time to repent will be very long, after the formation of the government, they say, of a democratic bloc, in which the vice president will be one who has 11m euros in one account alone, in which ministers will be those who do not know whether or not they have ever done this work in life or completed certain schools, will be those who openly tell you that it does not matter what happens to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will be those who do not care and do not respond to the statements of Nicholas Burns, who says - we will take Kosovo and Metohija, but it is great that there is no radical. It's too serious a thing in Serbia that we in this high house would play around anything. The joy of winning Maria Sheriffovic or anyone else is elsewhere. It is our job to make citizens happy not only when we have one sports, artistic or not know what victory, but to look forward to life, to live better, to know that they live in their territory, that you can tell that child tonight in Prilujje who is watching this transmission – son, or daughter, you will also be in Serbia tomorrow, not in Ceku and Thaci's Kosovo. That's why we're here tonight, because of the serious messages, because of the serious state, and not because we should make any kind of joke or cheat or cross our political opponent. I know that the authorities now have no interest in anything, drunk with fame now imagine cabinets, cars, bodyguards, where, where, where the secretary is being transferred, which is the next tender, what it's worth to that barracks, how much this barracks, how much they're going to sell EPS, and how much NIS, what is the commission on one, and how much on the other. They don't care about the debate and Tomislav Nikolic, they don't care about anything. It's just that it's important that you get your hands on it as soon as possible. And Kosovo, we'll let it go two or three months, they'll forget the people, they don't care. He won't forget. It's irresponsible historical behavior, it's unserious historical behavior. Serbian citizens are not fools, Serbian citizens are smart, honest, educated people, in a political sense, and they know well that tonight's shift of Tomislav Nikolic has nothing to do with techniques and technologies, tonight's shift of Tomislav Nikolic, with a broad front from Cedomir Jovanovic to Vojislav Kostunica, clearly shows what the authorities' intentions are. The government's intentions in Serbia are to lead politics against Serbia, and to praise every day what visa reliefs will be. (Chairman: Mr. Wolf, please finish. I'll give you one piece of information, and I know you don't know about this information, Mr. Grouchy, and no other MPs, I got it today. Do you know how many times the "visa relief" syntagm has been mentioned in the last three days? I am only talking about TV media with national coverage – visa reliefs have been mentioned 191 times, and the topic of opposing the secession of Kosovo and Metohija has only been mentioned 12 times. What did Serbia fall for, people, when visa reliefs were mentioned 191 times and Kosovo and Metohija 12 times? Look how far Serbia has been brought in because of those who talk nonsense about stock exchanges. He's not here, Jovanovic. I wanted to teach him a lesson about the stock exchanges, because he doesn't have a thing to do with it, to explain it to him. But I'll teach him next time what it was that affected the decline and the growth of the stock market, what happened, what funds did some things, why it was predicted, why it was expected, why it was expected, etc. In any case, it is very important that people in Serbia know that you are leading Serbia along a path that is completely different from what, as Parliament Speaker, Tomislav Nikolic would like to lead it. One last thing I'd say is, don't lose your mind while you're looking forward to it. Congratulations to our winners, I must tell you that, among other things, it is because of the motivation of our Serbs around the world that Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the assembly. That's why congratulations on both her and Tomislav Nikolic, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u881	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. There's a word Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Mr. Chank for saying that the Rules of Procedure have an advantage, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u882	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you, I know you're under the influence of your vice president, your colleague, to take a closer look at the other side, since I've long spoken to you. I'm telling you this not because I don't have time to wait, but because the man I wanted to replicate came out. Who do I replicate to now? You're giving me the right to tell Chadi Jovanovic what I want to tell him. If anyone can call him or send bodyguards to bring him in, there's no problem. He mentioned me, and I really answered the line. In the meantime, you spoke to fellow Members and on that basis. I would ask you, therefore, to respect the order of this session if you would like to remain Vice President of Parliament. Mr Ceda Jovanovic mentioned the SPS and myself personally, as well as the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, attacking Kostunica at the time that he said it was a coup. Citrate the book of Zoran Mijatovic, who was (known as Mr Djelic, who was then minister), deputy head of state security portfolio in the government of Zoran Djindjic. He wrote the book. So, on June 28, 2001, the day Milosevic was extradited, he says, "In my office... "so it's in the state security office, where Milosevic was taken by helicopter to NATO airport in Tuzla, and beyond to The Hague, "... The head of The Hague's office, David Black, from the CIA, a graduate schexpirologist, who, on this case, replaces his boss, famous David Najbor, who will be expelled from Belgrade a year later for spying with General Perisic. Black is the supervisor of the whole action. After him, the younger Ceda Jovanovic arrives, with his own scroll that makes up a number of security from the JSO's composition. "I'll remind you, they're special ops units. There was a Legion, gentlemen. "This same security at the time of the JSO rebellion also escorted younger Jovanovic to Goran Petrovic at the Institute and went to the Tower to join the protest of his brothers. "I ask one question: what was Cedomir Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen at the time? On June 28th 2001, Cedomir Jovanovic was head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since when do club bosses arrest people in Serbia? Who gave him the right to participate in the arrest of a man and his extradition? Since he is attacking Mr. Miskovic today, let's look at what Zoran Mijatovic writes: "Later, after the extradition, we go to the restaurant "Deltino", which is held by the owner of the company "Delta" Miskovic, where the minister gives dinner. At dinner we were Minister Mihajlovic, myself, Ivan Djordjevic, chief of cabinet Dusan Mihajlovic, host of Miskovic, CIA gentleman David Black, British intelligence officer Monkton, Ceda Jovanovic etc." How was Miskovic then good enough to organise a dinner for the handover of Milosevic, and now he is not good, after six years of government, during DOS authorities? Since I have no one to talk to, Chada Jovanovic is not here, I would wait for her to return. In any case, I would like to say that what I'm saying does not apply to the Democratic Party, because it has replaced and excluded Cedomir Jovanovic from its ranks. So if he was good, he'd probably stay in your party. But it's about how can one of the club's chiefs participate in the arrest? Imagine that now Mr. Petrovic or Mr. Mica Albianic, when he was head of the parliamentary club, participates in the arrest of a man here in Serbia. Is this about abuse of political and state powers, or is it about arresting political opponents all possible, ladies and gentlemen? That's the justice we're talking about, and that's respect for democracy and human rights. Since Cedomir Jovanovic has left, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, because I have the right for 20 minutes to call me later, but don't make it five in the morning. We agreed that the session should last relatively briefly, at least until 4.30. Looks like he's picking up the word Mr. Batic. Did I mention you? How did I mention you? You, Mr. Batic, haven't been to the Institute of Security, haven't been to dinner, at least I couldn't find anything like that. Only if you want to correct this Zoran Miatovic. He was, ladies and gentlemen, your deputy head of Serbia's security, not ours. If he wrote it like that, what would someone else write, who would be more objective than him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u883	I pray for a little more patience, we have two more replicas and two discussions per Rules of Procedure. He has the word Mr. Jovan Damjanovic. When the debate is over, the heads of the parliamentary groups, I suggest a half-hour break, which will be held by the Administrative Board. I would immediately inform you, too, that there are 22 registered MPs who want to discuss and speak. Here you go, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, we've heard a lot of incredible but true these days. The agony of the citizens. I wonder now, about these quick views and the change of one democratic president who has been elected, what the agony of the citizens is now. How are we going to explain now to the citizens what happened in 24 hours, and we had one democratic president elected by majority of votes here in parliament? Somebody explain it, I certainly can't explain it. There was a word here about treason. This should be explained by someone who is terrible when talking in today's Serbian parliament about the betrayal of this state in this parliament. And we've been listening to that, too. I think it's terrible, because most of the Serbs who take care of their country are here, about their people, and about the interests of the state at all. But that's what it was. I'm not competent to give an explanation. The one who's competent and called should say so. I hear, they say, when radicals come to power, there will be a war situation, we will defend Kosovo. Surely we will defend Kosovo, not only radicals, but everyone in this country, both Serbs and minority nations. We will certainly defend him, not to go to kill, to war, there are other democratic methods that the SRS and how it can use. These are political dialogues, ambassadorial, diplomatic contacts and this is our struggle in the SRS how to defend Kosovo. These are contacts with the international community, with Europe and all those who are competent for the right of one state to its integrity and sovereignty. There is a possibility, if he has rights, rights will be respected in all international and European declarations. If the force, then the force will do how it bombed this Serbia, killed our people, destroyed our resources in this country, so will Kosovo. Today we are changing one of the presidents of parliament who has been elected, who is today a politician who knows the entire political transversal. And why are we changing it, if it's in Serbia's interest and if it's in the interest of this society? They know why they're changing it, and we know why it's changing and what's supposed to happen. Today they went out, and back a few days, the Roma representatives of political parties, said what they were saying... (President: Mr Damjanović, please finish your thought. If you'll allow me, if not, I'll continue later. (President: When there is a discussion, you will have a chance. ) Please, I see that Mr. Shane is always talking to a Serbian radical party. The Serbian Radical Party is the most democratic political party in this country. In our party there are Roma, Bulgarians, Hungarians, Slovaks, please, whether it is then a democratic party, political, because there are members of all peoples and peoples in our party. The Serbian Radical Party has made a precedent in the world, named one minister, Roma, who has also worked hard to develop his people in this country. He is allowed in all spheres through the institutions of the state to help his people. The SRS has enabled the Roma people and infrastructure, sewerage, plumbing, housing, education and all that was not possible until radicals came, not only in Zemun, but also in many others... (President: Don't, Mr. Damjanovic.) Finish it, please. I received one fax and was asked by representatives of the Roma community. I allow Roma parties to have their voters as many as they have, but if we say, as they said themselves, it is a pandan for the Serbian Radical Party, which has 180,000 Roma, I believe we are in the SRS, and I, as the Roma, are competent for Roma issues in this country. No one mentions a decade of Roma, which is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u885	Thank you, Mr Damjanovic, I must apologize to you, do not be angry, there will be time for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered when Mr. Ivica Dacic answered. Unfortunately, I do not see that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is present in the hall, but it is clear why he is constantly addressing Serbian Radical Party MPs. The Serbian Radical Party is Serbia's most powerful political option. A million and 200,000 Serbian citizens voted for the SRS. About 200,000 citizens voted for his option and the options around him. The problem is only about the millions of citizens who voted for the SRS. Unlike Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who says the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not a sacred letter, representatives of the SRS have advocated the Constitution, for Kosovo and Metohija to be an integral part of Serbia, and for the establishment of the Assembly. For all of this, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic stands in the opposite direction entirely. I understand that the calls for democratic parties do not have responsibility, but in fear of the most powerful and powerful political party, the SRS, form blocks that only function in force due to the SRS. The only serious party is the SRS, and the West understands that. That's why the reactions are like that, in fear of someone who really cares about the interests of the citizens coming, about their future. They see and acknowledge our strength by precisely this reaction, otherwise they would allow the collapse of a rotten democratic bloc anyway. In fact, anyone smart would allow the SRS to show through the institutions whether they know business or not, and only then can they criticise failure and unquality work. Ladies and gentlemen, they have just admitted that Mr Tomislav Nikolic is capable of leading the state, but not according to the dictatorship of the powerful, but exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens, on democratic principles. That is why citizens today, who see what their electoral will does, say – thank you to the Serbian Radical Party for the Constitution, thank you to the Serbian Radical Party who showed Europe and gave a lesson from democracy when it established the Assembly, thank the SRS that calls for reason and responsibility. They are irresponsible and unreasonable from the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, who have been caring for their own interests for more than three months and are now executing foreign tasks, forgetting that they are responsible only in front of their own people. A moment ago Milos Aligrudic apparently lost some of the stenographic notes saying, "I'm sorry, I had to check in with the Rules of Procedure, because it's simply an incredible ease with which you say the truth, Mr Petrovic," I think he spoke to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u887	Thank you. Mr. Canak has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u888	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I copy the performance of Mr. Alexander Vukic, who called me because he thinks I've brought too many jokes into my presentation. However, I have indeed tried to, in accordance with my first speech, give an honest exit to all of us, through something that will be a good opportunity and through a little joke, give us all a chance to relax out of this which will surely turn into a dispersion of additional bile and additional accidents anyway to the unhappy citizens of Serbia. But, Mr. Wolfie, since you called me, I'm going to have to replicate you for a few of your testimony. You said our Eurosong candidate's victory helped the Serbs around the world vote, including Croatia. How are the Serbs in Croatia, Mr. Vukic, when you keep saying they've been expelled from there? Then who voted there, Mr. Wolfie? Or you called it once and for all, when there are Serbs, when there is no need for Serbs. You mentioned Russia. You know, if the current Russian ambassador to Serbia right now has a major thought, which he repeated on several occasions, that Russia defends itself in Serbia, remember what I said, so in this same room it was said that Serbia defends itself in Knin, and then there was no more Serbs in Knin, and I would like the Serbs to be in Serbia, if possible. We all know through history what happened when the Russians defended us. Furthermore, the fact that you mentioned those I allegedly love very much, I don't know what you meant by that, I assume that by that you meant NATO and others who bombed Serbia, I'll remind you that Russia is an associate member of NATO. That same Russia you're so trusting in. At the same time, in 1999, when the first bomb was dropped on Serbia and fell on Novi Sad, I went into the New Sad Corps and applied for volunteering, all of us members of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, precisely because when the bombs begin to drop there are no more policies, then we are all in the same front. It must be so with every patriot, one who is an honest patriot, not by profession. That's why, Mr. Wolf, I ask you to understand my attempts to bring back a little reason and some positive energy to this country, which you have very successfully taken away from this people over the past 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u889	I'm begging you, just one minute. The man's up. Mr. Batic, sit in the front row, please. Excuse me. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u890	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I shall have to disappoint you, Mr. Chanak. Mr. Canak is an intelligent man, but Mr. Canak never wanted Serbia and the Serbian people well. Mr. Canak, unfortunately for you, Serbs in the area of occupied Serbia's Krajina and Croatia's avionics continue to have, not nearly as close as there were, as your allies, Stjepan Mesic and the other continuations of Ustasha ideology, have driven them out of their hearth in the worst possible way. To inform you, around 50% of Serbs live objectively in Vukovar today. So, not with those from Rijeka and Zagreb who lead them to vote in order to win the election and to glean most of them, but the people who live there. Our antiques live in Knin Kosovo, Lica, Kordun and Banija. Is this the reason to exculpate in any way the most serious crime since the Second World War, which the Ustasha army committed, which is the banishment of 300, 400 or 500,000 people? I don't think so. It has nothing to do with us. They were not expelled by any of us, but expelled by Franjo Tudjman and other continuations of Pavelic's ideology. I see that you support and create this coalition, in which there are those who support Pavelic's ideology or meet with the highest followers of Pavelic. I will remind you of the meeting, do not take your hands or heads off, I will remind you of the meeting of Ivana Dulic-Markovic with the highest representative of today's living Ustasha Anto Djapic, who holds an image of Ante Pavelic in the press conference room, and who boasts of it. But worst of all, they officially met in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the Republic of Serbia welcomed one of the greatest villains and criminals, one of the people who continued ideology that committed the most evil against the Serbian people. When did that meeting happen? ) This meeting took place about four months ago, at Subotica, very precisely to inform you. Newspapers have also published photos. Mr. Ladjevic of the Serbian government also attended the meeting. Don't be nervous, because I need to explain something about Russia. I agreed in front of George Vukadinovic about one thing... (President: Mr. Wolfie, hold on to your time. I'm listening to you for the third time for three minutes and 10 seconds. You didn't warn Mr. Chank about five and ten. (President: Mr. Chanak held some order. I won't answer anything, Mr. Grouchy. (Chairman: Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, wrap it up. I'd just like to answer that about Russia, Mr. Canak. I don't know, sometimes Russia directly protected us, sometimes less directly, but as I recall, Russia never bombed us, never carried out any military action against Serbia, and never did any harm to any Serb state resident, except those who would commit a crime in any way. These are your... By the way, Russia is a member of the Partnership for Peace, but these precision is not so important. Unbound for this, these friends of yours you're saying should protect us, ask you, what, Mr. Canak, are not protecting us, what are Kosovo and Metohija taking from us? You said you'd give it to us and we'd have it, that it was a democratic issue. What the democratic question has come to – that radicals should not rule, but that ours must rule in order to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija at the end of May. Is that a democratic question? Is that the essence of democracy you stand for? Like Cobel's democracy; how much money did Cobel invest in the election? Only the Youth Initiatives gave 20.005 euros for the elections. Is that democracy in Serbia? I don't think so, Mr. Canak. Serbia needs serious changes, but Serbia needs one serious state first. There are no serious states, if you're playing with it, you're kidding and you're making fun of it. What about us? Or is there a problem in us, I don't know what nature; if someone beats us over the head and the harder he beats us on the head, we have an obligation to scream more and more often - we love you. The more the European Union and America beat and hit Serbs over the head, the stronger you will scream - we love you, the better we are. That kind of sick masochism doesn't exist... It lasts as long as I say, Mr. Batic. The real parliamentaryism is not to interfere, but to let the MP say as much as necessary. I know you'd be in a state of emergency again, but the time of emergency has passed. You carried him out, Mr. Batic, into action. They're full of citizens of your state of emergency. Don't touch, Mr. Canak, from this pay phone the only country that's on the side of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people today. We can love or do not love the Russians, Americans, but America is stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija, the European Union is kidnapping us from Kosovo and Metohija, and Russia is defending us from Kosovo and Metohija. Like it or not, it's today's situation. In the future, if we approach the Russians economically, especially thanks to their energy power, we will spread our economic power; if we listen to you and your political ideologists, we will be even bigger donkeys, because only a stick and carrots will increase, and Serbia will not get anything but a stick and carrots.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u891	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Batic has a word. Please, after my break, I'm really gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure in a minute, and that's all I know how to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called first about the replica, and now I'm advertising and breaking the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, you must take care of the agenda. For the last hour, we have listened to everything and everything, but not to what is the topic of the agenda, which is the shift of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, here some MPs deal more with Cedomir Jovanovic, as if a proposal had been submitted for his resolution rather than for the resolution of Tomislav Nikolic. That's one thing. The second thing, it doesn't matter whose votes won "Eurosong" Marija Sheriffovic. It is important that it is the first victory of an independent and independent Serbia, for which, otherwise, only the Democratic Party of Serbia and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Just for the record. As for Kosovo, the story of Kosovo, traitors etc., I can't wait to discuss Kosovo, but I won't waste my time tonight, so let's see who did what and who didn't do what when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. So I can look everyone in the eye so we can see who fought against Albanian separatists, and who kept quiet their terror, crimes and separatism, because that's how our crimes and our terror were justified, because some of our countrymen in our name committed crimes and then the rules of balance of crime. But that's not the point. What's the subject today, it's a matchmaker's policy, you see it, you don't see it, this one's not, this one's not, let's guess who it is. This is a story about the election and resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen... (President: I ask the MPs to listen to Mr Batic. ) Ladies and gentlemen, how many limits of moral decline, moral sunset, moral misery, moral debacle, moral cataclysms of those who, three days ago, by name and last name, rose up and voted publicly for Tomislav Nikolic, the same ones whose morals were at the bottom, who signed today a proposal for his resolution. Imagine what a moral debacle that is! People are only worth it because the man is as great as his morals are. Okay, I mentioned Mr. Pekic, because he is the ideologist of these without morals, cheeks and honor, and Pekic spoke – the personal morality is the basis of every general policy, let's wake up people, citizens and Serbs and never sacrifice any of these qualities to another; whoever begins to sacrifice his virtues ends in sacrificing other people's lives. So we haven't heard the argument, or even heard that Tomislav Nikolic was doing his job well. If you're looking for someone's solution, then you're making his mistakes, his failures, you say he misleaded the Assembly, he violated the Rules of Procedure, maybe he said, it's now a political position, that Serbia should be Russian guberer, or maybe he interpreted theoretically or in fact the process of introducing an emergency as some possibility, so at least it was arguments. Then you can say that people have arguments, they changed their minds after a few days, unexpectedly fast, but possible. Like this, everything's fine, but we made a deal. Neither of you, dear friends of the DS, should mention national and national interests. It's a lie. It is no state and national interest, this government, which should be headed by the same prime minister, is a state and national evil, and you will see for yourself very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u893	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is Mr. Srdjan Shane, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u894	Replica, because Joja Damjanovic mentioned me in his discussion, Jovan Damjanovic. Is my dear friend there or isn't he? Yes, it is. Let's deal with it this way: if Mr Damjanovic thinks I want to join the SRS, then there will be a better MP, not to worry, the position of the Roma Party is not to enter any political party in this parliament. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd really like to ask him to listen carefully when someone's talking here. I have not addressed the MPs of the SRS, I have said that I would like 250 MPs in this House to vote for some of our proposals, and as far as I know, there are other political parties here. So you see how your vice president and Mr. Vukic are acting, and how we communicate; when you and this young colleague next to you learn it, it'll be a much better situation. If you're already such a fighter for national minorities, why didn't you tell him when he said he wasn't interested in being vice president in this assembly a member of the national minorities, then we shouldn't have done that. Let's not discuss it that way, because I think your party understands it differently. I'm not sure that's their attitude, like the attitude you two have made. I have not, in any word, offended any party in this House, because I believe that the Roma Party plays an integral role in this House, and there is no role in entering any conflict and in strengthening the ethnic distance between Roma and other nations. You know very well, when some talked about the election campaign on some parties, including the SRS, that there was a lot of fascism, that I said on TV that nobody could talk about the party that won a million voters in this way and that it was not good for minority representatives to talk to the public in that way. Therefore, please, you have better ways to show that you are loyal to the party's presidency. Don't do that, please, through the Roma Party. The Roma Party has no mission. The Roma Party has a completely different mission, we said what our programme is, that our programme is pro-European Serbia, that our programme is to fight for socially endangered categories, for Roma integration and try to provide better children, for Serbia's children, for tomorrow. It's not our program to get into things like that. I'd really like to ask you, benevolently. As I am telling you today, I also told some other representatives of parliament at the last session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u895	Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Canak, the replica. Two members of the parliamentary groups, Mr Petrovic and Mr Dacic, also called for the discussion. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have to say, and not now, but I have learned that, too, through the Rules of Procedure of Discussion. What are you advertising, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u896	Of course, Mr. Vice President, I'm sure I'll call a member. Before I call for an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I would say to Mr. Cank – you do not have to ask Mr. Vukic to explain to you when it was, where it was, and at what time it was possible, you have Mr. Kuntic Petra, President of the Alliance of Vojvodina Croats and Vice-President of the municipality, who also attended Dužjanci and received, along with Mrs. Dulic, Antu Djapic. So clear it up with him. Otherwise, to inform the citizens of Serbia, you know very well, the Alliance of Vojvodina Croats is in a coalition with the Democratic Party. Of course, I'm advertising Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is not here, because he was the one he was referring to. When there is no bile on the Serbian Radical Party, when it does not offer Kosovo and Metohija and whoever does not seek, when it does not justify funds with its sponsors, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, if you have noticed, spins a dozen empty and empty sentences. I was trying to catch one of his high-minded thoughts, here's a few sentences, one quote. He says so - we must build new systems of value through value categories by respecting the valuable parameters of European value pyramids. New systems of value and value categories for European and Euro-Atlantic integration offer new values for courts and European values. I hope you didn't understand, I didn't, though, possibly miss out on some other valuable category, so that would be about it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you from the non-democratic bloc, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats, Mr. "an example" (and none), only to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic to ask a few questions, not to answer us, but to answer to the citizens of Serbia. Where'd he get that kind of campaign money? He had more billboards than the SRS. Where he got the security money, here's nine of them following him with three jeeps. Where'd he get the money for the jeeps and that bachelor he's got in Surcin? Did Schiller crash to hide Cedomir Jovanovic's DNA, because from the House of Health they watched and told us that Cedomir Jovanovic baths every day in that pool and that Bagzi or Tojaga hold his bade coat. It wasn't a fork, it was that watch that he got from the Starship, which cost 6,000 marks. As for Djindjic's murder, he keeps mentioning, he always looks at the SRS when he wants to mention Djindjic's murder, and the other day in the Special Court mentions him whether Tojaga or Bagzi, one of them, is Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's name and name. So don't talk to us about it anymore. Think about who advised the "earth clan" to destroy the numbers on the guns, who gave the gun to the killer?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u897	Mr. Canak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Vukic, as I address you, in your statement, as I understand it, you referred to the fact that the Serbs suffered from Ustasha persecution in Croatia. You probably don't know, so I'm going to introduce you to the fact that my family is from like, from the Shiroke Tower, and that after these wars, there is no longer my family, because they were killed. That's the first thing I'd like to draw your attention to. The second thing, as regards Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Ante Djapic's meeting in Subotica four months ago, you said, in Dužianca, I ask the question: who was then in power and who was then the police minister and how is it possible that this country did not do anything about it? I think that's the thing that we all have to keep in mind, because there's going to be one point in the agenda, as I understand it, where we're all going to have to see what's going on together, because Mr. Nikolic's shift, as I understand it, is the introduction to something that we're just going to have to talk about, so it's one very useful piece of information, which we're going to have to give answers to during today's session. However, why didn't you condemn it, Mr. Vukic, in the election of Mr. Nikolic as Parliament Speaker? This government that you're talking about, which lets people who are continuing the darkest forces of fascist Europe from the first half of the 20th century, because the Ustasha movement is nothing more than a genocide fascist movement... You allow, as the Government of Serbia, such a single movement to be walked here, in the form of its sequels. Be careful, if the current government did so, now this technical one, before that was in office, if this government did so, how could you let those who let Ustasha go after Serbia help you in having Mr Nikolic chair the Serbian Parliament? You know, there are things you can't afford if you don't want it to mess you up, and this has more than ruined your efforts for Serbia and the Serbian people. When we talk about Kosovo and taking it, I would not now open a story about 15% of the territory, because no one mentioned how much it is the percentage of Serbian citizens. You know, territory is territory, but one country is primarily made up of people, as far as I know. But the same Kosovo, don't forget, was handed over by the Socialist Party of Serbia, its president, Slobodan Milosevic, to the Kumanovski Agreement. The Kuman agreement, don't forget, was high treason, leaving part of Serbia's territory. That category, high treason, was lost in the Constitution that you've been building now. Those categories are gone, and we all know what punishment is everywhere in the world for high treason. My question is: since the Russian forces, if I remember correctly, first arrived in Kosovo after signing the capitulation, and the Kuman agreement cannot be called otherwise, then why didn't they stay there, so let them keep Kosovo while they were on their own? The Yugoslav Army at the time, today would be Serbia's army, left Kosovo, as well as all the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. So that's my question, then why do you rely so much on the Russians? One more thing. You said at one point, if I understand you correctly, correct me if I'm wrong, that these quasi-democratic parties are joining up against the SRS. First of all, I don't think that all parties who say they are democratic are democratic, which showed the case of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is neither democratic nor party, and I don't believe it's Serbia, but good. All in all, when your great supporter Mr. Jean-Marie le Pen began to win in France, there was a anti-paint coalition that managed to stop the process that Le Pen intended to carry out in France. Are you telling me that France is not a democratic state?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u899	The replica was answered by Mr. Vučić and Mr. Bajatovic and Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my father is from when you started it, from western Bosnia, the village of Cipuljic, from Bugojn when you head for Kupres, so there's no house left to be destroyed, and in the war they killed everyone, the whole family, so fate is the same, you don't have to bid it, because I don't see happiness for me or for you to compete in. As for Russia and what they did, I came forward first, because there is the topic of Kostunica and Djindjic. Namely, when the Russian forces came to Kosovo and Metohija, the Russians had one request for both, which is that Milosevic is tried in Belgrade and Serbia, only to be not extradited to The Hague tribunal. They had a firm promise, and this was given to Vladimir Putin, that Slobodan Milosevic would not be handed over to The Hague tribunal. Nenad Chanak, from the scene: that's true. I know it's true, Mr. Canak, that's why I'm talking, because of the public who doesn't know. The moment Kostunica and Djindjic handed over Slobodan Milosevic, as we from the SRS managed to find out some details, Vladimir Putin is on the flight, I cannot remember exactly the destination he went to, and it is not particularly important for us, he said – you are withdrawing all the military, I am not interested in Serbs, when they are able to extradite their president to The Hague tribunal and not respect what we agreed. It was a key point and a key reason why, following such disrespect by Kostunica and Djindjic, the Russian army left Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't get an answer when the Russians did something to us. We can tell the Russians – we expected more, we hoped more, but they never did anything to us. There's another question I wanted to talk about, referring to what Mr. Canak was talking about. Mrs. Tadic and Kostunica must have turned out to be the only normal person in this country, when you represent someone, approximately – this one is Le Pen, this one's like this, that one's like that. You don't see that you have one problem – do you really think there are 30% extremists in Serbia? I don't think there are even 3% of extremists in Serbia. That 3% plus something else has been cheated on by another political party. I think 30% of normal Serbs and other Serbian citizens who want well their country, their people, and therefore vote in favour of the SRS. Our political happiness is that our political opponents have never understood the tone, nor the way they speak, nor the messages sent by the SRS. That's why we have so much and wide support, and you want to compare us every time -- yeah, that's why Girinovski got eight, that's got 11, and this one got five somewhere, that's what we should bring them down to. People, we live in Serbia. People in Serbia think we're the best, that's what elections show, from election to election. Here, the second in power of the party, which was in the coalition, so the Democratic Party was in a coalition with HDZ and with the party Rasi Ljajic, SDP, so the three parties together received 300,000 votes less than the Serbian Radical Party. Are extremists the ones who voted for Serbian radicals? No, they're not. As long as someone wants to share people like Kostunica in such a way, at some point I may do, to get closer to radicals, they will prefer me to be loved by ordinary people, and as soon as they attack for two days, with the worst and stupidest things, on B92, which insult elementary intelligence; Toma Nikolic became president of the Assembly that day, I don't know what happened, approximately, so Toma Nikolic is guilty, that he became Prime Minister can't be guilty, not the President of the Assembly. Well, 100 days is waiting for the government, not the President of the Assembly, who has no executive authority, my people! What kind of land do we live in today? We live in a country of lies and fraud, in a country where Tadic and Kostunica will cheat on people all the time, say they are the only ones that are normal, and everything will work abnormally, and everything against Serbia will work. Their only goal will be how we can continue to rule more. Have you noticed a single syntagma - "for the past 15 years"? Masters, you have ruled for more than seven years! You, like Tito, want to rule for 300 years? I said this metaphorically, I don't think Broz really ruled for 300 years. Do you think it takes so long for you to rule, that no one can change you, and that you can play with both people, and with the citizens of the state, and with the state and with the political parties? One more thing, I apologize, Mr. Gristle. They thought they were playing with Tom Nikolic, so now we've cheated on Tom Nikolic, how we're great players. That's what Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS imagine. Now I'm going to give you one analysis, and the living were in two months to tell me, when we see a public opinion survey, whether I was right or wrong. The Democratic Party of Serbia will not have 6% of the vote in two months, due to the betrayal and fraud of Serbian citizens, not Tomislav Nikolic, not SRS, but what they have done as far as Serbian and Serbian states and citizens are concerned. I'm telling you today and you'll see it. So Tom Nikolic's fault and each of us in the SRS is in the following: Now I'm talking about what you said about Dužianca, about the Ustashas who came, who meet with the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, and no one can say that. I'm waiting for tomorrow for that scum to call me someone who speaks hate language, or I don't know what. I ask how can Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic meet with a tough Ustasha, an open follower of Ante Pavelic? Will you forbid me to ask that too? Of course that's a good question. What are we doing? We were doing it to try to get Serbia's hope back, so we can keep it, show it to people, here, we'll do our best. We know how much we risk, we know, we even thought that there was a possibility and that we were deceived, but we said – however, they gave the word, and they insisted on it, not so quickly that they would not cheat on us but on Serbia and its citizens. Yeah, but they're a lot faster than we thought we cheated on both Serbia and its citizens, by the way. If it's our fault that we wanted Serbia well, that we wanted Serbia to be better than it is today, to make Serbia a better perspective and a better future than it is today... Do you people see tonight, today, since they announced the shift of Tomislav Nikolic, a smiling face in Serbia? Have you seen anyone who's very happy? I'm no one in Serbia, except for these in the O.R., I don't know how many 40-50 are, who are very happy about it, and I've never seen anyone else. That, dear friends, is the point. The people here want to have a chance for Serbia, and the DSS and DS, I won't even talk about these criminals, as this encrypted group is called, about them and not to speak, it doesn't matter, they took away every hope from the citizens of Serbia. What is it with us to do, what is it with us to do? It's ours not to say – oh, it's terrible and it's hard for us... It may be, but, as I said, we are proud of what Toma Nikolic has been doing these few days, and how he's holding on tonight and what Serbian radicals are doing, but we have to fight, we have to win over Serbia, we have to win because of our children, because otherwise Serbia won't have a future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u901	Mr. Zarko Obradovic, replica, and Mr. Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, I answered on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to respond to what Mr. Canak said. Namely, he came out to replicate to Mr. Vukic, and then he told such a hilly story: he started with Lika, moved on to Subotica, talked about Kostunica, along the way caught Kosovo, talked about Le Pen and, of course, amounted to a lot of inaccuracies. He mentioned Milosevic in a context that he absolutely does not deserve. Mr. Canak, pick your words when you're talking about a dead man and you're not making false claims. You had time and you had a voice, you had the opportunity to tell him what you were thinking, even if he was guilty, to file a criminal report. You know well that he was arrested by DOS on a false charge, taken to prison and kidnapped. You heard tonight from MP Dacic and how he was kidnapped, handed over to The Hague tribunal. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and 1999, the second part of the story, which is rarely heard in this esteemed home, is a story told by Montgomery and Madlen Albright, that they bombed Serbia in 1999 to exempt Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia's composition and give it to the Albanian administration. I think it's supposed to be a lesson for all of us when we talk about friends, and for those of us who think they are, and for those of us who don't think they are. The whole point would be if we in Serbia had a common view of what Serbia wants and how Serbia can achieve what it wants, rather than accuse each other or slander each other. This was pure slander, a couple of excellations, and especially against a man who is dead and should not be dragged through the political mud that exists in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u903	Miss Nadica Momirov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u904	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 4. The People's Messenger told me the lie before me. And, for the sake of truth, let me tell you something: since the Dužijanca is repeatedly mentioned, since I am a national envoy from Subotica, for information, Dužijanca is a traditional ceremony in Subotica for harvesting cereals. All citizens are invited to the ceremony, and usually about 1,000 citizens are present. Also, citizens' representatives have always been invited, whether committees, MPs or any other officials. The Dužjanci you talk about so much was attended by a folk MP from the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Gojko Radic. He was absolutely present in Duzijanca, at a gathering where 1,000 citizens were present. He's seen, he's recorded, there's evidence of it. Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic was present as a Saturday girl there. At the time, she was Deputy Prime Minister. It is absolutely clear that she will be present at such a ceremony in her town. Neither did she ever have any meetings with Djapic, nor was she at lunch, at which Mr Gojko Radic was also present. Please, don't talk anymore, it's a shame you're doing this, because you defile such a ceremony in Subotica and thus endanger the interests of the citizens of Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u905	The word has Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Canak, replica, please give me some patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u906	Mr. Chairman, my impression is that this debate is becoming pointless. I think we should respect Mr Nikolic's well-willed and morally moral political stance to allow us this debate, because according to the Rules of Procedure, he didn't have to do it at all. And, if I have already answered, and the propo of some findings here, let Ivana Dulic-Markovic go, there is a much greater crime against Serbian agriculture than she has received Ustasha. Mr. Canak opened the memorial bank of Jelačić in Petrovaradin, and then some political tendencies did not bother him. In addition, Mr. Canak and others here brought in uninformed MPs, and some of the Serbian public who wants to believe that, about some facts... Which one? First, Yugoslavia didn't break, it was broken. The other thing is, they are not Serbs in war with the Shiptars or Albanians. If it were a Serb-Albanian or a Serb-Sceptar conflict, we would not have been scratched. Today it's clear to all of us that for some reason, not to explain all the historical facts, we probably bothered someone, whether because we're being ourselves, whether the geography tells us that we built a house on the road, or simply we weren't historically smart enough, we were actually in conflict with the international community. Serbia is not negotiating today either. The difference between Rambouje and Vienna is only that it was negotiated there with Madeline Albright, and here it was negotiated by Martti Ahtisaari and only the difference is that the Serbs and Albanians managed to sit. So everything else, gentlemen, as far as the international community is concerned, is more or less the same. Serbia needs 13% of the territory. One more thing, when I talked about the alleged Serb-Albanian conflict, which was not there, it was said here that the question is that Kosovo is a human rights issue. Here is the issue of human rights in Kosovo today, but Serbs and members of other non-Albanian communities, and no one will bomb the Shipares for it. And relations with Montenegro were a question of democracy. Well, today we have democratic authority in both Serbia and Montenegro, so Montenegro is left alone. It's all something we can talk about. Mr. Canak, every war, and we've been at war with the NATO Pact, ends with some peace treaty, and of course such a peace agreement has its own military annex. The Kuman agreement is no capitulation, a normal military annex of the peace agreement reached and which was official in the United Nations through Resolution 1244, which is now served both Tadic and Kostunica. After all, the problems both Tadic and Kostunica face today are well the same, and sometimes their performances in the United Nations, such as those problems and those solutions offered by Mr Milosevic while he was in power in Serbia, gentlemen. To avoid getting into the controversy now, I want to invite you to something else; well said Mr. Todorovic, perhaps even dinner; let's get back to the topic, we have 20 more speakers. Let's really go back, so I can say a word about what's politically happening here, and these crackdowns, the burnings, it seems to me, and in the previous session of this House, the citizens have listened and I'm afraid there will be plenty more opportunities. Just one more finding, if a Serbia is intimidated by war, then Serbia is neither military nor economic, nor security, except perhaps for a part of the war against terrorism that we already had in Kosovo, is not ready for any of it. We need to rely on Serbian unity, we need to rely on our minds, on those who want to be our allies, so that's Russia, and try to keep Kosovo inside Serbia. So I invite you once again from this pay phone, which the Socialists have done several times. As far as we're concerned, you can see what's being chaired by the Socialists again, but not on a daily basis, but when it comes to socialists... Well, a little bit of me here to cheer for my party, as you all cheer for your parties. Come on, people, let's get in the head and talk these 20 people out. There is, unfortunately, a principled or unprincipled, however, parliamentary majority, who wants to elect a government, and what kind of government it will be and how long it will last, we will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u907	The word has Mr. Canak, a replica, so Mr. Radic, a replica and, hopefully, then Mr. Petrovic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u908	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would, given that three MPs mentioned me in their discussions, still held one type of united reply, namely a united replica, so I will answer everyone. First of all, as far as the Kumanovo Agreement is concerned (I would start with Mr. Bajatovic), if the annex of the peace agreement is leaving part of the territory, then this was indeed an annex of the peace agreement. I'd remind you, not every war ends in peace, but someone wins or loses. Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, lost in the war, and therefore left part of the territory she had left, and it was against the constitutional provisions under which no one has the right to sign the capitulation and no one has the right to leave part of the territory. That's the first thing. The second thing, you mentioned the opening of the memorial board to Ban Jelačić. It's true, I've discovered it, but I'd like to, just for your knowledge, for those of you who don't know the thing, to say something. Josip Jelačić was born in Petrovaradin, about 500 meters from where I live. Josip Jelacic is handled by the patriarch of Serbian Joseph Rajacic. Josip Jelacic, along with the Serbian army, freed cities in Vojvodina. This was all happening on the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ban Jelačić, on the slopes of Fruska up, which for us Vojvodjane has a completely special meaning. On Fruška gora is Sremska Kamenica, where the Bible was translated into Hungarian, the Husit Bible, for the first time in 1525, and that place is an extremely important place in the spiritual life of the Hungarian people. There are 14 Serb monasteries in the same Frusk mountain, where, among other things, the bones of Emperor Lazar were preserved when there was no place for them in Serbia. So these are all the things that make the Frust Mountain a holy mountain for us in Vojvodina, and that is why, in terms of understanding of all the peoples who live in Vojvodina, and they are many, mutual respect for the sanctity and historical monuments, is the way that we in Vojvodina try to live, despite the efforts of some other parts of our country. As for the extradition of Milosevic, Mr Vukic, and I would ask you to listen to me, I was absolutely against the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, for one reason: by handing Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague he was automatically amnested by half of his guilt, because in The Hague he was tried only for wars and war crimes, and not for the crimes he committed towards his own people, bringing him into wars, which caused Serbs throughout the former Yugoslavia to die, and for which we came in the position of all Serbs in one country, to make the borders of Serbia become those avionic borders, even reduced to Kosovo. This is the merit of Slobodan Milosevic, and for all of this he had to answer to domestic courts, including another very important thing, which is that this is exactly the kind of policy that led him to put us in a position to lose international credibility to the extent that no sports, artistic and any other success can bring him back. I'd say one more thing, Mr. Nikolic, I'm wearing this black shirt because I'm deeply sad about Serbia and where you brought her. There's something else I wanted to say. It is said of Russian President Mr Putin, who said in 2001 that he was not interested in the people who so handed over his president. I will also remind you that Russian troops have retired from Kosovo since 1999 and I will not speak again. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: It's not true. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u909	He has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please be patient. I'm asking MPs for a little more patience, or we'll take a longer break. Here you go, Light One.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u910	I think the way that Mr. Canak chose is the easiest: to break down a series of insults and inaccuracy, arbitraryness, not to talk at all about the subject of the agenda, offend a dead man, neglecting historical facts, and then say - well, I'm not going to say anything anymore, and don't anyone ask me any more and call me. Especially since 2000, there has been a tendency among people sitting in this home who like to call themselves Democrats, who are simply not ready to publicize any facts related to the events of the 1990s, let alone mention the responsibility of countries that call themselves the international community for breaking down the SFRY. My colleague Dusan Bajatovic said well. It's a story that's been back for years and that's, unfortunately, so few people want to talk about it. Yugoslavia has been broken and is the essence of who made the great countries, and who of the small people helped to do so. There is now a series of books, interviews, statements and a lot of evidence, facts and documents that support that Yugoslavia has been broken, because it has been on the path to the interests of some major forces. You can't, Mr. Canak, accuse Milosevic of some things, except for the daily political purposes, which you did during the 1990s. But the man is dead and he can't defend himself. Yet there are the Socialists to say, in favour of a policy that was in the 1990s and what was done to our country, as things were. Do not think that we will stand by and deafen ourselves about what you are talking about and that we will not tell the public of Serbia that things were standing. It's a long story and it would take a long time to tell about the 1990s, but one is a fact. Almost none of you Democrats, as you call yourself, mentioning UN sanctions, almost no one mentions the bombing actions, also Markale, Vasa Miskina, the contribution of Serbia to the Serbian people outside Serbia's borders, to be helped to fight there. I will say something about Croatia, that the number of Serbs is down from 12% to three percent. Only Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were expelled, 250,000 according to the EU report. Those are the facts, after everything that's been in these spaces. It really doesn't make sense to talk ugly about Milosevic, because you remind me of this UN prosecutor who came here to Serbia a month or two ago that with representatives of NGOs, he's been tear-diving how, behold, Milosevic wasn't convicted, because it was planned to be convicted so that they justify the reason for their existence and hundreds of millions of dollars spent. We know that a great policy requires justification, the UN tribunal and is founded to justify this policy, but unfortunately, there are also small people here in Serbia who justify such a policy. Well, we won't stand by; Serbia is doing and Serbia's future is working, we need to talk about these things in order to know what as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a state of Serbia, we have to and should do to make Serbia strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u911	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u912	Miss Momirov, if I didn't say the other part of the name so you wouldn't get it wrong, because I see you're seeing radicals terribly. If Hope was your name, I'd say it, but it doesn't pronounce me otherwise, so she won't ask me until Saturday, you by Subotic, but I'd say something about the truth, about this Parliament and the public watching. You've said well, but of all the things you've said the only truth is that Dužjanca is a beautiful rebel custom, a beautiful old custom that the Bunjevs cherish and keep. But the SRS has not participated in this custom since 2001, when Joseph Kasa and his Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Dukes' Union kidnapped their custom from the Bunjevacs. The Croats never, I lived in Croatia and I know it, they didn't have a Dužian. Now it's a Croatian custom. Since the moment Jozef Kasa and the Alliance of Dukes of Croats began bringing leaders from Croatia, the SRS has not participated in the Dužijan events. We feel sorry for the rebels, and they complain for their custom, because it's no longer theirs, it's been taken from them. Now we see some customs that have never been implemented in Croatia, but what is there. Miss Nadice Momirov, I believe I'm younger and I'm not married, since you know me, that you're a Sobotiac, that it was somewhere at night, so you're seeing Gojko Radic somewhere, that you saw me, that it might be possible. I did not, however, cross the Saturday square that day and have never participated in the 2000 event. Nor did I participate in the events on September 1st, the Day of Subotica, since you declared the day, violently, of the city of Subotica, and then for the first time Maria Teresa declared the day of Subotica and the gates of the city said: "The Serbs, the gypsies and the Jews are forbidden to enter." I can tell you that the SRS does not participate in such events and I ask you to know that for public reasons. I also ask you, for the sake of the public, to bring any document or photograph, since the whole event has been taken, to the next assembly session and show where Gojko walked in the square and where he sat, where he sat. We did not participate, and we excluded one councilman from the SRS because he took part in the celebration on September 1st, the Day of Subotica, because the SRS respects all nations and national minorities, and not like you who call yourselves Democrats or you call yourself coded, who you have forbidden the entry of Serbs, gypsies and Jews into the city, so you hold our letter on democracy. Here's my colleague Mr. Dulic from Subotica, who is a candidate; I hope you will keep him, that you will not change his name as you did last time this woman changed. But nothing of you would surprise us, because by tomorrow morning, you don't know what might happen to you. He can testify that these facts are true and true. I just don't know, Miss Momirov, what will be your party's name, because it's likely that Mrs. Dulic will leave the party because she hasn't satisfied her appetites. And instead of what you've been called - G15, now you'll be called G14, because one by one they're leaving, already three of your distinguished experts have gone. I don't believe that you have the right to wear that code G17 anymore, it's best to be G14, because if we start to chat and look further, you wouldn't even exist, you'd probably be called the 00 party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u913	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u914	I only volunteered for clarifications to Mr. Cank, because someone probably misinformed him, I guess, to be smart and to tell him that the Russians left Kosovo in 1999. That's not true. The Russians left the airport in 1999, and under a lot of pressure, I'd say after a deal they made with the Americans themselves. As Mr. Chanak was about to say, it wasn't in Putin's time, as I was saying here. For the sake of truth, it was in Putin's time, since Djindjic and Kostunica failed to fulfill what they promised Vladimir Putin, which happened in 2001. By the way, we also have this information from people who worked directly to supply Russian troops in Kosovo and Metohija, as Vladimir Putin prepared twice the number of troops for Kosovo and Metohija. They have already prepared all plans and projects, provided full logistics, but following Kostunica and Djindjic's decision to arrest Milosevic, namely to extradite him to The Hague tribunal, the decision was fully withdrawn. That's how much truth she's doing. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Canak, to be better informed, as well as those who don't know who they're seeing, only they don't see Anta Djapic, who they usually meet. As for our topic tonight and everything that's going on, I think it's important that we hear one argument from the DSS representatives, except that Tomislav Nikolic did well, which we knew ourselves, that he showed tolerance, respect for democratic tradition. I just need to ask if the DSS members have any kind of discomfort because they are replacing a man who was guaranteed to stay there because of Serbia's future, just so he doesn't give up anywhere, not in any way. They say he worked well and now, because of Serbia's future, they choose a new one, which he announced to them yesterday on the Pink TV show that Kosovo and Metohija are not interested in him, that he is only interested in the European future and that he does not want the European future of Serbia to fail because of Kosovo and Metohija, which means in translation: and when they take Kosovo, we will be interested in the European Union, we do not care, we will somehow get over it. I'm asking you, do you have any consciences? Is there any morals here? Come out and tell me what's not true. You said Tomislav Nikolic was not told it was a political project in the future. I told you, I listened to exactly what the DSS representatives said about Tomislav Nikolic, I can go from "a" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to "s" to say" to you again. But much worse than words is a way – Tomo, don't accidentally give in, don't ever, ever, under any pressure to give in, don't by any chance make you quit, because it's Serbia, its future. To come in three days later and say, "I'm sorry, we were joking about Serbia and what happened to its future," our priorities changed a little bit, we see the future differently now, not both Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, but Euro-Atlantic integration. Another question for all of you: that Atlantic integration, what does that mean? I think I know the geography well. Is that in the Atlantic? If that's in the Atlantic, tell me if we should all jump to the Atlantic, go to Morocco, Portugal, where, what, what's the point? What does that have to do with Kosovo and Metohija, except take it away from us? My question for you is: and what about Javier Solana who cannot determine the security services and how the security system works in Serbia? What's your answer to that? Your answer to that is -- here, Tadic, that's why we criticized you and attacked you, here's to you all security services, here's to making Solana right, here's to listening to you, here's to showing you that Solana is a god and a beating in this country. Is that how you run the country? Do you think anyone in history will ever write about what you used to do? Well, he won't. Do you think anyone's going to write about Solana? Only Serbs want to remember him as a criminal who killed little Milic Rakic. Let me remind you, that's the one you kiss your hands to, that's the one you stand still before when he gives you an order and a phone, let alone when you see it. The point is either the Serbian citizens will have a chance to choose a different future or we will continue to depend on what Tadic and Kostunica will sell us as their national interests. And their national interests will only be that they can rule forever, and absolutely nothing and never again. If this is politics, if we are to say that we are receiving Darko Rundek, receiving water polo players, basketball players, handball players and all others, because I am besides inviting Serbs to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, to listen to Solana every time and in what way he commands him, I don't know what else he did to Boris Tadic. Today I see that Vojislav Kostunica is the same, if not worse than Boris Tadic. It is the greatest happiness in the great disaster that has struck our people. The greatest happiness in the disaster that has hit our people is that tonight the citizens of Serbia could see one thing, that there is no difference between Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic, that they are completely equal. I just ask the citizens, if I may allow myself to, the next time we say Vojislav Kostunica is the same as Dinkic and Tadic, it means bad for Serbia, they don't tell us - well, we have to go somewhere with someone. We have to go with the people, we have to go with the citizens, but together we have to beat all three, who are the evil of Serbia, who are equal to Serbia, and that is Kostunica, and Tadic and Dinkic, and there is no difference between them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u915	The word is Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u916	Dear Chairman, here I am, as my colleague Canak, to promise not to report for the line again, since I no longer see him in the O.R. I just want to say one more thing. The aim of the SPS parliamentary group is not to obstruct the election of a new government. I don't think it's really good to still be, now it's 15 minutes to two... It's pointless to answer to a man who's not in the O.R. And, Mr. Ban Jelasic, the pure reality works, had some other activities besides those Mr. Canak mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u918	I don't know if Mr. Canak is here, he's not that important, it's important that we give citizens who look at us at this hour a little instruction on the use of Mr. Chank. You really need to make things a little bit clearer here. I dare use that word to challenge his intellect. Namely, "I dare" sounds a little ironic, cynical, just like he does, and how he sees us all from some imaginary, intellectual height, masterly engaged in demagogy. It's all seasoned with a solid dose of humor, and by nature it's a charmer. Tonight, this high-minded intellectual used Ban Josip Jelačić to prove some of his claims. As a top demagogue, he used historical facts, which are well known to all of us, about the role of Ban Jelačić in this revolutionary 1848, which was rumbling through Serbian cities and villages. Of course, all this is true, but he forgot to say that ban Jelačić today is one of the foundations of Croatian not nationalism, but of chauvinism; it is not a monument set in the middle of Zagreb, and where its saber is pointed you can only assume it. Of course, that's why, for exactly the same reason he went to Vukovar, and he opened that memorial board at the birth home of Ban Jelačić; that's all true, of course. Explaining what happened to Ban Jelačić, we will find other facts, which can easily explain a large number of votes if they really came from Croatia. There are no few Serbs, there are no 4% of Serbs, there are no 12% of Serbs, there are all Serbs, but the Serbs who are in the first stage, these present-day Croats, cataclysed, and only later, by the rebellious work of people such as Rački or Strosmeyer, are also given the Croatian people's name. Their feelings work when they're alone with them and they don't have a correction from their parishioners or their righteous neighbors. When they're alone, they vote for the Serbs. I'd like to draw citizens' attention to one more thing. (Chairman: Please stick to the time. Tonight it turns out that it is not only the Democratic Party of Serbia that is unprincipled and has no face. Once again, G17 plus proved it. They said, or their president, that they would not be in the hall (on the Democratic Party there is no discussion, that is all known) as long as Mr Tomislav Nikolic is the speaker of the assembly. But they're here. So they don't respect what they said. One more little detail and I'll be done. My esteemed colleague Gojko Radic referred to Mrs Nadice's exposure (I think that's her real name), in which she explained everything, but she didn't touch the key things – whether Djapic was there or not; if he was, who invited him. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u919	Mr. Cvetanović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u920	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a violation of Article 103 – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. He's referring to Mr. Nenad Chank's exposure, he talked all the time about the war. Every country is allowed to dream of freedom and celebrate freedom. In each democratic country, freedom of opinion is allowed, which, of course, does not endanger anyone's rights under the law and the Constitution. When Europe defends citizens' interests through the Partnership for Peace, it is said to defend human rights, peace and freedom. Then you don't say war. When Serbs defended the human rights of the people, above all in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, the rights of an individual as a citizen, it was a hate speech. Then it's even war. Then you don't say peace. By what laws do we discriminate people and states by dividing them into superiors and citizens of the second order? In a Europe that respects us equally and recognises us, we will, because that is the only way we love Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u921	Thank you, Mr. Cvetanović. Finally, Mr Dusan Petrovic. He's talking like the head of the Parliament Club, so he's got 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u922	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of Tomislav Nikolic's resolution as speaker. I'm not going to repeat today the reasons I presented at a very long session that we had on Monday. At that session, Tomislav Nikolic was elected parliament speaker. The session held a serious debate on whether the Serbian Parliament's election could not be a political issue and whether it could be a technical issue. Of course not, it is not possible to choose the president of the Assembly, and that this does not have a very serious political meaning and that it does not open up a new space for the political direction in which the country is going. It has not been a long time, not a full week, and I think in a very clear way Mr Tomislav Nikolic has shown the most important points of the Serbian Radical Party's policy, he has shown the direction of the Serbian Radical Party. It simply couldn't have been different, it would have been unnatural if it were different. If the head of one not only of a large party but also of a smaller party were to come to the post of president of the Assembly without showing what the essence of his policy is, it would not be natural. I think we've got the resolution of a dilemma that we had in the Assembly, whether it can be the election of the president of Parliament's technical matter or not. In these few days, and I think I'm going to stick to those two things, we've got two very important positions that Parliament's president has put forward. Responding to the reactions that his choice caused in the European Union, the European Union countries, Mr Nikolic made it very clear, two or three days ago, that he, from the Eurosceptic position he was in, became an opponent of the European Union. It's a clear political stance. That is the stance the Serbian Radical Party has at the moment. Now I'm going to say a few things about what I think is important for our country's policy towards Russia, according to a very important country, a permanent member of the Security Council, a country that is very important at a time when Serbia is leading a big, strong, cramped and legal fight to preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state. The deep confidence of the Democratic Party is that our foreign policy must rest on three pillars if we are to exploit the greatest capacity possible and protect the interests of our citizens. One of those three pillars is Russia, one of those three pillars is the European Union and one of those three pillars is the United States. It is a difficult policy, which, in our deep conviction, must lead Serbia to protect its interests. In numerous contacts that we had with Russian officials, which the president of Serbia had with President Putin and which we had at different levels with Russian state officials, we received very open support for Serbia's approach to the European Union. That's what I'm saying here, because that's the attitude I've personally received in the different contacts I've had with Russian Federation officials. I am convinced that the very serious and major improvement of economic relations with Russia is beneficial and good for Serbia and that it should be with this great country – which has led through history a friendly policy towards Serbia, which we have never had conflicts with, but we have been at a greater or less distance, depending on different historical circumstances – to deepen these relations and that this is the interest of Serbia and Russia. My deep belief is that Russia's deepest interest in the Balkans is that Serbia, which has a strong relationship with Russia, becomes a member of the European Union as soon as possible. It's the Democratic Party's policy. I will mention a very strong moment that Tomislav Nikolic, the speaker of parliament, has presented during these few days during the chairmanship of our assembly. In one of the polemics, he made it very clear that he wouldn't mind being one of the Russian provinces as a state or as a leper. It is not possible to fight to save 15% of its territory, which Serbia now does when Kosovo and Metohija are at stake, in a good way and do with great power, if you have the idea that your country can in general lose its sovereignty and that it is a desirable policy. Also, the very clear position that we received from Russian officials afterwards is that there are no touching points with the policy Russia has towards Serbia. I'm talking about facts, and I want to inform the public and the MPs of these facts. So it is not possible to make a decision on the election of the speaker of the assembly without the decision being political. We had a very clear policy led by the President of the Assembly for this short time, and that's the policy that the SRS is fighting for. It's their right, they have the right to do it. The Democratic Party has different objectives and a different policy, because we believe that the interests of our citizens and our countries can be protected and improved only if a completely different policy is being conducted. A good life, a reduction in unemployment, and this is not without major investment in this country, is not possible, it is my deep confidence, if we do not continue, to speed up and to complete Serbia's entry into formal EU membership as soon as possible. The European future of Serbia is the protection of the interests of every man living in this country. That's what he's up for, that's what he's fighting for, and that's what the Democratic Party's gonna fight for. I am sure that the Serbian citizens will make such a decision in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u923	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am almost fascinated by the untruths, as if he had taken over from the DSS that note of corruption by Mr Petrovic when he spoke of, for God's sake, the objections that were at the expense of Tomislav Nikolic, as brothers per mother, and then boasted about what their goals were. Did you see a great goal; like, Petrovic appeared with a great goal, ingenious – dear citizens, we want a good life. Imagine what a magnificent goal it is for Mr Petrovic. There is only one problem in realisation: not a good life for you, Mr Petrovic, for this one beside you and for "an example", but for the citizens of Serbia, Mr Petrovic; not that he has 11m euros, but that the citizens have 11m euros. That's what we're different about, Mr. Petrovic. That's the difference between DS and SRS. According to Petrovic, we will be in the EU, the EU's priority goal is to give me five, those idiotic ones, because nothing else does man but take pictures of me, hey give me five, give me the ball to put in the basket. Is that the job of the President of the Republic? What is the essence of this policy? What's this about? It's their job to tell the people, yes, it's a bit of a hijacking of Kosovo, it's Ollie Rehn and Javier Solana who take away our Kosovo and Metohija, it's those who will take our territory, but it doesn't matter, we're stronger than that, we're above that. Let go of the territory of someone there, which is Kosovo and Metohija, we have lived for the EU, Ren, Solana, Guzenbauer, which you have already agreed on how to surrender Kosovo, but that this goes as easily as possible and not to be seen in the Serbian people. Mr. Petrovic, it's not a policy, it's a misery and what, it's kissing a lap and nothing else, that "p" of politics didn't see. That's: dear Solana, did you say that I'm acting like that, that dear Solana, I'm going to act like one. Dear Carla, did you say that Rade Bulatovic must not be BIA boss, you are dear Carla; dear Carla, will not be Rade Bulatovic head of BIA. Are you, my dear Solana, for me to be head of all security services, because they are threatened, I don't know what's threatened, something is threatened, Solana says; here, the Corporal of Solana became head of all security services. That's politics? It is not politics, it is the misery of Serbia, Mr Petrovic, which, misery and misery of Serbia, Mr Petrovic, not the politics of Serbia. To quote Mr Aligrudic, he was absolutely right, but on Monday, he spoke the truth and spoke honestly, until after that he went into the most difficult con of Serbia and its citizens. Everything Aligrudic told you on Monday is true. Unfortunately, what if, Mr. Aligrudic, in the meantime, you accepted everything that you, Mr. Aligrudic, would have, if what you were judging... Did you read Solana's letter, it's not even a letter, a statement by Solanina, somewhere he said on the way, just a little stick to hit them on the head and nothing else. He was read by Aligrudić, and in the end he did everything he had ordered, gave everything to the yellow ones, and nothing more. Mr. Micunović, thank you again for the theory of evolution, I used several times tonight. There's always something to learn from you. Something else dear friends, the Democratic Party's policy -- we're on three pillars, it sounds good to the people, the people would like us to be good with the Russians, with the Americans and with the EU, and that we all live well, not only Djelic. So, it's gonna be really nice for everyone and everyone to be able to travel. Have you noticed one more thing, there's no more serious problem in our country than where they're going to travel? In the 2004 elections, Boris Tadic put his hand like this, in his pocket, against Tom Nikolic, put his hand in his pocket and said... It is, when he was attacked by a dog from another car, they arrested a man and held him for a month, a cymple or something, the assassination of the famous when he was. Now, then Boris Tadic appeared in front of one of the embassy, I will remind you, he says – my key goal is never to have these visas again, that people are not standing in line. You, people, are still in power, you have the president of Serbia, you have all the power, we just got visas for Romania and Bulgaria, and in the meantime none of them have been removed. We're not in power, Mr. Petrovic, but you don't have any policy. It's just a policy of deception, lies, pure fraud. When he hits you on the head, and you tell him, hit him harder, I love you even more. That's your policy, Mr. Petrovic. It can't be a normal policy, it can't be a policy of the future. The policy of the future must be rational, to say – and what is it that makes Ollie Ren and Javier Solana take our territory? What makes them? What's the problem with them and why they don't respect only international law, they don't have to love Serbs. For Solana, we know he doesn't like Serbs. He wouldn't kill so many Serbs if he loved them. Let's see what makes them not respect international law. You don't have that. So, totally ideologically blind approach, living the EU, hit us as hard as you can, and we will praise you so much. This kind of half-tronic policy, this kind of policy, even from the goloot time, which is repeated, is the worst on the globe of the Earth. It will bring Serbia to the lowest possible branches, and you will continue to talk about the world and the bright goal of entering the EU, according to your friend Cobel, in 20-25 years. In 20-25 years, in the ordinary people who are alive, who are dead, and Boza Djelic will have one 250m euros, if she doesn't cross a billion after this 11th, and she'll yell - bravo Bozo, I have 250m, not 11, and you people die here from all the trouble. It's not politics, Mr Petrovic, it's Serbia's downfall. You Tomislav Nikolic have nothing to object to. You've just come out tonight to say something, because "the corporal on Solana" is watching, so let's say something against Tom. That was the only reason you said that. We will soon ask you, as finance minister, for various matters, only you will have to take special care of the accounts of Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. You'll have the most questions about that. Well done, Bozo, 250 million! If it is a year of imprisonment, the citizens of Serbia will first of all wonder and be interested. Young is God, it's no problem for him, he'll last until 89. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has no politics, never had one. The only policy of the DS has always been contained in two sentences that repeat over and over again, and that is – to whom it is moral, to go to church, and to peoples and workers who do not have bread and work, go and sow peanuts. The policy of peanuts and the politics of immorality has experienced, and will only experience, failure in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u925	Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u926	Unfortunately for me, the manner in which a number of insults, untrues, slanders are still present, but it's always a sign of weakness. When you curse other people, when you tell them the truth, it means you don't have faith in yourself and you don't have faith in the fact that you don't have faith in your own idea and your own politics. No dilemma, for any of us in this room, nor for the people who live in this country, is it any secret that the Democratic Party considers that the unsustainable and impossible policy of the Serbian Radical Party, and vice versa. I don't want to use hard words, because I believe what I'm saying, I believe in facts and I believe in the idea of European Serbia. So this dilemma is only possible in one way in a civilised world to solve -- in elections. That is why I believe in the firm commitment and firm conviction of the citizens of this country, and that is why we will be in the European Union long before anyone thinks so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u927	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't noticed the swearing, I don't know if Mr. Petrovic hears well. I've noticed some strange things happening, but I don't want to talk about whether it's all good or not in this room. I have to tell you, Mr. Petrovic, is it 2032 or when? Are we going to have Kosovo and Metohija or not? Tell the citizens of Serbia, Mr Petrovic. Now I'm asking you a few serious questions, and then we'll see what you're afraid of choices. First of all, the Democratic Party feared the election, as did the DSS. The Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Aligrudic, has entered with spies and traitors into the government. That's what he said. I respect your words, Mr. Aligrudic, you were absolutely right. Mr. Petrovic came in with those who wear hooligans, and they still have their ears ripped every day. I see they go into the coalition with those who put a sock on their heads. Let's just drop all these games and all the things you've been telling each other and what you think about each other. Let's see why you agreed, Mr. Petrovic. You don't think anyone's gonna believe that you're thinking about Serbia or I don't know what, when everyone knows that you're just thinking about how much and what to take about NIS, EPS, barracks and everything else. You made a deal for something else. One thing is to help Solana and friends kidnap Kosovo and Metohija; another motive is, these are the only two motives that exist, to stay away from the choices as far away as you can – run for as long as you know, just so we don't go out to the radicals on the line right now, both of them, because we would pass as barefoot on the thorn. Now you're doing fine, because after three and a half months of harassing citizens, you're going to form this government of spies, traitors, and, as I say, hoodlums and all that. So, since you're going to form this government after all, then it's nice to yell "choice" when you've escaped the election. Mr Petrovic, the key question is: what are we going to do if the EU kidnaps Kosovo and Metohija? Will you continue to say "lively European Union", if they recognise independent Kosovo? That's my question for you. Isn't that a question? It is a dispute for us, Mr Petrovic, because for us Kosovo and Metohija is more important than Belgium, and from Luxembourg, and from Malta, and from the Netherlands, and from Estonia and from everything else. That's what we're different about, Mr. Petrovic. It's a huge difference between us. That's what you don't understand, what Aligrudic understood by Monday, and then, untraceably, disappeared somewhere. I only hope he didn't, Mr. Aligrudic, from what the Butts threatened. He's usually rude and brave whenever he finds someone who looks a little smaller to him, and as soon as someone who's much stronger than him comes, he's not supposed to show up and say anything. I'll defend you next time, at least it doesn't rip your ears off, if anything, so you don't worry about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here tonight facing the attempt of two false democratic parties to remove Tomislav Nikolic. Their six parties went to the elections, in the coalition: DS, HDZ, Rasim Ljajic, as three parties, went to DSS, New Serbia and Unique Serbia, and SDPO, as well as the National Party for Vojvodina. That's eight parties. So, these eight parties have totaled a little more than the SRS, I have to admit. Now I'm gonna say why. Just because the citizens of Serbia thought -- maybe this Kostunica is not a nepatriot, he's going with radicals to go to the coalition, you see that he said he wouldn't go with the "yellows", you see that he said about Boza Djelic that Mickey Mouse was the treasurer of Serbia's biggest criminal and I don't know what. That's why people voted for you. Who's going to vote tomorrow? For what? Because you and Petrovic are going to the coalition, which won't tell you whether it will be for the European Union and when they take away Kosovo and Metohija? What do you have nice to tell me about Ren and Solana, when every day they say they're for independent Kosovo? How do you violate the Constitution, how do you break this country's highest legal act? Did Ollie Rehn say it was for independent Kosovo? Yes, it is. Did Javier Solana say it was for independent Kosovo? And you still -- where our ass is Ollie Ren and Javier Solana, to get her as soon as possible and to get into it. It's your policy, the only policy you know how to implement. That's what Aligrudic said on Monday, and it's a great honor for him to analyze it. Few who could have analyzed it so well on Monday. And look what he's done now. Now he's going to run to the same place as you. That's Serbia's shame. Mr. Mrkonjic, thank you for your patience, I'm sorry for extending it a little bit, but I had to for the citizens of Serbia to understand what this is all about, to see that these can't say anything else, but only the EU, so the EU. It's like a once-in-a-lifetime CK. You remember that, Mr. Micunovic? You spoke, I say, as did the specimens. I know that, that's why I'm calling on you, you've always said that wisely, Mr. Micunovic. But there's a big problem, ladies and gentlemen, that this policy doesn't lead anywhere. That policy will be very soon... I hope you'll tell me tomorrow, as my political opponents – you see how wrong you are, Wolfie. I am afraid that in a few months because of this policy, we will be left without Kosovo and Metohija, and that someone will say – well, we have to live, we go forward, we go to the EU. There is no progress for Serbia if it runs out of Kosovo and Metohija. No Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, that's what you need to learn. There is no future for our children without Kosovo and Metohija. We are fighting in this National Assembly, not for the EU, not for Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, I wish them the most, or their far-fetched house, I don't care. We fight for Serbia, for our people, for our children. We have no alternatives to that and that is the difference between our policy and yours, Mr Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-12-0.u929	I thank the MPs for their tolerance and participation in the discussion. I interrupt the session and schedule a session for tomorrow, or at 11.00 p.m. today. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 133 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't receive a notice from the MPs about the absence. Confirmation of the mandate to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which confirmed that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Aleksandra Lazarevic and Miroslava Pejica, elected from the G17plus-Mladjan Dinkic election list. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that the mandate of the Members of the People is confirmed by ALEXANDRA LAZAREVIĆ and MIROSLAVI PAJICA. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal to relieve the responsibilities of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The National Envoy TOMSLAV NIKOLIĆ (continuation) For the discussion came yesterday, I did not have time to apologize to him and now I apologize, Mr Balint Pastor.
