ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12744	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICE LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party – one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus – 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 19 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Liberal Democratic Party – 11 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, The Union of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley – 7 minutes and 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM – 6 minutes. Messengers who do not belong to any member of the Parliament, one MP, five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr. Vuk Jeremic, the foreign minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12745	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, brought together in the system of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, conditions have been created for the Republic of Serbia to also receive the law on foreign affairs. The important area, the activities of state authorities and society in general so far has been governed by the 1998 Law on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro. With regard to the scope and historical importance of our country's current foreign policy activities, the draft law sought that the existing relations and behaviour of state authorities in the field of foreign policy and international relations would receive their legal basis, but also open the possibility of developing a modern diplomatic apparatus of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal also made sure that the provisions of the law on foreign affairs are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Ministrys, the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Servants, as well as the approved international agreements in the field of diplomatic and consular relations, which form part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and are directly applicable. I am referring to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, as well as the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. In addition, experience from other European countries in this type of legislation has been used in the draft law. The bill consists of six heads. The first chapter contains the introductory provisions which are dedicated to the content of the law and its relationship with other regulations. The second one defines jurisdiction in the field of foreign affairs, as well as the mutual relationship between the state authorities in the performance of external affairs. These relations are based on the principle of co-operation, which is achieved through mutual reporting and co-ordination of all foreign policy activities. Also, in this part, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been envisaged in relation to each area provided for by the Ministry Act, with other necessary tasks that this ministry has done in nature so far. Here we have an example: The Ministry proposes to set up or end diplomatic relations with other countries, join international organisations and integration, adopt a foreign development strategy and other measures that shape government policy, organise official visits at the state and diplomatic level. The Law on Foreign Affairs states that the Ministry consists of organisational units in the country and diplomatic and consular offices in other countries and international organisations, which, in accordance with the current regulations and practices of most countries of the world, represent the continent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, it is foreseen that the minister can establish advisory bodies and this is made up of prominent experts from the relevant fields, for example, foreign policy, international law, information, etc., and in order to further formulate the proposal for a foreign policy strategy and improve the overall activities of the Ministry. The members of the advisory bodies would not be in a working relationship with the Ministry, and their involvement is honorable in nature. Chapter 3 of the bill defines the process of opening and closing diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad, as well as giving consent to the opening of foreign and international organisations in the Republic of Serbia. The fourth chapter regulated the issue of the availability of immovable and mobile assets used by diplomatic-consular representations. The proposal for a law on foreign affairs provides for the difference between two categories of civil servants at the foreign ministry. The first group would include civil servants with diplomatic titles, who carry out diplomatic and consular work, and other civil servants with a high and medium degree of education, who carry out jobs in executive jobs and who do not have representative duties. The draft law provides for diplomatic titles, which in all terms correspond to existing divisions and are in line with the diplomatic practice of modern states. The bill sets out the difference between the diplomatic calling of ambassadors to the ministry as the highest in the calling hierarchy, which should be distinguished from the post of ambassadors as head of diplomatic mission, whom the President of the Republic appoints and recalls as an apparition. Such a definition is reflected in the fact that professional diplomats continue to work at the foreign ministry in calling ambassadors at the ministry after the term of office of the head of diplomatic mission. In particular, the rights and responsibilities of diplomatic employees stemming from the very nature of foreign affairs, particularly the work of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia, have been processed. The largest number of special rights provided for by this law have existed so far, either on the basis of the current Foreign Affairs Act, or on the basis of internal rules of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which have been applied in practice. Here I think of the right to compensate for the costs of moving, times and moving and other costs of staying abroad employees and members of their families, the right to compensate for the regular costs of schooling children, the right to compensate for the costs incurred in the event of the death of an employee abroad, etc. In this way, regulation of these special rights by the new law on foreign affairs will not additionally burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. The only exception would relate to the obligation of the State to bear health insurance and health care costs for employees of diplomatic and consular representations and their families. It is important to note that Serbia today is one of the few countries that do not provide health insurance to its diplomats during their work abroad. Payment provisions are in line with the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies and are practically already being applied and will not additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Lastly, the sixth head was arranged for the adoption of sublaws and other acts necessary for the more detailed regulation of certain issues related to this law, the termination of the 1998 Act on Foreign Affairs and the entry into force of this law. Given that the new law does not change the existing legal regime more significantly, the bill does not contain transitional norms, except when it comes to the provision of Article 51. The bill, relating to the compensation of health insurance costs, entered into force on 1 January 2009. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have 64 members of the new, modern law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, which is an essential part of the country's constitutional and legal framework. With this law, we are finally rounding up the legal regulation of our foreign affairs and the basis of the formation of our diplomacy, and we are balancing the systems of Serbia's foreign affairs and our international representation and representation. The law will also allow for institutional reform of the diplomatic service as the enforcer of the established policy of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. In the last few decades, we have witnessed the erosion of the material, personnel and organisational resources of our diplomacy. The collapse of the state, isolation and sanctions, were all factors in reversing and compromising once a prominent and powerful diplomatic service. After the change in 2000, conditions of a vaguely defined state and its foreign policy have been met, but diplomacy has also been addressed by times of different foreign policy challenges. Still, the situation is getting better today. We're on our way to serious organisational and structural reforms at the Ministry and our diplomatic and consular network, which I believe will give very quickly visible results. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is entering a year of major foreign policy challenges and serious temptations. First of all, I am thinking about the fight to preserve our country's territorial integrity and quickly join the EU. Every day, without a breath, diplomats and others who are in the service of implementing the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia are making huge efforts to realise these interests. This law essentially defines and strengthens our diplomacy. With this law, she can look to the future after a long time. It is important to point out that this law is not just for this moment, the law will create a basis for creating a modern and efficient diplomatic service, which will be in line with our European environment and our European plans. It will enable the diplomatic service to deal successfully with all foreign policy challenges and extremely dynamic trends in international relations. The law clearly tracks the activities of Serbia's diplomacy, which will defend our political, security, economic and national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, if art policy is possible, then Serbia's current foreign policy can be said to be almost impossible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today the pressure on Serbia is high and we all feel it. It's a historic challenge that we don't run away from and that we have to solve successfully. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to put aside the ideological and party differences that no doubt exist between us, and to support together this proposal for a law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law will, in my deep confidence, be another proof of the statehood of this respected home, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12746	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has a folk MP, Professor Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12747	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, by passing this law, we are entering a serious transition, primarily political institutions. The transition is a rather vague notion, a transition from something to something, but it is perfectly clear that it must mark the introduction of order among institutions. What marked our life in the previous period was the mixing of institutions, which was natural for a single-party system and for a dictatorial regime. Foreign policy was the policy of Joseph Broz, as in all countries where there is no democracy; whoever has power, politics is his, both internal and external, and he leads it. We had all these institutions on paper, and parliament, and foreign affairs, courts, governments, but all the government was in the party, or in its executive body or government. Each transition must therefore begin from every institution to find its place: both the government and parliament, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Courts. We will have one law in the National Assembly, because so far we have not had it, where each institution will then be clearly laid down in its jurisdiction. So much is one reform law, which means our normalization, simply, of the state as a legal institution. Of course, we held two discussions on this law on the Committee. We'll have another one when it comes to details. We have heard many useful opinions from the Committee members, and we have seen the ministry's good attitude towards objections and its willingness to adopt many of these remarks through amendments. Since this is one of these first transitional laws, it is normal and should be counted on by many shortcomings in the beginning, as well as on how it can be repaired and that we can do so at the very beginning. We have to arrange for the country to function, and this segment, which has been abandoned, besides, as many others. Staff policy was led, firstly, by police institutions, and then turned into a complete, I would say, disorganization of that service. The collapse of states, in any case, affects mostly foreign affairs, because there's been some kind of joint building in that administration, in the frames, and it needs to start all over again. The foreign ministry was probably one of the most abandoned institutions in the past. So they, representatives, through embassies and through that policy represent us in the world; it's the image of this country, it's the window through which the world is looking at us, and that's why it's very important that we do it institutionally first, and then, of course, humanely. What did the Committee insist on? The committee insisted on greater co-operation between the Assembly and the foreign ministry. There is today a trend in the development of parliamentary diplomacy in the world. You all know how many international organisations there are, how many parliamentary assemblies there are in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE, in the Black Sea initiatives, even NATO, etc. Therefore, there is a need for greater coordination of foreign policy, which is why it is important that the Committee has better co-operation with the Foreign Ministry. Of course, parliament controls the government, but the government runs politics, the president of the state represents a state, so all these institutions are intertwined somewhere in their responsibilities and, in order to avoid disputes, these relations must be highly precise, in this respect, the importance of this law. We will, of course, succeed through the amendments, hopefully, make this law as better and more efficient as possible, to serve our country and our reform idea, to make institutions improve and establish their relations with each other. We voted and most of the votes were in principle adopted this draft law; of course, in this debate there will be many members of the Committee and we will finally declare ourselves in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12748	Thank you, Professor. Dragoljub Micunović. Do the MPs, members of the Committee who set out their opinions, want a word? The word is Mr. Amjad Migati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12749	The Serbian Radical Party really wanted to come to a single law, which is the law on foreign affairs; it is not party, but of general interest. During the previous session, we agreed, but the government, instead of respecting these agreements, let the law in the ordinary procedure go into practice and thus shortened the possibility of repairing the law, because the deadline was short for amendments. Chuck, the amendments couldn't fix that text of the law, because we're missing two important heads. Let's start with that first important head. One chapter would cover and process relations between the Serbian Parliament and the foreign ministry. For example, in that head, it would be the minister's obligation to report on the work of his ministry at least twice a year. So the Assembly would have the opportunity to control the work, because without it there is no control of the ministry's work. We were also of the opinion that the new, proposed ambassador, not appointed, should come to the Assembly to give an opinion and an assessment of whether or not he deserves a appointment, and then, if the Government appoints him, to control the work through his programme. However, it is not and cannot be fixed by the amendment, because then we would get a new law. The second chapter, which is very important to us, includes the Ministry's Rules of Procedure, in the sense that it is necessary to lay down that regulation which must have what it will contain and on the basis of which the Ministry should propose to the Government, or before, and to discuss it on the Committee on Foreign Policy, that Rules of Procedure, in order for the Government to adopt it. In the current law, the minister has so much authority that it is beyond any democratic principle. Let me just point out, for example, Articles 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 23, 34, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 48; there says the minister will prescribe. There are very important things here, for example, the appointment of a messenger; when the ambassador finishes his job, etc. Or he's gone, the mailman does all the duties of the ambassador, and he's named without any regulations. How? There must be a certain way of naming, which the minister must adhere to. Without it, we will get into a situation, like when Draskovic was an unfortunate man, that everyone can be a diplomat and everyone can represent the state as they please, and the objections of the domestic state where our diplomatic mission is not taken into account at all; we have a series of objections and we have a number of examples of it - we go on, we don't care about foreign policy, we care about Mr Draskovic's personal policy, which you know very well and how it was. For example, there are very interesting things: for the advisory body (Article 6) The minister is expected to appoint honorary advisors. There is no need for this at all, and it is unknown in practice, because the minister has his advisers who he has hired to advise him, and the foreign affairs strategy is not the ministry's jurisdiction, the ministry is the executive authority. The strategy must be defined by the Government, the Assembly, the President. It is a strategy that is not short-term, it must be long-term and not change with the change of government; the foreign policy strategy should mostly be unique, if that is national interest. What does it mean to put the honorable advisors here without entering their appointment... (President: Time.) Thank you, I'll move on later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12750	The word has a People's MP Momir Markovic, a separate opinion, and then a National MP, Dr Nikola Žutic. People's MPs who have singled out their opinions can speak within five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12751	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at a time when Serbia was a state, at a time when the government in Serbia took care of the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people, diplomacy was very high. Thanks to the "buldozer revolution", thanks to your very short time of undermining diplomacy, you have begun to bring to the posts of ambassadors, diplomats of incompetent people, innocent and uninformed above all... I remind you that once Serbian diplomacy was led by one Ivo Andric, one Ducic, and that diplomacy has recently been led by people, one Wolf, I don't mean Vuk Jeremic, who literally destroyed everything he could, all of Serbia's interests outside... I remind you that Vuk Draskovic was in his own time, not asking anyone, but I suppose it was your coalition obligation to put him in that place, signed an agreement on which American soldiers can walk whenever they want, to hold on as long as they want, to carry on with their weapons whatever they want, to engage in an environment they want and not literally respond to anyone. This law is therefore one of the most important laws that the National Assembly should adopt. However, when you look at the bill yourself, there is a lot of uncertainty, a lot of gaps and a lot of possibilities for arbitrary action and for individual self-will. As a result, at the previous meeting, we agreed to amend the bill, to supplement it, to install certain amendments in the draft law and to deliver such amendments to the MPs. Today, and we had already discussed the same proposal, without any point being amended, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this bill. The Serbian Radical Party has given some 15 amendments, which would absolutely improve the text of the bill. We thought that between the two sessions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs you would include these proposals in the new text. That didn't happen. We will try to show you, when the amendments are on the agenda, that the text will be far better, that it will disable self-will. Because I remind you that before that Vuk Draskovic was a certain Svilanovic, one of the worst episodes of Serbian diplomacy. Today, precisely because he sold, literally, Serbian national interests, Svilanovic somewhere in Europe by some bodies, certain forums charge dividends for what he did. I'll remind you of a few more things, Mr. Minister. Foreign policy isn't just run by the Foreign Ministry. Foreign policy, some foreign policy can run other ministries. Unfortunately, for example, in the Ministry of Culture, Deputy Minister Branislav Dimitrijevic, son of Vojin Dimitrijevic, who was the director of Soros for Serbia, and I think it is now, but I don't know it personally. His statement is that the only solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues is Kosovo's independence. It will make you from the Ministry work for weeks to iron out such statements, such irresponsible people. That is why the Serbian Radical Party has issued an opinion and we will try, for such matters, to help amendments and in further discussion, and you will open up, or have hearing about amendments that improve the law. You know, we were in a position to... Although diplomacy used to be in white gloves, sometimes it was known, if a diplomat puts a point or a point, which means, lately, we've had diplomats who've been welcoming representatives of the countries they're in; we've had diplomats who haven't sobered up, and you know that. You'll have to do a lot of things. Besides, you won't have to for much longer, because soon, the SRS will, taking over all the leverages of the government, and do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12752	I thank MP Momir Markovic. The word has the People's MP Dr Nikola Žutić. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12753	Dear MPs, I'll brief my colleagues. I'll repeat what I said on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs a question about the very name of the law. The law is called - the law of foreign affairs. As far as I know, in the state-law practice, Serbia's law under this title never existed. To a little historic reminder that laws on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been passed in the Kingdom of Serbia; in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia there were laws on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In our opinion, the institution should be in the first place. In my opinion, the state-law tradition of the Serbian people and the Serbian state should be respected. However, the constitution called this law - on foreign affairs, so the legislator had to follow the provisions of the Constitutional Law. So, basically, it's also the constitutional law, which is why this law is called this. In his exposé, the minister pointed out that the law is modern, elegant and short. It's not commendable that the law is short. I think the law should be much more complete and comprehensive. In the opinion of us from the Serbian Radical Party, it is necessary that the law be complemented by provisions on the organisation structure of the ministry. Otherwise, there are so many details in the law, for example, about professional training, about the disciplinary procedure, the ex post cost of housing, then education and so on, but there are no, as I said, basic provisions on the structure of the ministry. I think it is necessary to insert provisions on the organisation structure of the ministry, so sectors, departments, into the law immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12754	I thank Dr. Nikola Žutić. I would like to inform the MPs that he is the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica Nikola Lazic and the Liberal Democratic Party Nebojsa Rangelovic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people Nebojsa Rangelovic, then the Messenger of the people, Ivica Dacic, and the Messenger of the people of Nada Kolundžija. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12755	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would first like to express my satisfaction that we have so many representatives of the Foreign Ministry in the first row. It's probably because we have a technical one in front of us, and basically a correct law. When we had the bill of law with many hollows of the minister, we had to chase down the halls and interrupt the session multiple times to wait for the minister to honor us with his presence. Before I make a few fundamental remarks, which are more questions than objections, I would ask one principle question for the government – how long will the government have the Byzantine-Ottoman approach to solving political problems? I want to explain, it's an infinite delay, and then a quick, extorted and mostly bad solution. I want to remind ourselves that with great delay, we have solved the problems of the Constitutional Court, appointed the judges of the Constitutional Court, and not to list further what we have done and what problems we have had with important, or systemic laws, without which there is no choice of president, without which there is no local choice. As for the Law on Local Self-Government, it seems that there is no letter written, similar to the fact that I am on that committee without seeing any order concerning those laws. I've already mentioned that on the technical side we have, essentially, one correctly written law. I'm just gonna ask a few questions, and we've been trying to solve some of the issues with the amendments. First, specifically, for Article 8. He is quite clear, but the question can be asked, because in other countries' legislation, it exists, whether it may have been necessary to count the functions of the diplomatic mission listed in the 1961 Vienna Convention. The proposed Article 8 provides for the possibility of being so and not being so. As much as my memory serves, in the law of the Republic of Croatia these functions are numbered. However, it is said here in the second position of Article 8 - generalized rules of international law, so it can be concluded that this concept sublimes what I ask. In particular, Mr. Minister could give an answer to this, more technically than essentially, a question. I'd like to ask a question regarding Article 15, concerning the appointment and recalling of the head of a permanent diplomatic mission. So I don't spend too much time, I'm not quoting that member. The member is talking about setting up and calling off the head of a permanent diplomatic mission. It may also be a matter for Mr. Minister of Procedure under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes a proposal to the president of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps the procedure is too complicated, perhaps it should only be the authority of the president of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution has no restrictive norms on this matter, because, as far as foreign affairs are concerned, Article 112 places it in the power of the president, while in particular Article 123, which treats the government's competence, foreign affairs are not mentioned at all. We can ask the question, why such a solution, is this perhaps in line with the general government's intention that the Republic of Serbia has a weak president, or have they overcome the professional reasons? Accordingly, questions can be asked, as a matter of fact, what are the president's intelligence in the case of a problem treated by this member. We can do a comparative, let's say, with the DA's appointment. Prosecutors are elected by the Assembly, but are proposed by the government, so the prosecutor is gone without a proposal from the government. So here and here, the president has certain powers, but without a proposal from the government, there is no ambassador. I would ask a question concerning Article 18: why did the Government define that the head of the diplomatic mission should be responsible for the foreign affairs minister, the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The very fact that it corresponds to the minister means that it also corresponds to the government, because the ministry is an integral part of that government, so I would like to get an explanation as to why the legislator has been identified for such a solution in the bill's proposal. Article 20 concerns the appointment of the General Consul. Also the question, why has the bill's proposal been defined, because there are solutions in various legislations where the president does so and where does the government do so, so that the consulate does not appoint and resolve the President of the Republic of Serbia? As for Article 47, the duties arising from the performance of external affairs, the LDP parliamentary group has submitted one amendment, and we will remain on this when it comes to amendments. So we will explain our amendment and ask the question why the legislator had such an approach in giving these solutions. The last question I would ask in the first part of the address of ministers and honourable colleagues and fellow Members concerns members relating to the determination of salaries and fees. It's a group of members from 49th to 56th. We think they're too extensive and detailed. Perhaps the issue should be elaborated in detail, i.e. to regulate the sublaws, and only the basic provisions of the law should be maintained. We would also ask this as a question to Mr. Minister, which is why the legislator had such an approach. Mr. Chairman, for the remaining 10 minutes, I would like to keep my final word at the end of the debate in principle on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12756	I thank LDP authorised representative Nebojsa Rangelovic. The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Prior to him, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12757	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Ivica Dacic will not be angry, because what I am about to say as a violation of the Rules of Procedure will serve him and all the MPs, as well as the public, as well as Gashi Knezevic, since he is in some special position here. He's probably not in legal error. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, we're having trouble with our 136th Rules of Procedure. We really need to stop the work and inform Vojislav Kostunica: or he will arrange for this government of his to operate according to the Constitution and the law and in the part where he proposes laws, or let them relax, to self-destruct. What's this about? As a legal basis or constitutional basis for this law, Article 97 point 1 and point 16. We operate here on a constitutional basis that we can only find in Article 99. A member of the 97th regulation of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as a state, but Article 99 says what is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. A 97th member is talking about what is going on in the Republic of Serbia from the state and state authorities. This can also be done in terms of the programme, both in terms of the regulation, and in terms of the decision, and in terms of solutions, and in terms of attitudes and recommendations, and instructions, but only something is done in the form of the law. What is done in the form of the law is something that is stated in Article 99. What's worth it, everything here can go the way someone imagined, because it's enough for that piece of power, that part of the government to say, that's our Athar, that's what we do, and we end it. Whether it has something to do with the Constitution or not, it doesn't matter. We've got total chaos. Why? It would be good for this physicist to come out and explain to us, if he calls for Article 97 point 1, international relations, to tell me which member of the bill refers to international relations. If he calls for article 97, let him tell me what provisions apply to the organisation of a state administration in the field of foreign affairs. There's no explanation. We just listened to "the father of democracy," we just don't know on what basis. Do you know that the Assembly is no longer exempt from foreign affairs? The assembly has to wonder whether an international agreement will be concluded, not brought before the final act, when everyone in that government sits down, takes the state's seal, goes abroad and makes an agreement. There must be a previous assembly to wonder about. It's in the domain of international relations, and you don't have any provision on that. We will not vote for this law, because we do not allow parliament to be humiliated in front of such a government. Therefore, within the meaning of Article 136, it is necessary for someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who understands these things to come out and explain what this project means, what it means to choose these constitutional powers to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12758	The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12759	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Somehow the Assembly works better when you chair, so I'm glad I have a chance to talk right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to make some suggestions about what is currently on the agenda, but given the global situation in which Serbia is. The rule of law today is very important for Serbia at the moment, even one of the most important, because the need for a single foreign policy is very important at the moment that Serbia is present. This is a proposal for a law on foreign affairs, however, by its content, this is, in fact, a proposal for a law on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a bill on a single competent authority of the state administration and, in practice, on the working relations of employees in that body. That is why we felt, we have submitted several amendments to the team on the occasion, but in general, I also talked about it at the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the chairman of that committee, MP Dragoljub Micunovic, it is obvious that there is a need to define the country's single foreign policy and to find a way to bring about the coordination of this foreign policy. In any case, the National Assembly, through its respective committees, of course also through the president of the Assembly and the people in the leadership of the National Assembly, and the President of the Republic also has certain powers, which stem from the work of their external affairs. Foreign policy is determined by the government. The foreign policy established by the government is being implemented by the ministry, as well as by other authorities of the state administration, within the framework of the work cycle. The question, then, is what are the powers, what is the role of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly in foreign policy, which is how the President of the Republic and the National Assembly exercise their responsibilities in foreign affairs. Also, whether the policy established by the Government obliges the President of the Republic and the National Assembly or not, in that sense, to the extent that the foreign policy established by the Government of the Policy of the whole country is, how unique and binding it is, not for the Ministry and for the authorities of the State administration, because it is normal and should not be disputed, but how binding it is unique, bound to both the President of the Republic and the National Assembly. This law on foreign affairs should therefore also define how the President of the Republic and the National Assembly should participate in the establishment of a single foreign policy. If there is no such thing, then there are high risks to disunity in its interpretation and implementation. As an illustration, I'm going to give an example. The government determines foreign policy. What is Serbia's foreign policy at the moment, regarding our membership in international organisations, especially security? The President of the Republic has one position, the foreign minister has one position, the Prime Minister has another position. The defence minister has one position, the prime minister has a second stance on NATO. Where is this unique foreign policy? The Democratic Party of Serbia advocates military neutrality, the Democratic Party favours NATO membership. There's no single foreign policy. If we define that relations between the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the Government and the Ministry are such that there is some co-operation, how does it come about? Here it turns out that we're talking about bilateral relations between different states or state bodies. I think you need to find a way, either through some council, either through some advisory form or whatever, that there is some form of communication in which the President of the Republic, the Government, will participate, through your authority of the state administration, and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly or one whose National Assembly for that authority, as regards the coordination of these interpretations of foreign policy. Of course, it doesn't have to be this country's foreign policy that's unique, but I think it would be a good idea for it to be. You know, when the government changes, foreign policy usually changes, but in serious countries, foreign policy doesn't change when governments change, because foreign policy and strategic policy are not defined from one day to another, but rather the strategy is defined, which is followed for many years. That is why it is good for you to have advisory bodies, but this cannot replace the need to define a single foreign policy. The National Assembly has its own parliamentary diplomacy. The President of the Republic has his own line. It represents the Republic of Serbia, thus expressing its views on the most important foreign policy issues. Unfortunately, there are no purely foreign policy issues in Serbia today. Any foreign policy issue in Serbia is also an internal political issue, as Serbia is now, unfortunately, not defining how it relates to events in the Middle East or the Pacific, but every issue is foreign policy today and Serbia's internal policy. We have our own opinions about it. These views are today, mainly, a fundamental issue, which is also being discussed at the Bush and Putin summits, is the Kosovo issue. This is not a matter of foreign policy for us, but unfortunately it has become a matter of foreign policy. Of course, you remember the argument that took place between then Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, the government and the president of the Republic on the preparation, content and signing of an agreement on the transit of NATO troops across Serbia's territory, signed on 18 July 2005. The foreign minister then claimed that the government and the president of the Republic had been notified in good time, that they had agreed on the content of the agreement, while they had publicly denied it. Also, during 2006, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic signed with State Secretary Condoleezza Rice so-called in Washington. SOFA agreement on US troops' rights in Serbia's territory. Did the president of Serbia have the authority to sign such an agreement? Under the Constitution and the laws, it's not. Did the Government, which establishes and leads foreign policy, empower him to sign the agreement? It is not logical that the government powers the president or that the president receives power from the government. But more importantly, 2006 is now the end of 2007, we did not get ratification and approval of the agreement. Does this mean that there are international agreements that you sign, or someone on your behalf, which are secrets? Who are they secret to? You know that parliament also works in closed sessions. When will this agreement come to ratification? I ask this because there are speculations about this agreement, which you must remove, to give it to the public, because there is a claim that this agreement contains a provision that Serbia undertakes that members of US troops will not deliver to any international court, regardless of possible charges of war or other crimes. If such a provision exists, I would remind you that it is contrary to the Convention establishing a permanent International Criminal Court, which Serbia has ratified. I think then the president of the Federal Assembly was Mr. Micunovic, when we did it. On the other hand, it is also contrary to the European Union's views. No country in the European Union has done so with America on a bilateral basis. So... The minister said at a committee session earlier that the agreement did not contain it. But are there international contracts that are signed in secret? They shouldn't exist. In particular, secrecy does not apply to parliament. It is Parliament that ratifys international contracts. Does the President of the Republic have the authority to represent Serbia in the country and abroad? Does that represent this "contractual capacity" as well? I just said that at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I think the formulation that the Ministry, with the president of the Republic, represents Serbia, is not in line with the Constitution of Serbia. She's controversial. They can't represent Serbia two at the same time. Presentation and representation is just one thing. The one who represents can empower you to represent him on his behalf. So the president of the Republic cannot represent Serbia and you can represent Serbia. At least it can be represented by the authority of the administration. So, of course the ambassadors... There is no need to rush, in connection with this, the Serbian ambassadors, appointed by the President of the Republic, of course; you will now say that ambassadors are in a working relationship with your ministry, but do not give yourself more authority than you have under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it doesn't say for nothing in the Constitution that it represents the President of the Republic, you could have written that it represents the Government. The President of the Republic represents, it's like having the right person to represent. One represents, so he empowers who else can do it in his name. So, the Ministry, you can represent the Serbian government, you can't represent Serbia. Who represents the Democratic Party? Is Boris Tadic representing her? He can't be represented by the vice president at the same time, unless he's authorized by the president. Who's representing the DS parliamentary group? The president of the parliamentary group. Could he represent anyone else at the same time without your authority? Also, I think it's very important, we suggested that diplomacy be as professional as possible, but that means that you should establish instruments and procedures that guarantee the professionality of diplomacy. I don't think it's a good idea that you didn't predict even diplomatic titles, not even for the heads of diplomatic and consular offices, it's not even prescribed that candidates have to have higher education. Of course, an academic can be someone without a college. I don't know if you have anyone in mind to set up who doesn't have it, but, anyway, I don't think it's... High education would still have to. We're in the 21st century. We have suggested that candidates for ambassadors to the so-called "Foreign Affairs Committee" should appear before the Assembly Committee on Foreign Affairs. Public hearings, i.e. in interrogations, and I hope that you will accept it, it is absolutely undeniable. In the end, in general, this law is needed, among other things, to call presidential elections. However, I think it is necessary for Serbia to have a single foreign policy. That's more important than the law you've proposed here. Serbia faces very important developments on the international agenda. It is very important how you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state negotiating team will find mechanisms and whether you will have a single foreign policy. Here, specifically, what if there is a unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija? What if some countries follow the U.S. into all this? Have you prepared what measures? As a government, you've prepared an independent action plan. Okay, but is the National Assembly going to listen to it through the media or are you going to tell the MPs of the National Assembly? Unfortunately, the practice has been established in Serbia, and when you negotiate presidential elections, one says -- it is better that elections are now, before the declaration of independence, others say -- no, it is better to be after the declaration of independence because we will have great chances. Guys, our goal is not to be independent. From that point of view, do you have a unique foreign policy at the moment? Will the reactions you are preparing be accepted by all your coalition partners? Will you leave Serbia without a single foreign policy after December 10th? You say you are preparing measures against states that will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence. Yeah, but does that mean... The DSS advocates, if the European Union accepts, unilaterally recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence, it says - we will not join the European Union. Is that DS's attitude? Do you have a single foreign policy or are you pretending to have it until December 10th? Don't let us get into a situation on December 11th so we don't know what to do. We're here... Mr. Minister, as Government, you have made one move that has been unrecorded in the history of parliamentaryism, you have withdrawn the budget from the agenda of the National Assembly. For what? To vote the laws necessary to call the election. The elections are more important to you than budgeting. What's the budget supposed to do? What if you don't bring it? You'll get it? Are you sure you know what will happen tomorrow in your coalition? I think you're too much in love with your coalition and you're fooled; you know, cheated husbands usually the last to know about it. I'm afraid all of you in this coalition have been fooled for a long time, only the last of you will know about it. Anyway, I don't want anything good for your ruling coalition, but I want good to Serbia. That is why I am saying this, because I believe that Serbia should at this point have a consensus on the basic and fundamental principles of foreign policy. So, Mr. Minister, I don't know when there will be a session on Kosovo and Metohija, don't put the National Assembly in a position to post the event to learn what you are preparing as some set of measures, action plans of all the ministries for Kosovo and Metohija after the declaration of independence. When was the last time you held a meeting with political parties in parliament regarding Kosovo and Metohija? Keep meetings, individually, about when you're going to call the election and who's going to support who's going to vote. We don't need a president without a country. I'm even sure the country doesn't need such presidents or presidential candidates. Anyway, the need for a single foreign policy is much more important than what we're talking about here. So I urge you to make every effort to define this country's common foreign policy, because today it defends this country and this people. I'll remind you that if we lose the state and the people, we'll lose each of our political parties, because the party has a lot, and if this people lose their country, then we'll all be in one very difficult political position. The rulers may forget their promises, but the people never do. So, Mr. Minister, try to define in the law the need and way of achieving a single foreign policy. In foreign policy there is no constant love and constant hostility, there are only constant interests, I guess you learned that in Great Britain. If you're talking about joining NATO or the European Union, let's define what our common interest is right now. If we should and forget everything that happened with NATO, yes, but what is our interest, will NATO leave Kosovo to Serbia? If he's ready and we're ready to forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12760	I thank MP Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS parliamentary group. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm reporting under Rule 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law cannot survive in this form and you should withdraw it. So, the first version of this bill, or it's the first and final version, was made, as far as I know, by the end of June of the month. You've informed us, our parliamentary delegation in Strasbourg, that on the Foreign Ministry site we can look at what it looks like. The right to tell you, I didn't want to, given that what comes into the assembly procedure for me is a law that I should think about and that the SRS is investing amendments in that direction, but you here, by chance or on purpose, have called on only one member of the Constitution. That's why I'm advertising Article 136. Rules of Procedure, Rule 2, which gave you reason to state the constitutional basis, the reasons (you specified), the explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions. Since Serbia is a state in which, as you have heard from previous speakers, Mr Micunovic said as well as the president of the Committee (although, thanking the law), the Constitution, in a way that intertwines the authority of the Government, the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, regulates the work concerning foreign or foreign affairs, should, above all, define the relationship between the President of the Republic – the future elected president, in addition to Article 97(1), where it is said about the competencies of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that we have to establish an international position and relationship with other states and international organisations, define the relationship between the President of the Republic – in a few months, you will remain Foreign Minister Tomislav Nikolic as the President of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly. Because we have had the situation that on several occasions SRS MPs, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, are asking your associates to be legally and institutionalized by members of the law on the basis of internationally recognised documents. Later, when I speak in principle, and in particular, you will see, Mr. Minister, that some of the concepts that you are introducing into the law do not exist either in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations or in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Members of your ministry, your colleagues, your associates, have come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and have agreed with the MPs that it exists out there somewhere. But I've got up on the table (I haven't had until a while ago, brought me a co-worker) to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, and I compared it to a member of the law, where you're completely making up something that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. On the other hand, the National Council on Foreign Policy Management Strategy, the Relations of the National Assembly and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs... Mr. Minister, we can't look anymore, and especially at foreign channels and agencies, what you say, because this law was supposed to be substantive, comprehensive and regulate the country's foreign policy at such a sensitive moment when we talk about the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Then why do I need you in a formal or informal conversation to ask, did you, Minister, what did you mean when you said we'd be flexible and generous, and I don't know what the terms you've already used by giving an interview to a foreign media house, when it comes to the decline of the Shiptar side in the Kosovo and Metohija status negotiations. You know, then I can think that you're going to give everything away and it's going to be from a resolution adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen much over the past seven years, that foreign ministers, who led an open anti-Serbian policy, as both Goran Svilanovic and Vuk Draskovic have been doing, abuse the function and competences of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the National Assembly, as the most legislative body, has no insight into what you are doing. How is that not your basic motive to, say, define a special member or head of law by regulating your relationship with the National Assembly? Well, you're not just going to show up when you come as a member of the negotiating team or when you're proposing some law? So it's a very bad law. He did not regulate this kind of relationship at all, the relationship between the president of the Republic in the conduct of foreign policy within the framework of his competence to represent Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which determines, that is, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the guidelines for foreign policy. The best thing to do is to withdraw this law from the procedure or to accept all radical amendments. Even that won't be enough, because two new institutes are missing, and this is the National Council for Foreign Policy and Relations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry, towards the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12762	I would like to thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the Assembly. The word is by Nada Kolundzija, head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12763	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Democratic Party, this is an extremely important law. On the one hand, from the point of view of the constitutional and legal need to regulate this important area, and on the other, because of the political importance of what is the country's international position and foreign policy. From that point of view, we also analyze the reasons why this law was passed, as well as its contents. What needs to be pointed out is that by adopting a new constitution and the Law on Ministrys, as well as by ending the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Serbia has taken the obligation and, it can be said, has been given the chance to regulate its foreign policy on its own. I just want to point out that for us this debate is not a debate on the strategy and objectives of foreign policy, because it is simply not the subject of this law that we are talking about today. Today we are discussing a law governing a part of the state administration that is authorized to organise and implement a policy established by the Government in the field of foreign policy. I would just like to point out that the importance of establishing institutions that will be able to implement foreign policy is of particular importance when we live in times and circumstances in which almost every issue of internal policy and internal development is related to the country's international position and international relations. As never now, the fate of one country has depended on its international position and its ability to integrate into world streams and achieve good relations with other countries and with other international organisations. Almost all issues are related to the country's ability to lead a good foreign policy, including the issue of the economic position of citizens, the issue of their economic prosperity, is particularly linked to the country's ability to make good connections with countries by leading a good international policy and thus enables its citizens to have a better and better life. What was important to us is that from the point of view of constitutional competences, we in some way consider whether this law defines all constitutional competences of a special state authority and whether there are some competences belonging to another state body and in that sense there is a certain conflict within this law. We have indeed not found that this law in any way violates the constitutional determination of the position of this state body. There have been objections here that this law did not regulate the jurisdiction of other executive bodies in foreign policy, but in our deep conviction, this law should not even regulate the jurisdiction of other bodies, especially the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, who draws from the Constitution and the Law on the President of the Republic. What was also important for us to see if there were such objections, too much power from the minister. Analyzing what's most important in the department's jurisdiction, so, everywhere... Special missions, setting up, tasks of special missions, it's governed by the government, on a proposal from the minister. At the initiative of the minister, the government sets out a proposal to appoint permanent heads of diplomatic missions, ambassadors, etc. At the proposal of the minister, the government appoints and resolves the General Consul. The government, on a proposal from the Minister and with the consent of the state of admission, can place a face for the Honorary Consul... The opening and closing of representative offices is also under government authority, so on a proposal from the government, the government is making a decision to open and close diplomatic and consular offices. Also, the decision to open and close information centres -- at the proposal of the government, the government makes a decision. Giving consent to the opening of representations in the Republic of Serbia, an important issue -- at the proposal of the government, the government decides to give its consent. When it comes to property: "O the acquisition, sale, lease of land, buildings and business premises, as well as the purchase of apartments used for the purposes of diplomatic and consular representations, based on the government's decision... ". So, what is most important is the issues, the status and jurisdiction issues, the government decides, not the minister. It is logical for the minister to propose, because he is in charge of the organisation and work of the state authority and it is normal that he is the one who formally proposes to the government, but it was extremely important for us that the government is the one who makes those decisions. Special conditions for gaining and losing diplomatic title, according to the minister's proposal, are also prescribed by the government. In that sense, what was an objection to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is a question of the obligations of diplomatic and consular representations in the full achievement of the function of parliamentary co-operation, I think it is something that remains an interesting issue for us. The Foreign Affairs Committee felt that diplomatic and consular representations should (and that it should be stated by law) co-operate with lawmakers who are in parliamentary delegations or parliamentary visits from countries where they are diplomatic representatives. I think we should try to find a common solution to how to do this, so that it would simply not be left to the free interpretation of diplomatic and consular representations. All MPs who once traveled or had contacts and went to parliamentary visits had different experiences with our diplomatic-consular representations. It is not only that they sometimes felt that they were the highest representatives of the highest legislative body of their country and that in this way they referred to them, but, on the other hand, they did not realize that MPs could sometimes open the door to the state through their contacts and their visits in those countries. So we have seen very often the ambassadors of many countries at the international meetings that we have been to, and often we have not seen the ambassadors of our country, which shows that they freely interpret whether it is the interest of the state. This is not about the need for MPs to be looked after and the nanny, it is about the state's interest to make as many contacts as possible in the country in which it is represented, to open as many doors as possible to achieve, in the best sense, the interests of the state. I think we should find a solution to that. The Democratic Party will vote for this law. I think he's very clear on all the important issues that concern this authority of the administration. I don't think there's any danger of excessive jurisdiction. It is very clearly defined that this is the government's jurisdiction, which is, of course, from the constitutional authority of the government that it determines and implements politics, including foreign policy. In that sense, the government is in charge of the most important issues regarding the regulation of this area. We will vote for this law. Of course, we will carefully study all the amendments that have arrived and we will accept all those amendments that contribute to the improvement of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12764	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on the proposal for a law on foreign affairs cannot be supremacy and cannot be reduced only to the fact that we MPs have found that the law has laid down everything, that the law is technically, that there are no precise objections that the minister has been given authority. We'll prove to you that the powers come from the government. This is one of those laws that "seeks" the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia so that presidential elections are called and it is clear that it is with that intention and written. What has been going on in the Republic of Serbia since the DOS came to power? Serbia is losing diplomacy. I see people here who I suppose have spent a lot of time in diplomacy who regret times when a representative of Serbia had to be a trained diplomat. After the five-octobarian revolution, you have put into practice the people who mean something to you in the highest places in diplomacy. Whether they were passing some courses or not, I don't know, I suppose they should have known language, but the basic course, the course of patriotism, none of them had, not even the ones sitting here right now, and they were in those places after October 5th. From October 5th to this day, people who have not passed the course of patriotism are placed in these places. After all, Mr. Minister, you have come to this post as an associate of the President of the Republic, not as a diplomat and as a man in whom this National Assembly trusts. Don't be mad. Lately, there have been several months since you adapted your public statements to SRS positions, I recognize in you a man who could represent Serbia's interests and foreign policy. Although that guff with the formation of some advisory body, which you've introduced the traitors to, will never be clear to me. If it reflects the true structure of your personality and the way you want to run foreign policy, it's not good, and if someone made you do it, go out and tell who made you take Goran Svilanovic, one of them, to advise you. You know what? Indeed, in foreign policy, the way foreign policy should be conducted, in defence of the country with diplomacy, Goran Svilanovic has nothing to teach you. By the way you performed, I admit, twice in Strasbourg, you have him to teach. You lack much to fully, absolutely clearly, crystal clear Serbia's views in international relations. It's not true that we don't need to discuss what you're about to do here. I wish you had come to this National Assembly with this assignment to tell us and to seek consent to what you intend to do. I experienced whistles here when I said more than a year ago that even by breaking diplomatic relations, Serbia should defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity, its membership in the UN, its signature on the UN Charter, its founding role in the UN. Anyway, from your party came those stories. Change the time, you come to those positions, Mr. Minister. I even heard you say that in every way possible we would defend, and then the other day you said diplomacy, politics, all the funds in diplomacy, politics... Of course it's not yours to talk about further, it's on the Secretary of Defense, on the President of the Republic, but we're getting close. Please study Halstein's doctrine in all your departments at the Department of Foreign Affairs. Germany, convicted of genocide against many countries and nations in the world, raised to a pillar of shame as a criminal state, immediately after World War II, had a minister who said - who recognises East Germany - we do not have diplomatic relations with him. Was that a laugh? It may be, but it has yielded results, as this new Serbian policy will produce results. As long as you give in, as you tell us and the world that we're weak, that there's nothing we can do, that everything we're meant to have to accept to ourselves, that it was lost 10, 15, 20 years ago, until then we're weak. When you say we are as strong as the people want to defend Kosovo and Metohija, and I am convinced that the people want Kosovo and Metohija to remain within Serbia, because it is a sign that the people want Serbia, so far you have the strength and the power, Mr Minister, to use freely as the power of the SRS, we will never resent you if in the world you represent the position that Kosovo and Metohija can never take away from us. I see no other reason for the foreign ministry, except for the current fight for Kosovo and Metohija. Everything else is routine, everything else is... Even a lot of businesses, which your party has put into diplomacy, and I understand that, what to do, but that's how you imagine politics -- as a single company. Please think carefully, Mr. Minister. The foreign ministry has been the party ministry since 5 October 2000. How which party gets the ministerial post, the minister throws his friends, neighbors, brother-in-laws, pasta, this and that into ministerial posts. Career ministers, ministers who know the job, are trapped, retired, their opinion was no longer important to anyone. Only the current opinion of the current government is important, and this cannot be a decisive factor in external affairs. In foreign affairs, the state is in a hundred years and has the same foreign policy. When does it change foreign policy? Now is the time, Mr. Minister, for Serbia to consider its foreign policy. Now the world is divided into those who wish us good and those who desire us evil. You see it clearly, you see it well, that's what you do, and if you don't know it, stay away. I'm a better man to say - there are great trials ahead of me, I'm not capable of this. If you're capable, tell us the truth. What are these stories about us having to continue with the Western European Union to talk about meeting all the conditions, about throwing our sovereignty at the feet of the EU, which takes Kosovo and Metohija? What kind of stories about Russia as a non-democratic country, in which there is no democratic election, in which the oligarchs are ministers, as I heard yesterday from this pay phone, and no one in the ruling structures has said -- is not true, people. I'd like to see here a plan by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the orientation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so the Ministry doesn't spend money on our enemies. What do we need that for? I'd like to know, since you're already here in the O.R., it would be good if you took the opportunity to tell us what's waiting for us. You're fully engaged in these negotiations, and yesterday you spoke to "three," I guess you know what's waiting for us. I couldn't allow myself to be engaged in something for a month, two, two, two, and I don't know what's waiting for me, and I wouldn't allow myself to know what's waiting for us, without telling others, especially not to tell people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. So, Mr Minister, if the axiom is a self-declaration of Kosovo and Metohija, I am not interested in this delay because of your presidential elections, Boris Tadic, tell him if he is waiting for the self-declaration of Kosovo's independence and its bad reaction, I don't care whether there will be elections or not, whether he may be elected or not, whoever is not adequately acting according to the self-declaration of Kosovo and Metohija will not be president of Serbia, even if he was elected half an hour earlier, and you know it very well. So, Mr. Minister, I hear the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making a plan for behaviour in case of self-proclaiming. Where did you get the courage to do this on your own, not to seek anyone's support and not to bear the burden of responsibility to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The foreign minister who plans to bring to courtia relations with other countries that recognise Kosovo and Metohija is strongest when the National Assembly decided, not the foreign minister. Ministers are available in 15 minutes. You're a young man, and you're supposed to be a minister who's going to have a long career. In Serbia, once the prime minister of the government took over the foreign ministry, to stress how important this is. In Serbia, which has not had this many representations, or this many foreign affairs jobs, perhaps not as many problems. Your problem is your ideology. Your ideology is pro-Western; you present it to us as a desire for a better life in Serbia, and it can easily pass, only like this, as most citizens of Serbia live in this social state, at this level, in the sewers of the West. They wait in ranks to get any job during the day, to take a piece of bread to their house. The whole of Serbia is on average at the level of that living in the West. We won't be people there who are rich, people who have jobs, people who have perspective. You're welcome to tell us, we won't blame you, we know that. So, it's easy to represent the West as Mecca and Medina, it's hard to tell the West in the eyes what is expected of it and what we're ready to meet and to what extent we're ready to go. No one's crazy to fight with the West by force. No one is crazy enough to let the West do whatever it wants over Serbia, not even the Democratic Party. You're not the ones from a year ago. Perhaps because of the election and perhaps after the election, you will do everything you did a year ago, and let Serbia watch and remember. Right now, the cards are split. In Strasbourg, which you chaired until the other day, we are being kidnapped by the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, those in Brussels take away the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, we are being kidnapped by Washington by Kosovo and Metohija. You have to define yourself here. It is clear how you must define yourself – how most citizens think. We are all concerned and scared, we know what difficulties await us, but it does not affect us to give our children, to give our houses and our property and to say – do whatever you want, you are stronger than us. He who is the foreign minister in Serbia, the genes must guide him. He needs to know exactly what an old man in Serbia thinks, and what a child who is already mature to think about Serbia and its foreign policy and whether Serbia will be a slave or be free. Fortunately, you haven't succeeded in these seven-eight years to change our personality structure so much that we wish we were slaves. Too much humiliation has Serbia experienced, each citizen in particular, humiliations in relation to her faith, in her language, in her culture, in her history, in her friendship, in her factories, in her water, in her air, in her country. We're completely humiliated, to the end. All they can do is crack the trigger, no more silence, and now we can just blow up and fight it all. You know that very well. Don't let it get to that point. You defend Serbia so we can defend it and we will never say a word to you. I don't care who's gonna start the consulates and who's gonna set up the honorable consuls, advisory bodies, etc. I'm interested in general politics and whether I'll cooperate with you in this, Mr. Jeremic; if I don't, you won't be in the position of the foreign minister. And if there happens to be a tragedy that some other policy will win in Serbia, do what you want, we will continue to fight, we will continue to wait for our moment. But don't let all our moments pass... With Serbia's full consent, Republika Srpska is no longer a shadow of what has become of Dayton; with Serbia's full consent, in these seven years, we have completely strayed from Kosovo and Metohija, to the extent that you had, until just a few months ago, an official statement that everything has been lost, even said when it was lost, by signing what agreement. Now that agreement is the only basis and you are now interpreting it in the way we interpreted it, even in the last presidential campaign when your candidate replied that it was not true. Now you're saying it's true. Some, and the ex-post mind isn't bad, it's a waste of time, but every mind is good, even later, especially if it can help Serbia. I only see this law as a basis for us to come to the presidential elections as soon as possible and to end DOS domination, it took too long, seven years. For seven years, DOS has been in power. I'm watching Gash Knezevic. He's sitting with you now. In the past, he was an editor of education, and now he's doing outside work. Guys, do you have the measure? Do you have the knowledge? Are you universal experts? That knowledge from quizs is good to win the quiz, but in no science is any knowledge. It's kind of general, encyclopaedic, elemental knowledge. You don't have universal experts for every purpose and you just pull them out, you want him to be a minister of faith, you want him to be a minister of agriculture, you want him, you want him? He can't, people. If you're already training those kids and your staff, you should go to school them on purpose; there's a dedicated school in the police department -- Serbia first, then a tight profession, diplomacy, which I appreciate. Many young people I meet now in Serbia's diplomacy, if you've taught them patriotism, they all know, don't give them a condition to know one language or two, so pick it up at the Faculty of Philology. The condition is Serbia, here, is the condition, and here. If that were the manner of every government, then we'd all work together here among ourselves. What Mr. Micunovic says, then the Assembly would not be opposed to the foreign ministry, then I could agree that Mr. Micunovic would be the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because I know he is not considering party affairs, he is thinking Serbian. I know the minister is thinking Serbian. Well, it doesn't matter who's chairing the board's session, but if the Committee's meeting has to be run by someone who belongs to the Democratic Party, then I find that suspicious. Every time you ask the president of the assembly board to be from a minister's party, it's all suspicious to me. Where did you get that urge? Where did you get that motive? What's that for? What are you afraid of? To invite the chairman of the Serbian Radical Party's board to attend the committee meeting, I suppose that's normal, to submit a report? That's normal. What is the congregation for? To keep the minister safe and based on the position of the board president? It's no good, Minister. You're building new relationships in your own party. If you're a good minister, tell me - I don't care that the radical will be the chairman of the board, I can't wait for him to comment, and I have arguments to answer. No, but give me mine, from my party, to be chairman of the board, so you don't ask me anything. That's why all these laws are under the cracks of radicals, and that's why they're all suspicious, and that's why you'll vote them. It's not a dispute. A state without law is not a state. But a state where they don't respect laws is also not a state. How long does it take you to change Danica Draskovic's staff at the Ministry? How much time do you need, Minister? Will we get to the point that when the new minister arrives, your staff must be replaced? Will Serbia really set all personnel partyically during each election period? Let's settle for it, let's do it. Do we have so many personnel? I think that when the whole of Serbia gathers all the capable, honest and honest people, there's one good government. And we now represent Serbia so that every political party has the government, and the Foreign Ministry, and the Home Office, and the BIU necessarily, and the Military Security Agency and the General Staff, everything has every party -- it's not true. It is not true, but we need to create an atmosphere such that the parties can co-operate, that people can cooperate, that a capable police inspector no one touches, whatever the power, no one touches a capable officer, no matter what authority, no one touches an ambassador, if he does not embarrass himself, and if he develops good relations between Serbia and the country he is in. Well, I'm just thinking about it. I don't understand foreign policy, I simply imagine it, and I think that your entire ministry must be in Serbia's service and that you, Minister, have to make a point and you have to insist on it. Whether it's Peru, Mika, Jova, Hasa, Fadil, I don't care who the minister is, or who he's gonna be. Or Elvira, I'd even like Elvira to be, say, an ambassador to Hungary. If this discussion of ours can help you, we're here. Of course, we can't vote for the law. We've made some amendments. Minister, for your information, as we informed that minister yesterday, the law arrived in the procedure just in time for you to give amendments to seven laws within 24 hours. If you think we've done a good job of breaking this law, we haven't worked it out. If you think it's a good thing the opposition didn't get a good handle on the law, it's not good. The law is only good if the opposition had time to spread it well, to make remarks on it, and you argued on those remarks to answer. I wish we didn't have to change this law when we came to power after January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12766	I thank Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. The word is Mr Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12767	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for all the objections you've made. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, for these general remarks and these general things, which I think are truly crucial right now. I agree with you that this foreign policy moment that we're in is really crucial. This does not mean that we do not have to adopt this law, or this technical law, I agree that it is an extremely technical text. But I would look back, before I try to respond to some of these remarks of the SRS MPs, the LDP MPs, also from Mr Dacic, the SPS MPs, concerning the current situation in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, we have been quite regularly informing the Assembly since the start of the negotiation process. We will continue to do so, in line with the dynamics of the negotiations. You asked me how, why, whether or not the Foreign Ministry Assembly prepares relations measures, in the event of recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. I want to answer that directly, since you mentioned the Holstein doctrine, since you mentioned certain specific things, that the Foreign Ministry has been working for months on a proposal of measures that are in the range of very soft to very hard, in terms of diplomatic things that we can do. Of course, here I agree with you that the Foreign Ministry is in charge of proposing measures to the government in the domain of diplomacy, or international relations. Holstein's doctrine is this last instance, the most solid measure the state can take. It is an end to diplomatic relations with anyone who recognizes a particular entity that you consider to be, or which this state would consider to be a flagrant violation of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. I can tell you that Holstein's doctrine, as a last resort, is one of the proposed measures proposed by the Foreign Ministry to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, since the document, the proposal, bears the mark of state secrets, I cannot discuss it at an open session of the Serbian Parliament. But I said the Foreign Ministry will propose a whole set of measures to the government and I can tell you what's the easiest measure here. The least we can do is not do anything. The most difficult thing is to break diplomatic relations, to follow Holstein's doctrine. There are seven or eight different degrees between them. The foreign ministry has considered all seven states with which we currently have diplomatic relations. The proposal went to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia will decide on these measures, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But the Department of Foreign Affairs has completed the proposal. I received some remarks on the professionalism of the team sitting here with me, or at least that's how I understood them, and I want to explain - Professor Gašo Knezevic is the chief legal adviser to the Foreign Ministry, and this is the place that is scheduled. That's where the minister sets up his advisor. So, like everywhere, you will allow the minister to appoint his advisors. So, I've defined myself as my chief legal advisor to be Professor Gašo Knezevic. Also, I have defined that my secretary of state in the ministry is not a party figure, but a professional diplomat, our former ambassador to Egypt, in London, Ambassador Rajko Bogojevic. I have also defined myself for all the people who came to the Foreign Ministry with me to be exclusively in the cabinet of the minister. When I no longer do this duty, they will all leave with me from the cabinet. No single party man has been appointed to professional places in the ministry. So when I came to the Ministry with me, there were five or six people and they were all sitting in the cabinet. As in every normal system, when power changes, the minister goes, his closest associates go, political deputies, and the diplomatic apparatus remains unchanged. It was my idea and it was the idea of this law. Mr. Nikolic, you asked me about the personnel who came into the past. I can tell you that you're right here. Extremely many personnel have been brought to the side in the last few, two or three years. I don't know whose frames they are now, are those frames... They were probably quite close to the party that occupied the ministry at the time, but I can tell you that they all came to the Ministry on the basis of some of the work contracts, which, after this ministry became the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are no longer legal. I broke all those contracts. I've been exposed to a lot of violent attacks in the media for pulling this man, that man, from the cultural center, from Canada, from Strasbourg. I pulled them all by the letter of the law. So I can say that I have now received one question directly from the parliamentary bench -- how many contracts I have concluded. I haven't concluded any. In any case, whatever was previously an irregular situation at the Foreign Ministry, after the adoption of this law for such a kind of irregularity will no longer be a place. This really paves the way for the formation of a professional diplomatic service, modernized, facing the challenges of the 21st century, the external political challenges that we as a country face in the 21st century. Of course, the biggest foreign policy challenge at this time is the preservation of the sovereignty, the territorial integrity of our country, and thus the democratic order, namely the European integration of this country, and thus the prosperity of the entire Western Balkans. That's the kind of diplomatic service we need. This law allows such a diplomatic service to be made. No one can deny that we are facing a dramatic and historical temptation. As for the definition, this law does not insinuate any definitions. This law is not directed in a political sense one way or another. The government that wins the election, in a democratic way, decides how this diplomatic apparatus will be used. My task, the task of the applicant of this law, is not mine, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, to allow that apparatus to be professional, efficient, modern and dynamic. Then the government elected in the elections, which will receive a majority in the elections, will decide how to use it and what the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia will be. This is not, unfortunately, the place and time to discuss the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. I want to come here and submit to the Assembly an exposé on the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia in the way I see it, as Minister, my government. This is the moment to discuss the law. Before I get off the phone, I want to tell you, believe me, day and night all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the minister, are committed to the time of battle, the constant struggle to preserve our territorial integrity. Since we're doing a very transparent job in a very transparent way, I think you can see it. The situation is extremely difficult. We haven't had this problem with Kosovo in the last year or the last two years. We have it for a very long time, as we all know, and right now geopolitical circumstances are such that the situation is extremely difficult, in terms of implementation into the work of what we want to do. This is the preservation of territorial integrity. I can say that in the last six months, as far as this government is concerned, we have moved the better situation regarding the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you, in May this government took an oath in this assembly. In June, it seemed more than certain that it would be implemented into the work of Ahtisaari's plan. We rejected Ahtisaari's plan; then we managed to get into a situation with our diplomatic and political activities to exploit a geostrategic environment in which not all the key members of the Security Council agree with Ahtisaari's plan and turn it into a new negotiating process. It seemed as if it was absolutely impossible to start a new negotiating process. We managed to get a new chance. These new 120 days of negotiations chaired by the so-called The negotiating troika we used extremely well. We've presented a lot of plans on essential autonomy. All these plans have one common denominator, which is that they are absolutely in line with what this assembly adopted as a negotiating platform. So, we didn't leave the Serbian Parliament's negotiating platform for a moment, and we were flexible, open, ready to accept absolutely every suggestion. We were ready to discuss every point of that proposal. In the end, our proposals remain in the record. In the end, it also remained in the record that Albanians were not ready to discuss any point in any of our proposals. With one such record, we're going to New York for a Security Council session. I'm going to New York tonight to prepare for the Prime Minister's performance at that Security Council session and to speak with the UN Secretary General, Mr. Ban Ki Moon. We will continue to fight in every forum that discusses Kosovo and Metohija. While it was a "three" forum, we participated actively, agilely, in principle and in line with the platform adopted here in the Assembly and the Resolution of the Republic of Serbia Assembly. We took part in these negotiations. Now the negotiations are moving to New York and we're going there and we're going to be extremely active there. We need support to carry out what we want to do, and there is almost complete consent to this congregation, as I understand it. We will not be enough to support just one key international factor, because we live in a multipolar world with many important factors. Maybe there was only one yesterday. There's more and more of them. In such a multilateral, multilateral environment, you simply cannot, when you are a small country, implement your national interests without the support of the majority, if not all key foreign policy factors. Albanians thought they could implement independence, with only support, in May, the United States. It wasn't enough. We can learn something from them. It's not enough when you only have the support of one factor. When you're a small country, you have to find a way to get support from everyone. It's a mission of diplomacy, and sometimes it's not easy. That's why diplomacy isn't a simple trade. That's why diplomacy may even be art sometimes, especially in difficult historical moments like this. We're doing the best we can. The task is clear: to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, and here we all agree. I'm glad I heard the words of support from the bench today from where I don't usually hear the words of support, as far as politics are concerned. I'm telling you, this battle isn't over yet, this battle has to keep fighting. This battle is not only fought in one capital, this battle is fought in many capitals. In all these capitals of the West, the East must be present. We must build the best possible relationships with all those who have the power to influence how we will live tomorrow and in which country we will live tomorrow. Unfortunately, we're not a superpower and we need to balance. We have to balance between east and west all the time. We are not the first time, like Serbia, in a situation that we have to balance between east and west. Many times in our history, we had to balance between east and west. This is another moment where we have to balance between east and west. For that, we need a clear political definition, a clear political vision. We also need an efficient diplomatic apparatus to implement a policy that, Mr. Dacic, I hope can be shared. We've always done everything to keep her together. If she's not together... Unfortunately, in democracy sometimes there is no common policy; everyone has the right to their own policy, you, gentlemen of the people, are elected on this or that ticket and you have the right to see Serbia's foreign policy in one way or another. If there is no common policy, then the majority, because that's what democracy says; who has the majority, it creates politics. In these historic moments, it is best that she be unique and best to have her together. This government will continue to do everything possible to keep the consensus and for this consensus is a very important National Assembly. So, Mr. Nikolic, we won't ignore the National Assembly. Mr. Nikolic, of course, as we have so far, we will report to the National Assembly and we will try to make a consensus, as we have done so far, on the most important state issues, and above all, regarding the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. For that, we need as soon as possible a renovated, dynamic, efficient, professional, rejuvenated diplomatic apparatus. We're doing everything we can to make it within the law. We need the law. We need to regulate it. There were a lot more questions. I want to answer your questions later in the session. Some are very important, some are very meaningful. We'll adopt some amendments because they're meaningful. I'm sorry I took a little more of your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12768	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12769	I understand that the pay phone was brought by Mr. Secretary, so he gave us an unmistakable report on the negotiations. Of course, we expect this report based on our resolution, but we expect it when the government is in full shape, so when the agenda is right, the reporting and the adoption of a new resolution on what to do next. So the government's relationship to the National Assembly is regulated in Article 144. The constitution, which says the Government is reporting politics to the National Assembly. I'm here to find a foothold to ask the National Assembly to know what the MIP is up to, no matter what you've informed the Prime Minister of what the Ministry is up to. I don't think the government will be able to take measures on its own on how to behave in the worst possible case, but it will have to ask for instructions from the National Assembly or consent, support of the National Assembly. Ministers, first of all, you are not a frequent guest in the National Assembly, and second of all, you have never had the opportunity to have negative reactions, until now, Members of the People. Don't say you're not used to positive reactions. Every time it comes to Serbia's future, when it comes to national and state interests, every minister who wants to defend them will have the support in this room, and has so far. We never threw away a minister who was doing his job properly, acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the laws. We didn't throw it to you either because you were pretty much acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The worst possible thing is that our diplomacy is being run by employees under a contract of action. That's what actually ruined our foreign policy position. When you bring in a writer, so to speak, an alcoholic prone to alcohol, you all know he's a notorious drunk, he says himself, "I'm a drunk," and when he represented the country in one of the Western countries, what could he do there? What kind of deal? They're not serving these work contracts to ruin Serbia, to ruin its reputation in the world, are they? The diplomat, an officer, was awarded to a Serb who was raised, who was educated, who was moderate, who knew. He was a diplomat or an officer. Not everyone can be a diplomat. As for these kids we're training for diplomats, they'll judge experienced diplomats whether they can be diplomats or not. So, you're a college student who helps diplomats, and you hire diplomats to do ad hoc work contract. It's no good. They want an ambassador to be rewarded and you send him to be ambassador. It's not right, it's not right. First, it is based only on its opinion and, secondly, on its party's opinion. That's his limitations. I would like to discuss these restrictions a little more, because it seems to me that we have neglected Serbian diplomacy. It is not true what Mrs. Kolundji said, that for the first time now we have the opportunity to edit Serbian diplomacy. To God, in that state community, we never ran Serbian diplomacy. We may not have guided by some instructions, but we've always had MIP. Only Nikola Sainovic, at the request of the SRS in 1993, abolished the MiP of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has always had MIP and the Ministry of Defence. These people sitting next to you know that. Why didn't they worry about Serbia's interests? And I expect now, Serbian diplomacy must take care not of the interests of the region, but of Serbia. The region is mostly hostile to Serbia. Who are our neighbors? NATO. Is NATO our friend? No, Mr. Minister. It's not true that you're looking for another ally in the world for this idea of ours. You're asking America to stop kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. We don't need her to be an ally in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. Defend against whom - from America? So we need America to stop kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. We allies in defense have. There are so small and brave peoples who say it openly. I also saw what the foreign minister of Cyprus said and what Slovak said yesterday. A small, brave people -- there is no independence between Kosovo and Metohija. Would you say that about the situation in their country? You wouldn't, because someone from our ministry a few months ago on a UN committee voted in favour of a blockade against Cuba. The instruction had to be received from Belgrade. So we never had the courage to represent the free interests of the world. In 1992, I suggested that the SRJ Assembly deliver a resolution on the abolition of South Africa's blockade, so I said "we know what a blockade is, let's vote against all the blockades in the world, because we know how much it hurts children". Again, most of them didn't accept it. Here, you accepted Cuba. As soon as Republika Srpska is mentioned, the ruling majority will not defend Republika Srpska. Turns out you'd rather defend Cuba from America than give the Republika Srpska the rights given to it in Dayton and the UN Council Resolution. (President-in-Office - Milosevic Albianic: Thank you. It's not "thank you", Mr. Albianic. "Thank you" is when I get off the phone. Don't say "thank you" to me. I haven't spoken to you. I'm speaking to Mr. Secretary. Besides, I hear you've got a little bit of elevated sugar, Mr. Albianic. Take care. For everything you want to do, I repeat, and I am not ashamed, in the defence of Serbian national interests, in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, you have full support of the SRS, but when you go that way, there is no turning away from it, no longer giving you the SRS. When you bring this great river into the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, don't let it happen to you as some of your predecessors, that you want to stop halfway, because we are now going to step on those who want to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12770	The word has been made by Parliament MP Balint Pastor, president of the Group of Minorities. As for sugar - 6.1, but after breakfast and honey lemonade, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12771	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SVM and the Minority Group, I would like to say a few sentences on the draft law on foreign affairs, and I would like to make a few proposals on this bill, so I would like to ask Mr. Minister to pay attention to the proposals that I will make a little later. It is very important that the Republic of Serbia has a modern law on foreign affairs. By all accounts, this law is modern, but the new law is always more modern than the law that is already in force, than the law that has been in force for more than 10 years. Of course, this law is not perfect and this bill can be improved. It is very important to say that, unfortunately, the essence of this proposal is not the law on foreign affairs. The content of this proposal for a law on foreign affairs is not even interested, but is seen as a prerequisite for calling presidential elections, which is very bad because this topic should be dealt with in more detail. It's not a good thing no one's paying attention to the essence, it's just a matter of form. We all know very well that the adoption of the law on foreign affairs is a prerequisite for calling presidential elections. It is also a prerequisite, such as the precondition for calling elections and passing military laws, defence laws, the President of the Republic, presidential elections and security services. The president of the National Assembly is not there, but I am still asking the question when the opposition to this respected home will get the right to know when the president of the National Assembly will call the presidential elections and when these presidential elections will be held. Of course, it's being told by congregation towers that we can expect presidential elections to be called next week and that the first round of presidential elections will be held on January 20, 2008, but I think it would be good for the president of the National Assembly to confirm or deny this information, and officially, that we are not dealing with any stories that are being told by congregation towers, because it's really not good that the opposition doesn't know when these elections will be called. Apparently, they will be called next week, as the assembly works day and night, and the plan is that all the laws that are the precondition for calling presidential elections are passed by Friday of the week. That is why I said that no one is involved in this very important law on foreign affairs, but that the bill is seen as a prerequisite for calling presidential elections. I said earlier that it is very important that Serbia gets a modern law on foreign affairs, but that this bill could be improved. Now I'm going to make two suggestions. I ask Mr. Minister to answer these questions, or comment on those proposals that I am about to make. (President: Dear MPs, please, just a little attention, let's listen to Mr Pastor. ) One of the shortcomings in this bill is that the National Assembly has no jurisdiction in the process of setting up ambassadors and general consuls of the Republic of Serbia. I talked about this a few weeks ago and at a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the time, I said it was very good that Professor Micunovic, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, introduced the practice that members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly have the opportunity to talk to the appointed ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia. This is very good, but it is bad that there is no possibility, or jurisdiction of the National Assembly, that it has influence in the process of setting up ambassadors and general consuls of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the National Assembly has no influence in this very important process is not, of course, Professor Micunovic's fault, but because the laws now in force do not allow it and it is very bad that this bill does not provide for it. A few weeks ago we discussed this issue, and then we agreed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly would refer one amendment to this proposed text and that the National Assembly would have some responsibility in setting up ambassadors and general consuls. Of course, I don't think the National Assembly should have a veto in these processes, but it would be very important for the National Assembly, as the highest representative home of the Republic of Serbia, to have some influence in the process of setting up ambassadors. On the other hand, it is also foreseen in some countries in the region. A few weeks ago, at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I set an example for Hungary, where, prior to the appointment of the ambassador, the president of the Republic of Hungary's National Assembly gave an opinion on the proposed candidate for the country's ambassador to another country. I think a similar solution should also apply Serbia and it would be very important that the National Assembly has some influence. The second proposal, proposed by the MPs of the Minority Group and formally proposed in the form of an amendment, concerns improving the current state of employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of National Minorities. I took out a few weeks ago at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that minority members are practically missing from the Foreign Ministry. At that time, the minister said that he also knows some Bosniaks, and some Hungarians and members of some other minorities in the ministry, and that is certainly good, but that figure certainly does not match the population ratio, certainly does not match data from the latest census in the Republic of Serbia. Then I told Mr. Minister that, of course, we do not expect the key system to be introduced, we do not expect it to be the system that existed in the 1970s at the Ministry, that ambassadors are being set up by the key system, but I said it would be very important to improve this proportion and that it would be good for a number of reasons. One reason is that the current catastrophic indicators on the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, as well as the foreign ministry, would be very good. On the other hand, it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, I said it was also in the interest of the Republic of Serbia that in the Ministry of Labour bilateral co-operation, means co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, or the Republic of Serbia and Slovakia, Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Albania, I could name there several other countries, primarily from the environment, are employees of people who know the country, who have contacts in those countries, who know the language of those countries. It would be in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to have some members of national minorities in those jobs, and of course this also applies to diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia; it would be good to apply it to diplomatic and consular representations. We have formulated one amendment, and this amendment does not exclusively propose the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, but is also proposed by the Roma Party, the Union of Roma Serbia, and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley and the People's MPs of the Sandzak List. So all those MPs who entered the National Assembly on the list of some minority party. The amendment reads this: "In order to actively involve members of national minorities in the ministry's work, measures will be taken to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the ministry. "The solution would also be applied when setting up ambassadors and high-level diplomats, as well as the appointments of other diplomats. We think this amendment is good, it's applicable, it doesn't mean the introduction of a "key" system in employment. Once again, it would be very important to adopt this amendment, not only to improve the catastrophic indicators of the engagement of members of national minorities in the foreign ministry, but also to be in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, primarily in bilateral co-operation with countries in the environment. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to accept this amendment on behalf of the Ministry and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would also be good to formulate this solution in a way that the National Assembly has an impact on the appointment of ambassadors. Mr. Minister said earlier that the job was to ensure that the diplomatic service, or diplomatic apparatus, was effective and young. This would certainly contribute to the involvement of members of national minorities in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am very sorry that the minister came out while I was saying, that the minister is not interested in the amendment proposed by all minority members of the National Assembly, all authentic representatives of national minorities, but I hope that the assistant ministers will convey everything I said and that this amendment will be adopted, because the adoption of this amendment is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12772	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12773	I am sorry to interrupt this idol for a moment between the minister and the Serbian Radical Party, but under article 25, the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the post of MP. So, with regard to the debate that was led here yesterday, I must say that LDP and Cedomir Jovanovic have so far been accused more than 20 times by a person representing himself as a spokesman for the DSS, whose name is Andreja Mladenovic. Today is the 20th time that this person did not appear at the trial in a case against him for slander. So, the matrix is clear... He hasn't broken the record yet, he's got Dean Michael's record, he hasn't come 27 times yet. Mr. Mladenovic, given the lies he tells the media every day, is rapidly approaching this record. So, the matrix is known: one person, in the name of the ruling coalition or DSS, told a lie; there was a lie tabloid, Miskovic's newspaper, tycoon and other leaves, RTS spinning nonstop. We sue, try through the institutions of this country to solve this problem that such lies are constantly being told, and these persons do not appear in court until the case is obsolete. Given that yesterday's debate or one of the topics of the debate was a statement by that person, I felt it was very important that parliament knew that this person, who is a liar, did not appear in court. In a particular case, it's not about that statement, it's about someone else, but we sued him for the one quoted yesterday. Twenty times he avoids showing up in court and thus gives him the opportunity to spread his lie and stupidity further. I call on parliament, if possible, to determine in any way where this person is. So he didn't show up in court because he couldn't be called. Imagine, the DSS doesn't know that such a person exists. Well, that person presents himself as their spokesman! So, if anyone can help that creature get a call and he finally comes to court and gets a chance to explain to the institutions of this country why and in whose name that lie is telling... So I will repeat again, Andreja Mladenovic, spokesman for one of the ruling coalition's parties, Kostunica's party, failed to appear at the trial for the 20th time. So I ask the Members of Parliament, until these questions are settled in court, that they no longer quote this person, at least until we find out that he exists, and that he exists, and that we will show him by showing up in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12774	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12775	I don't know what you needed, Mr. Andric, to call the SRS. There is no idyll between the foreign minister and the SRS, there is our position that whoever wants to defend Serbia will have our support and that we will prevent you from belonging to the Shiptars of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12776	National MP Nikola Žutić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12777	Dear MPs, Mr. Chairman, the minister has not answered my question regarding the organisation of the ministry. This law shows that even the reasoning is not in line with the basic text of the law. For example, the reason for the law says that the law on foreign affairs regulates the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the organisation of the foreign affairs ministry. There is no such organization in the basic text. Furthermore, it is said - the interior arrangement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is regulated in accordance with the Constitution, while the law on foreign affairs is prescribed that the Ministry consists of organisational units in the country and diplomatic and consular offices in other countries and international organisations. Therefore, it clearly states that the law has prescribed an organisation, however, in the basic text of the law there is no word on it. It's just an incredible discrepancy between basic text and reasoning. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12778	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Liberal Democratic Party and the Vojvodjan Group of MPs. I give my word to Parliamentarian Alexander Marton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12779	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. The Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina will support their votes in the day to vote on this bill. We believe that the setting of a quality framework for our country's international relations, as well as regulation of the interrelationships between state authorities in international relations, should have been asked much earlier as a question discussed by citizens' representatives in the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia. Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina believe that with this law of diplomacy, the Republic of Serbia can rest on sound grounds, and we want to commend that. However, it should be pointed out that a lot of things in this country rest on good legal solutions, but daily policy has really convinced us that final solutions don't always have to be good. Otherwise, it runs seven months since the formation of a new republican government, and we must point out that, regardless of the government's dissatisfaction with the work in the global and above all its Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, Minister Jeremic deserves a high grade, primarily because of his agility and desire to improve the international position of the Republic of Serbia as much as possible. The real question is what is the current foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. Is there one foreign policy or maybe two? Who performs from the position of rightholders in the international relations of the Republic of Serbia? We in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have pointed out before that we believe that there is not only one Government of the Republic of Serbia, meaning that one led by Prime Minister Kostunica, but two: one, Kostunica and the other, Djelic. This is also foreign policy -- two stories about NATO, two stories about the EU, two stories about strategic partners in Europe, two stories about relations with Russia, two stories about relations with countries in the neighbourhood. We recall a recent example of adviser Vojislav Kostunica, who called our first neighbour, the Republic of Montenegro a quasistate. This certainly was not an example of Serbia's good international policy. I suppose Minister Jeremic, I am convinced, I am quite sure, disagreed with this assessment of the prime minister's advisers, but the fact is that someone other than the competent authority was dealing with issues of the external relations of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia should lead a wise policy, a wise foreign policy, to build good trust relations with the European Union, with the United States, the Russian Federation, China, Arab states, countries of the region. We should, by modelling Bulgaria and Romania, seek to strengthen our foreign policy position and reputation. Sofia and Bucharest, the capitals of Bulgaria and Romania, are now the centres of numerous international associations, so not a day goes by without an important meeting at the ministerial or parliamentary level in these capitals. Can the Government of the Republic of Serbia make Serbia such a state? We, in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, believe that we can and the sea, but we need a unique platform, without wandering and cheap nationalist demagogy. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina supports and will support Minister Jeremic's efforts to continue seeking to bring Serbia into order of normal world states. In the end, I'd like to tell Mr. Jeremic that he has to take more account of the AP Vojvodina. There is an agreement between Minister Vuk Jeremic and the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, on the representation of Vojvodina personnel in Serbian diplomacy. We think it's important, but not enough. It is necessary to settle this issue systematically, rather than depending on the goodwill of the minister, who now exists, but the question is whether there will be when another minister is in office. So 27% of the population of the Republic of Serbia lives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and we believe that Vojvodina must also have a proportionate representation. I think it's a good suggestion from us from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina Minister Jeremic that the issues of the AP Vojvodina's representation and its personnel in Serbian diplomacy must be given by the AP Vojvodina, and I think that is how quality human resources can be made. Finally, LSV and SVM, once again to point out, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12780	The People's MP Vesna Pesic has the word, then the MP Bojana Aleksic, then the MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12781	Honourable MPs and MPs, respected representatives of the foreign ministry, the first thing I would say is that there is a small misunderstanding here because of the name of this law and what the law really refers to. This is not a law on foreign affairs, and it was a debate with my predecessors, MPs and ministers, because there are no foreign policy, foreign affairs in terms of the functioning of the priority strategy. We were talking about the defense yesterday, and the military had a concept of defense, and then after that, the institution that had to do it. So we don't have those elements here. It's not really a law on foreign affairs, it's a law on the work of the Foreign Ministry. So that would be the correct name of this law. Then there's a misunderstanding, because people are looking for concept elements, and this is really, really, in the right sense, technically for the organisation of the Foreign Ministry, so it creates confusion, and then we have too much debate, because there's no discussion here. So we can ask that some other document and law solve it, but this is really, in the right sense, the technical law on the organisation of the Foreign Ministry, and that's the right word, so because of these misunderstandings that have been wasting time, and obviously we shouldn't have. If so, I think it would remove a number of misunderstandings that might arise. One such misunderstanding, which I will draw attention to, is because here at the foreign ministry we cannot determine the capacities and needs of Serbian diplomacy. As we know, it was Yugoslav diplomacy, which had one foreign policy, a policy of non-classified, etc. and large countries, and then the SRJ, and then Serbia-Montenegro, so that now that Serbia has become an independent state, we cannot determine without these preliminary concept strategic issues, which is indeed the capacity of the Serbian state's diplomacy, which is an independent state. Why do I say that? Because I have not noticed that, due to the separation of Montenegro, there has been a reduction or assessment of what is needed, nor is there a public debate, how much diplomacy is needed today in Serbia. That's what I'm saying as a MP, who needs to take care of how budget funds are spent, because when it comes to the Ministry, it's covered by citizens' funds. So we have no assessment at all, nor the possibility to discuss what extent diplomacy is needed today for Serbia and how this scope of diplomacy is determined at all. So that's not there, there's no criteria, we can't estimate it, we can't say it's too big, we can't say it's too small. I, for some time, as a borrowed official in that ministry, hear, may not be true, but I hear there's a consulate opening in the Dominican Republic. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but it's a rumor. I mean, there are stories like that, and instead of saying it in the end, I'm going to say it now, there's not enough good communication, nor any provision on the work of the Ministry. A fellow pastor said there is no role of the National Assembly, but there is no regular public relations with the foreign ministry, while we are already talking about the work of the foreign ministry and the organisation of the ministry, the regular public relations. There are no scheduled press conferences, so, let's say, I'm called from "Blica" and they're asking why Minister Jeremic... It doesn't matter if it applies to him, it can be directed to anyone. They say we've heard that he solves 183 and returns 183 workers. And I say, please, Mr. Blic, can you contact the Ministry or me, because you have my phone number, I should give you answers to questions that I really can't answer on which basis people are coming back? Why? Because you need to justify every solution and return before the deadline, it needs to be explained in public because, citizens don't know it, very expensive, when you come back from there, that's where containers are paid, etc.; so there's a reason to justify all this in public. Public relations are not regulated, and there are issues that are very important. Every time, therefore, if there is indeed such a hoax in the ministry, it is to come out and explain itself to the public, not to call the former ambassadors and ask such questions. So, there's no member, I'm looking for a public relationship in the work of the Ministry itself, but that's not there, so that's what I'm trying to say. Also, when it comes to organising the ministry's service itself, what I have already pointed out, it was also good, given this politicisation that we are constantly talking about in the Assembly, that ambassadors are being placed on the political line, that these are exclusively criteria, that very often they forget whether they know foreign languages at all, they do not know foreign languages, so the pensioners for ambassadors are leaving, and I will draw particular attention to this, which is also a violation and internal regulation of the ministry itself, to make a strategic assessment of what the objectives of the ministry itself are. Let's say, can we say that in the near future 80% of diplomatic officials will be placed on the professional line and 20% on the political side. Why do I say that? Because all countries that have fully professionalised their diplomacy also have one percent of the placement and beyond. It's not unusual and it's not the same as the Constitutional Court. Some criteria, when it comes to diplomacy, must be respected and respected, but a forecast of what would be ideal and what should be pursued, what percentages would be good here, etc. It's also supposed to be kind of... I wish I had found it in this law, because it was already mentioned that diplomacy should be a modern, professional, Mr. Minister said that, some criteria of professionalisation, the goals of professionalisation, when it can be achieved, which would be the ratio in Serbia, I think you could say that too. But there's really not a word about it; the law is so technical that on these issues, which really concerns the very organisation of the Ministry, and they're a little wider, there's nothing in this law at all, too, I'd say, if I didn't read the article, I think it's Article 42, Mr. Minister, please pay attention, that there's a very reasonable solution. It can really be very arbitrary. Not to read article 42 now, but if you'd like, let's take a look at it: "Aside from the reason for the resolution from the position... "and so on. - One sentence. And resolutions are very important, because, as you know, they make stories, and it's true that every... And your party chief is in charge, as president of the Republic, now he's going to sign the appointments, and I don't know who's signing, I guess, the government, the resolutions. You should explain. When you go to that press release, let's really see how and when they get rid of it. It's a very dorky member. When it comes to resolutions, I would really expect a little clearer and to add that article 42. Let's continue that previous discussion, when it comes to how jobs are filled, because there are also members, whether 34, 35, it doesn't matter how consular representations and diplomatic representations are filled abroad. I can say something according to my own experience -- while I was an ambassador to Mexico, believe me, I was alone for three months, because my first secretary, or emissary of business, was in counseling status, expired and returned. I was alone for three months at the embassy, except for domestic officials, those who were employed, the driver and the secretary. I've done all the work on my own without any need. After that, I saw the embassy in Mexico and the secretaries, both these and those. Why? What's the excuse for that? No former Yugoslav republic has opened an embassy in Mexico. Mexico then brought diplomatic relations with us to the level of the emissary, and we sent an ambassador and filled the embassy with new employees. So there are no criteria here as to how and on what basis it is planned, because I see that really many people (and I understand that) who work at the Ministry, because there are very small salaries in the Ministry, sitting on the edge of the chair and waiting to be sent abroad. Thus, unnecessarily, these embassies are filled with unnecessary officials. I don't think that's well resolved. I'd finally like to say that somehow I felt when I was working in that ministry, that a number of ambassadors... And the Mexican ambassador to Belgrade has always come to consult in Mexico and visited me because he has regularly consulted ambassadors with ministers in January. It's almost a famous thing that all ambassadors come to consultations, undergo additional training, those who are already ambassadors. Trust me, never any consultation... (Vuk Jeremic, from the post: December 16th, all ambassadors will be. ) Well, I'm just telling you because of the law that there is no mandatory consultation of ambassadors here, I haven't found a member on mandatory consultations. While I saw that in other countries there was a mandatory consultation, in the organization of our ministry I did not find that mandatory consultation. I'm telling you from experience, and then I watched the law. Those aren't any terrible remarks. I'm just saying, when I was working, I saw that there was no, I saw that there was no consultation, no public relations, so I suggest, if you're already working on technical law, that you do this technical law so that he's well organized by that ministry, if there's no other part of this -- the foreign policy priority, which some other MPs were talking about. There is no mandatory member on the consultation and there is not even communication. If I, as ambassador, seek instruction on a particular matter, ask you from there to God, nothing will come to you from the Ministry. I don't know if there's anyone else who's been... You write letters, wait for answers for anything, there's no answer. You're on your own, you're supposed to be expressing state policy... Some ask us to attend some patriotism schools, and I graduate from those high schools. Therefore, I may not have needed it, but others need it, but when you ask for consultations, instructions on certain questions, there is no answer. If you ask the Ministry for instructions on a particular question, you can ask, ask, ask, but there is no answer. Communication between diplomatic and consular offices and the ministry is very difficult, it does not work and very often people in diplomatic and consular representations are left to themselves, they cannot get instructions from the ministry itself. Besides, I'd just like to say this. I'm asking you to seduce the order, the experience, to pass it on to you... Every educated man who goes through one training isn't a diplomacy that big of an expert, as they want to show it... What is my experience, believe me, is that experienced ambassadors, who make the best impression, speak English, French, German. We send an English-speaking ambassador to Germany, it's absolutely unacceptable. Where there's a small language, where there's not much to talk about, it can, but in big countries it can't. You send, say, an ambassador to Mexico... It's a continent spoken Spanish. I'm with all the ambassadors, Russian, German, French, speaking Spanish. No one there wanted to speak English. After me, an ambassador who doesn't speak Spanish left. Please pay attention, here where these members are about expertise, it's a question of the country's reputation that if our ambassador goes to a country where there's a big language, he speaks that language; it has to be introduced as an absolute criterion. I agree with Mr. Pastor that relations with the Assembly are not regulated, nor are public relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12782	The word has the People's MP Bojana Alexic, and then MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12783	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I agree that this is one technical law. This is a good technical law, which is a prerequisite for activities in the field of foreign policy. It is true that it stems from the Constitution of Serbia, but what is much more important, and yet no one has said, it is that after almost 100 years this is the first law of the Serbian state in the field of foreign policy, or foreign affairs. To remind me that since the end of World War I, the end of World War II until last year, Serbia did not have the foreign ministry, that the foreign ministry, or foreign affairs portfolio, was in the hands of various Yugoslavias that were called differently, ultimately in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We have often been in a situation where Serbia's national interest, for the sake of compromise with the peoples we have lived with, is subordinated to the interests of other peoples. Now for the first time we can freely defend our national interest, when we talk about foreign policy and when we contact the countries of the world. This is, of course, one good law. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support it. He is divided, as the minister said, into six chapters and defines, above all, the ministry's competences. Most of the law is dedicated to the competences of the ministries, as well as the bodies that the Ministry is setting up, that is, the ministry is working part of the country, establishing our embassies abroad and consular representations and management of work, so these are our foreign representations, and it is only here that it leads foreign policy. Foreign policy is proposed by the Foreign Ministry, or the foreign minister, to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is the government that adopts foreign policy. When this government, consisting of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus and New Serbia, took over, it and all these parties defined their foreign policy priorities in their pre-election campaign, which are, above all, the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, namely defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of Serbia and the desire of the Republic of Serbia to become a member of the European Union in recent times, means that the European orientation of Serbia. At the same time, foreign policy priorities are co-operation with EU member states, and co-operation with major forces such as the Russian Federation, the United States, China, India and other major countries. It's something that we don't need to say specifically at this point, because it's defined by the government programme, which we in this assembly approved the moment we voted for the government. At this point, a fierce diplomatic initiative is under way, above all, in order to preserve Kosovo and the Serbia-based Metohija. It is an opportunity to say that all state authorities, president, prime minister, foreign minister, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and others who are helping them, are indeed fighting a lion's battle and have shown that we will not just surrender so easily and will do everything possible to achieve this first goal, the stay of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. We can take advantage of this opportunity to wish them a lot of success, although this Parliament has already pleaded many times. It is said here in the law that one of the ministry's important competences is to coordinate different state bodies, in order to implement foreign policy. These bodies, mentioned in the law, do not mention the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, whose member I am, and this is something we discussed on the Committee and what my colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Affairs talked about. I'll take the opportunity to give a few suggestions to the minister. Although there is no place for this to stand in the law, but parliamentary diplomacy is as important as the Serbian government's diplomacy, as before the Serbian Parliament, or the Serbian Parliament's delegations, are members of several European and world parliaments, where some very important decisions are also made, starting with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is certainly the most significant and whose importance probably does not need to be particularly underlined, but there is also the OSCE Assembly, the NATO Assembly, Black Sea and Economic Co-operation, etc. So, we MPs of this parliament are in a position to present in these congregations the foreign policy of the Serbian state and foreign policy priorities, that we are also fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, on the one hand, and for the European path of Serbia, on the other hand, which are two parallel processes of exceptional importance. Very often, for those of us who are parliamentarians and who are dealing with this parliamentary democracy, we have been lacking a little briefing from the foreign ministry, especially when it comes to some issues that have no direct connection with our country, but with the relations of some other countries. We're sometimes in a position to make a statement about it, so it's not bad that we know more about it. It would not be bad if there were more frequent co-operation between the foreign policy board of the Serbian Parliament and the foreign ministry. Also, I would like to underline the good practice, which the predecessors have said, that the persons appointed as ambassadors are required to come before they go to the Foreign Affairs Committee to expose their platform. This is in some sense an advisory character, but it is extremely important that the foreign policy committee will be formed these days, i.e. parliamentary friendship groups, which are also engaged in diplomacy, and it is important that members of these groups of friendships be in contact with and with persons who go to our embassies both in Europe and outside Europe, on other continents, precisely because of this coordination, which is certainly necessary. That's about what my suggestion would be. I will once again take advantage of the opportunity to wish you success in further work, as well as other representatives of our country, in an extremely important mission and in an extremely important battle that is being fought these days. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12784	Thank you. The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and then by MP Borko Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are discussing a very important topic, but I must say, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, that the importance of the topic does not follow the content of the law. It should be fair to say that this is not a law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia; this is a law on the employment status of the ministry and employees. Because, no offense, if this were the law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, then he would be moving between constitutional provisions on foreign policy, so, in my opinion, we should work out a lot of things that aren't said here. Namely, in Article 123. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the government determines and leads politics. In Article 112. The constitution states that the president represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. Article 124 states that the government is responsible for the Republika Srpska Policy Assembly. The 97th article states that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures Serbia's international position and relations with other states and international organisations. It would be logical for the vast part of this law to have a relationship between these institutions, and to see in this context and the position of the ministry, but also the position of the Assembly. You mentioned you had a wish, but you didn't have time to introduce us to what it is to be a government policy. We don't know what foreign policy policy is. We have Mr. Kostunica's exposés, here it is, but it's the government's 15 May exposé. Many MPs who listen to this and citizens of the Republic of Serbia will easily agree, when I give concrete examples, that the government does not defend what the Prime Minister has described as elements of foreign policy, or at least not all foreign ministers in the government. You know how, we have a rare opportunity to see you here, it rarely comes to our agenda on foreign policy; we get the law on foreign affairs, and we're talking about employee status and whether or not they'll be entitled to compensation and this. That, according to the Socialists, is not the law on foreign affairs. Surely the law in one part should contain these elements, but the law on foreign affairs should contain something completely different. I think it would be logical for the foreign affairs law, in addition to the government's obligation, for the minister to submit exposés on foreign policy, to possibly have MPs discuss it, to see the role of the Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. If we use other people's experiences, why, for example, we didn't foresee the possibility of our Foreign Affairs Committee talking to candidates for ambassadors. It may not be a condition for appointing, but let's see what the qualities of future ambassadors, besides those psychophysical ones, are they competent in this second part of doing business together? I am absolutely convinced that most of the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely behind what is called foreign policy or state policy of the Republic of Serbia, concerning Kosovo and Metohija, but I am not convinced that that is the case with the rest. Allow me, Mr. Minister, to read the exposés of the Prime Minister where he says - the foundations and directions of our foreign policy... and so on, and he says -- in turn, special attention will be paid to further improving excellent relations with Russia. Of the non-European states, Serbia has a special interest in developing good relations with the United States, and among other non-European countries foreign policy priorities are China and India. You know how, Mr. Minister, when we hear the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, some pay much more attention to relations with NATO. If you think relations with NATO are part of, the essence of relations with America, okay, and that's what you should say, but it's not part of the foreign policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We even criticised Mr. Sutanovac yesterday for allowing himself to talk about his relationship with NATO, a party yes, but the state does not, until the state settles the issue. These are the things where professionalism, state, party or personal differences. I think we should all insist on being as professional and as national as possible. When I mention professionalism, you mentioned a rejuvenation of diplomacy. Well done to young people, but stick to these professionals, because they'll give you good advice on what to do at a certain point. We brought our diplomacy back in the 1990s, because of sanctions, isolation, etc., into a strange position when it was not possible to refresh in the right way, but unfortunately after 2000 we experienced a sunflower, because everything was in diplomacy. We heard a few of our colleagues who were in the SMIP, so they had a chance to tell us about the chicaning they had experienced, all under the firm that they were not alike to defend the profession and interests of the state of the Republic of Serbia. Then we heard that there were all kinds of people, not to mention professionalism, because that wasn't... It's an honor to most, but it was a good number of those who didn't have professional conditions to deal with this diplomatic work -- from a waiter, a waiter getting to lead a diplomatic mission. Unfortunately, that's what it was, too. It's a disaster. Not to mention the people who ran the Foreign Ministry. For me, two examples are fraternizing. The minister of foreign affairs of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Mr. Vuk Draskovic, allowed himself to publicly tell the truth that Serbia did ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija. Now compare that statement by the foreign minister of a sovereign state, at a time when the International Court of The Hague dispute is being held, especially in the context of what the UN tribunal was doing at the time. Or, the statement by the foreign minister before him, Mr Svilanovic, who publicly announced to us who would be the case of the UN tribunal's indictment. They dealt more with their fate in those times and how to be, here I am now choosing the mildest expression, good with someone they probably prefer or who has certain obligations to them. It wasn't the foreign policy of the state. We still don't know what foreign policy is and this law will not be the law on foreign affairs or on Serbia's foreign policy. We only have the exposés of the Prime Minister, we have your statements. I think the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should get the report as soon as possible, at least in that part, Mr. Minister, which is covered by this law in those first members, with whom I agree, not with these others, no offense, which says that the Foreign Ministry is analysing Serbia's international relations with other countries, international organisations, is talking about national security... We need it all, and we don't have it. We don't have it, and you know how, it seems to me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be aware of it, not through one law or one act, but by the general knowledge of Kosovo. If Serbia has been an independent state for 17 months, then it's high time, that's what we told Mr. Sutanovac yesterday, that we also know what our national security strategy is, our defence strategy, what the defence doctrine is, and what foreign policy is, what the contents of that foreign policy are. All we need to know is that we'd look a little like a serious country. Until we know all this, all these expressions are individual, unfortunately, sometimes completely opposed, and you also confuse the MPs, and you confuse the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I've prepared a lot of things, but they have my colleagues to say. I'll draw Mr. Minister's attention just to a few indiscretions in this law on foreign affairs. I think we should work this out. Namely, it's about the department's jurisdiction. The first formulation is -- represents, with the President of the Republic... The constitution is very explicit, regarding the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, you cannot take his jurisdiction. The government leads and determines politics. The Ministry is an authority of the administration, and the administration cannot represent the Republic abroad. This advice, if you're doing it to, as I would say, later formalize something that already exists, that's one thing, but I think these formulations here are very bad. There's a lot more to it. I'll just draw attention to one more attitude. Please, Mr. Minister, a member of the 15th law says that the government is establishing a proposal to appoint a permanent diplomatic mission, on which the president, after receiving the aggregates, decides. I'm sorry, "after the acquisition of agremania", in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, regarding the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, that's not how it stands. The President of the Republic sets up and recalls the ambassadors, after receiving the aggregates, and then the President... That is, it would be logical to reach agreement between the president and the government on the candidates before that. Because it can happen, Mr. Minister, hypothetically, that we get the aggregate, and the president says, "I won't set it up." Then what did we do? We're out of the country. It's hypothetically very possible. We now have the assembly majority and the president from the same political option, and we had a previous period of cohabitation. So it could have been practical for the president to refuse or not to appoint ambassadors, as unfortunately it was during a long period of time. About the other things, through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12786	Thank you, Mr. Beard. There's a word from MP Borko Ilic. He's not here. There's a word from MP Stefan Zankov. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12787	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on foreign affairs needs to regulate an extremely important matter, especially at the moment in which Serbia is located, and mostly because of negotiations and, I would say, the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, this bill, as we heard from the predecessors, and in my opinion, is actually something else. It is not for the basic goal of repairing or regulating the situation in this area, but rather its primary task is to bring it forward as soon as possible, so that elections for the President of the Republic can be discussed. These are your basic torments and concerns regarding this bill. If it wasn't for that, who knows when it would have come to the agenda. Because if it were different, you would have let these laws into the congregation procedure much earlier, you wouldn't have waited a minute to twelve. You have a clear signal from the West (when I say you, I mean DOS, all of you together, who have managed to form a government again) when the separatists unilaterally declare Kosovo and Metohija independence, i.e. you are in a hurry because you know that Boris Tadic will not stand a chance if the elections are held afterwards. And this is how his chances are questionable, but this is definitely and certain. How will you explain to the citizens that those who are your friends, and you tried to explain to us that ours, so Americans and others from the West, are kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija? How will you explain to the citizens that they are our friends and that you are therefore pursuing some Euro-Atlantic integration. You said in 2000 that as soon as Slobodan Milosevic and his regime fell, it would solve many issues, including the Kosovo and Metohija issue. You claimed it was a democratic issue, not a territorial issue, as we always said, that it was a pure abduction of territory. What happened when Milosevic fell out of power, and his regime? You were still celebrating in Serbia's squares, and Cypriot separatists and terrorists have caused chaos in the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje areas. I want to go back to basics. You are aware that the chances of Boris Tadic in that scenario are nothing and everything you do in coordination, in the triangle DS - Thaci, Ceku, as the exponents of the separatists - Americans, or you, your friends from the West. If Tadic were a moral man, such as he is not, he would not care about the chair for several years, to be president of the Republic, when Serbia's future is at stake. If he were honorable, as he wasn't, he'd blackmail himself, and he wouldn't agree to run, his friends from the West, and he'd say, "You've cheated on us more than once." But no, it's all about the deal I was just talking about. It's not foreign affairs, it's not foreign policy. It's a betrayal of state and nation. Since 2000, you've been running a private, sly foreign policy, because you think criminals will have mercy. No, they run a serious and persistent foreign policy, and unfortunately for us it's anti-Serbian, because it's also anti-Russian. That's another thing. It's not something we can influence so much. It's a policy they don't give up on, so whoever's in power in Serbia. It's a serious foreign policy; unfortunately, I said what it was like for us. I remember when you were an opposition, you said we lost wars and media wars, because we didn't pay for ads in the American and Western media to change that, apparently, their views. You could have said that back then, because you were an opposition, but I don't think you believe it yourself today, or anyone who's serious can believe it. Only ignorant people or paid to do that can believe that. The consequences of these disastrously poor estimates cost Serbia dearly. Who have your diplomats been since 2000? Ambassadors? You only understand if you look at who the foreign ministers were: Goran Svilanovic, Vuk Draskovic and something small and Vuk Jeremic. Then what kind of ambassadors will be proposed by these people will be the citizens themselves. We've even heard that, Mr. Minister, you've given six ambassadors to the Vojvodina. We made a deal with Bojan Pajtic. I'm interested in whether it's a party deal or if some deal has been made on the territorial line. Both are not good for Serbia. Serbia's foreign minister must be the real lawyer of the Serbian state, who defends Serbia and its official stances at all costs, not the one who constantly apologizes for everything they have done to Serbia and the Serbian people, as Boris Tadic does. The word must not be said in defence of Serbian interests, both its countries and its citizens. You wrote, the Government, one wrong thing in the Republic President's Law, to say the least, where you say the former president enjoys diplomatic and consular protection when abroad. Then you accepted the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS. The problem is your thinking. That's more than obvious. You don't realize that the state must protect every citizen equally, wherever it is, at every point of the globe. What has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done for our citizens in The Hague? You have to protect them, too. Do not do anything to help them, but only to make their defenses more difficult. You can't share people like that. Your thinking is clear, but you've fixed it with one amendment. I'm done for my colleagues. Serbia's foreign minister should not be Serbian Foreign Minister. Stop listening to the counselors you've read, probably in that advisory body because they hate their own people. You seek support in friendly countries; first of all, I think of Russia, because without it, separatists would already declare independence in Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to ask the minister: has Serbia supported Croatia as a non-permanent member of the Security Council and based on whose decision? If you already look at Croatia, remember that they sent a delegation to the government to see what happened to the Lipipiers, and you remember, too, what your attitude towards your citizens and citizens abroad is like. As far as foreign policy is concerned, just one more finding, don't rush into NATO. Don't say you won't defend Kosovo and Metohija with any means. Maybe we won't, but don't say that. You can't do that. You can't run foreign policy if you don't love the state and you don't feel like yourself. That's how you behave, and your mentor Boris Tadic. I believe that after the election of Tomislav Nikolic as President of the Republic, our foreign policy will be as it should be, dignified as not masochistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12788	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after these serious talks that are being held in the National Assembly, here's some good news for the Roma community. Today, I was interviewing Dr. Milenko Cvetinovic, State Secretary for Telecommunications of the Republic of Serbia and Slobodan Laket, Deputy Minister of Telecommunications. In the interview, I presented all the current developments around our media, how they were abolished, and the facts concerning our standard of living, which is today in our country on the lowest scale, on the margins of social, economic, educational and housing policy. I asked that, according to affirmative measures and rights acquired in the Constitution of our country, the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and their rights, according to all international declarations and statutes and on the recommendations of the European Community, be given one frequency, which is the fourth provider of mobile telephony. I explained why we're looking for it. We were not involved in privatisation, nor were we allowed to participate. We, the Roma population, didn't get a single firm for 5.10 euros, for 100,000, or for 500,000 euros. That's why as a nation we have both rights and obligations in our country and we ask that the Roma people in this country be enabled to do this. When it comes to the request of the Roma community, I finally came across the understanding of both the secretary of state and the deputy minister. I've been told to file an application and have the opportunity to implement it. I also talked about making it possible for a computer centre, a computer coll-center, where all Roma and displaced persons, and Roma and neuros, to get all the information they need for their easier lives, to have at all major centres a school that we're going to form for these young people to work on a computer, which will enable them to integrate and to work. I think our country will then get more intellectual personnel, young people will be on the streets, less will have to deal with the MUP. I think this is one big shift and progress for our country, which is an affirmative character, and also for a people who live like that, to recover.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12790	The People's MP Jelena Markovic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12791	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen, agrees with what everyone today has said, from the minister, to the position and opposition – that there is a terribly difficult period in Serbia, in which one of the most difficult burdens will probably be borne by Serbian diplomacy, given that state interests are not only protected in the state, but also outside the country, in international forums and in various world metropolis. We are also aware that Serbian diplomacy, or our diplomacy before, while we were not an independent state but a community, did not always respond to the challenges set before it. In this sense, this law represents a qualitative step, since legally, by introducing some new legal institutes, it will allow us to have more modern and efficient diplomacy. The minister and his team are probably aware of the main problems the public sees regarding diplomacy. The first complaint refers to the bulkiness of the state apparatus in diplomacy, and the second concerns the expertise of diplomats and diplomatic staff working in our diplomatic and consular representations. That is why it is good that this law provides for different legal mechanisms to get us to have more capacity for diplomacy, capacity and modernity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This pay phone this morning said politics is more important than the law. I don't agree with that. I think we should have good and valid laws, which will make it impossible for us to run a private policy, a non-consistent policy and a policy that is not in line with the interests of the state and its citizens. In that sense, I would refer to several parts of the law or new institutions that this law provides. In doing so, I think first of all of the possibility of setting up advisory bodies, which I consider to be very important, especially because it is envisaged that it is a function that is not paid, that it is one place, one syncure which has only an honorable character, and on the other hand, allows the foreign minister and his team to get expertise, the knowledge of people who, by nature things, are not employees of the MIP, but who have great knowledge from the various international forums and circles in which they move. Of course, the minister, along with the government, later autonomously delivers opinions and views that will be the direction the state is moving, but I think it is necessary that such advisory bodies exist, that some different, opportunised opinions be heard. In that sense, I welcome the fact that the minister has already taken advantage of this legal institute. The other thing is about this remark that we are all aware of and that has been heard here many times, which is a question of professional skills and professional capacity of diplomats. So, I don't want to go into criticizing everything, but the fact is that some have not done this function properly in the past. I think it is very important that this law introduces mandatory checks of knowledge, not only of foreign language but of expertise, and that, in that sense, these tasks are being carried out by the diplomatic academy in the future, by suggesting to the minister, although the law allows him to organise occasional knowledge checks, to be regular, periodic knowledge checks that will cover all employees, which will allow us to have highly professional staff. Secondly, as I also find important, it is an opportunity to employ without passing exams those who, according to the law, have already shown high results in scientific and research work, have diplomatic experience and experience of working in international organisations. I don't think it's necessary to run away from the foreign ministry trying to attract our staff who are now working in international organisations and putting them in the ranks of Serbian diplomacy by a brief procedure. What is also important is that here clear guidelines are given to the work of the diplomatic academy, which will not only test knowledge, but also provide knowledge to the employees of the MIP. But it is possible that those who do not show these knowledge do not have a life-long place and a life-long synacura, but are included in one market of knowledge and skills and, in that sense, when they do not meet and do not comply with the prescribed requirements set before them by moment and service, in which case they cannot perform their function for life. In that sense, this law is quite fair. Since we are always inclined to have a lot of calls for diplomats, often unaware of how difficult it is to be a diplomat of a poor country, which is in a rather invisible international situation, I am glad that one part of the law is engaged and the rights of employees. I will welcome what the minister has underlined, which is that for the first time, this law determines the right to health insurance for employees, because we were probably the only country that did not provide health insurance and protection to its diplomats, and they were in a rather difficult position in foreign countries without such insurance. Also, speaking this time as a woman fighting for women's rights, I welcome another newspaper in this law, which you probably noticed is one member of the law that prohibits a minister from withdrawing from foreign service a woman who is on maternity leave. It is a good legal protection and a possibility for women to participate fully in the diplomatic service. From the pay phone, I remind the minister of what he is aware of, that our network of diplomatic and consular representations is a relic of a different age, a different distribution of forces, a different foreign policy that this state had and that it should exercise its right to propose to the government that this network become more rational. I guess that'll reduce the disdain and cry out to the Ministry that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12792	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Natasa Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the legislator has given four reasons to pass this law. Otherwise, the real reason is to create legal conditions for calling elections for the President of the Republic. Given that the principle debate, I will state ten reasons, only taxing, which is why this law is not good, and when the debate is in particular, we will discuss it in more detail. First, when it comes to the law on foreign policy, it is expected that this law introduces more order into this important area, and this primarily refers to the demarcation and development of the jurisdiction of key foreign policy entities, the Government, the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, and this remains here. So, I'm not saying that this law should determine the authority of the President of the Republic, because the Constitution has done it, but that they also have their capacity to exercise their competence in foreign policy. So it was left for mercy and mercy, with the mere movement of political power relations on the internal political scene. Exactly what colleagues have stated, this is a law on foreign affairs only by name. Otherwise, the real name for this law is the foreign ministry law. And if that were the case, it wouldn't even be the law. Of course, it's about the competent authority for the state administration and the employment relations of the employees, so I don't keep counting. The question arises, if legal matter is so regulated, what are the roles and powers of the President of the Republic, the National Assembly in foreign policy, that is how these highest state authorities exercise their responsibilities in foreign affairs. Third, if the law on foreign affairs does not provide for the President of the Republic and the National Assembly to participate in the establishment of a single foreign policy, then there are great risks of disunity in its interpretation and implementation. I guess it should be clear to everyone: inside our country we can argue, we all need to protect the state and the state interests outside. So there are great risks, not only as a potential danger, but also as part of reality. In addition, the diametrically different views of the president of the Republic and of the Prime Minister are on the issue of the country's NATO membership, which is certainly not and must not be treated as a daily political or party issue, but rather as a strategic issue. Military neutrality or NATO membership is the heart of the strategy, not the ground for showing freedom of opinion to the country's most responsible representatives. That's missing. Furthermore, the fifth, jurisdiction and procedures for the signing of international agreements are not clearly regulated. Who can take on obligations for Serbia in international relations and in what way and in what areas? In practice, there have been serious misunderstandings and public political conflicts between the highest state authorities on procedures and powers to conduct negotiations and sign international contracts, including the most sensitive as they are in the military area. We have an example of that unfortunate man, Vuk Draskovic, who, when he signed an agreement on the passage of NATO troops, declared that the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic were familiar with it, that they gave consent, they denied it, and the consequence was that the world could conclude that this was an unserious state. Mr. Minister, why don't you tell the public, to avoid any speculation further, did the President of the Republic sign that so-called. SOFA agreement? If so, on what grounds? What is the constitutional and legal basis for this? If it isn't, why don't you say it isn't, so you don't have to make speculation about it, etc? Sixthly, this law is not clearly defined which international agreements must be submitted for ratification. The constitution says the National Assembly ratifys international agreements if the law provides. Which one? Seven, Article 5(5) provides for the ministry to propose membership to the government, i.e. the participation of the Republic of Serbia in international organisations. It is not clear who decides to participate in international organisations. That's not clear from this law. Serbia's membership in international organisations concerns its strategic definitions and it predestines the country's international position and is not such an irrelevant issue. Should membership, say, in the Partnership for Peace in NATO be decided by the Assembly? Otherwise, we are in favour of deciding on NATO membership in the referendum. Eight, modern diplomacy is primarily economic diplomacy and leverage to protect each country's economic and technological interests. In these 27 points referred to in Article 5, no point could belong to that. I think it's a huge lack of this law. Nine, modern diplomacy is professional diplomacy. We've heard so many examples of what they've been in the past today, we don't waste any time on it, from ambassadors who didn't know foreign language, through employment, by setting ambassadors of personal, taboo, I don't know which, personal gynecologists, sexologists, and I don't know who, etc. In fact, the problem with this law is that there is no clear indication that diplomacy is a professional service, nor that instruments and procedures guaranteeing professional diplomacy are established. There's no public competition institution either. There's a wide open door for a transfer, and I'm not counting any further. Of course, such authority as the minister has in the law leaves unlimited possibilities for continuing and deepening admission practices according to the criteria of party similarity, friendship, kinship and any other kind of nepotism, at the heart of professionalism and the stability of diplomatic service and profession. And, quite in the end, the tenth -- if the motion is to be a modern European law, why did the law not find the place of hearing institutions for ambassadors in parliament? It is already a practice in many countries. This institution would certainly be a defense for excessive improvisation. It would act preventively, because only its existence would prevent the proposings from proposing absurd and suspicious appointments, and perhaps it would encourage the candidates themselves to withdraw because they do not want public embezzlement in the assembly committee, which would be exposed to unpleasant questions both about the work of ambassadors and personal and private nature. We've listed only these ten reasons why we think the proposed law is not good, and more detail about it when there's a discussion of the details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12794	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12795	Ladies and gentlemen, the law on foreign affairs that lies ahead is criticised for the lack of what the law on foreign affairs should not have, and this is a strategy for foreign policy and connection with other state bodies, whose competence within the framework of foreign policy should be defined by other laws. So, in these ten minutes, I will try to explain in two parts my reasons for accepting such a law, in the first part of an objection that I have made to some members of the law, and in the second part of the comment on what has been said so far about the strategy of foreign policy, about the criticism of representatives within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the previous period, so it refers to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, until the independent Serbia in 1878, just so that we do not remain in the delusions and the untruths that are pronounced with incredible ease from this address. So, Article 58 is a member of my interest in this law for the simple reason that for a large number of people, with different appointments, the Ministry should regulate health, pension and social security. The fact is that with health insurance we have problems as a country and we had them in the previous period because of unsigned agreements with countries where we had diplomatic and consular representations, but it is also a fact that primarily spouses, not appointed by the Ministry for any of the functions, but, of course, for family reasons, follow their husband or their wife, or are adults, have problems with pension and disability social security. This article 58 was written vaguely. I'll read the article in full. Therefore, it refers to the right to extended insurance and the return of spouses to work and reads: "During the duration of the work at the diplomatic and consular office, the spouse of the employee has the right to pay pension and disability insurance from the Ministry's funds, provided that he was employed or registered with the competent employment service before going abroad. "The second position: "The time the employee spent working in the diplomatic and consular representation will count on his spouse, who, as an unemployed, has been registered with the competent employment service, in an insurance internship that is equal to the work experience. "The last position: "The funds needed to ensure the rights of this member are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. "My intervention on this article is not an amendment for the simple reason I know the weight of the problem. Such a member, which refers to the rights of spouses appointed in the ministry, could probably not have been better formulated, but intervention is also public because of the Assembly's stenogram, because I want to make it clear to the Minister and the Ministry that the internal documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clearly specify what the obligations of the Ministry are to fulfil the rights of spouses and relatives of those appointed by the Ministry to any of the functions. It is not a question of money how much is a matter of self-respect and respect for those we send on our behalf to represent the interests of the Serbian state in any of the diplomatic and consular offices. The other two remarks heard from both opposition parties and coalition members refer to the position of the National Assembly, and I share with all of you the view that representatives, therefore, officials, whether appointed as ambassador or as attaches, must be bound by the decisions of the Ministry to the National Assembly, that is, by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I tend to do is write it precisely in the Law on the National Assembly, so not only when it comes to foreign policy, not only when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also other ministries. So what they are obliged to do before they make decisions, because it is understood that they are obliged to come to report and that they are obliged to come to the hearings. This part of the link between the National Assembly, i.e. the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry, must be elaborated in detail in the Law on the National Assembly. For the fourth time, I have signed a bill on the National Assembly, in order to ensure that this law provides the basics for every assembly in the region, every congregation in the country in transition has, and this is the independent budget of the National Assembly, and that we MPs in this Law on the National Assembly, and on the basis of the Constitution, determine what is required for all of us to control. That depends on us 250 and seeing that we have the agreement that we want to listen to both ambassadors and other appointed and authorised persons in the ministry, I have no doubt that we will succeed. Now the second part, about what's been heard about the foreign policy strategy, whether it's there or not, who's implementing it. I will remind you that by the will of the people of Montenegro in May 2006, we became an independent state and that Minister Vuk Jeremic is indeed Serbia's first foreign minister, after almost a hundred years. The remarks made in this assembly paint all the difficulties we went through as a state, as two names were mentioned, Minister Vuk Draskovic... I would expect the current opposition to criticise the period of work of Minister Draskovic between 21 May 2006 and May 2007, as this is the reason for criticism I would probably agree with in a large part. He was the state union minister of Serbia-Montenegro, as was Goran Svilanovic. The strategies have been put forward in the former National Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. the SRJ Assembly. Some of you who were in that assembly could also listen to the strategy and in that institution, which no longer exists, control what has been applied, which is not. It is often forgotten, the opposition's desire to criticise the current ruling majority, that in 2001 the coalition government was in the SRJ, with SNP from Montenegro, and then with Mr. Pesic, as prime minister, when Mr. Zizic resigned in June 2001 because of a decision to fulfil his obligations to The Hague tribunal, Slobodan Milosevic handed over to The Hague. So that's the context in which these two worked. It should be very imaginative to link that context to what is currently the law on foreign affairs, but it is freedom of criticism of opposition parties and I will first defend full freedom and creativity in this criticism. What is missing is a request for a foreign policy strategy that would be the subject of a conversation here in our assembly. Instead, it is presented with ease again -- and what has been done with Kosovo, with this assembly also giving the platform to the negotiating team, with this assembly, unanimously, declaring its will for all those who will participate in the foreign policy defence business of the Serbian state. So when these two things are compared, then it's very easy to bring down criticism relating to the current non-existent agenda of the foreign policy strategy. Just a little bit on the history of Serbia's foreign policy, because I belong to unpopular politicians who will challenge any appeal to the famous and bright tradition of the history of democracy, the history of Serbia's foreign policy, as it is truly short and more in moments in textbooks and brief chapters, than it is something we could be proud of. Paradoxically, but foreign policy on whose good results we can talk about, when it comes to Serbia, belongs to a single-party period. It falls into what the single-party state – SFRY, so FNRJ had as a result of foreign policy in various segments. Before that, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, i.e. the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, it is difficult for you to talk about the ups and outs of Serbia's foreign policy, and before that you can only talk about the days, years and decades when Serbia was the object of someone's foreign policy, rarely or not a subject. I will end up with one good place and one good event that Serbia has today. The place is the Sremski Karlovci, and the building is the Chapel of Peace, where the Karlovsky Peace is signed and where you first have a building with four entrances that were to enter four sides that were supposed to sign a peace treaty that then the people who lived there were supposed to turn into reality. You've never had such an event before and rarely after. I end up with a story about the Chaplain of Peace because we were still participants in these events and I think it's one of the good events and one of what is said to be light events, which we can call upon when we talk about all the events from the foreign policy where today's territory, our state of Serbia, was too often an object, and too rarely a subject. With a desire to call the Minister for Foreign Affairs at hearings and with full certainty that he will appear in the Assembly with a foreign policy strategy, I hope that we will all discuss together what the Ministry must do, and after the adoption of the law on foreign affairs that the Assembly must do in order for Serbia to, in the future, in the era of modern, public diplomacy, to be more and more entities, and less or less, no object of foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12796	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Thank you to all the MPs for a very constructive discussion. Thank you, Minister, and your associates. I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12797	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon work. One notice, we'll be working after 18 hours on the agenda that's under way, but no longer than 20 hours. The minister will arrive. The People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12798	I want to say that there is an extremely important law in front of us because it treats one area important for every country, which is foreign policy. The foreign policy of every modern state must go hand in hand with trends characterized by the modern world. What is characteristic of world processes is different, to moments and contradictory processes, which intertwine. On the one hand, these are integration processes and regionalization processes, mutual co-operation, and on the other hand, these are various neural points, crisis points in general on the planet. What has also been a feature of the modern world since 1945, since the end of World War II, is to date a dynamic structure, or dynamic global structure. We remember that by 1990 the world was bipolar. With the destruction of the Berlin Wall, however, certain trends in a unilateral image of the planet have begun, but today we see that the world is becoming increasingly multipolar and that different value systems exist, either being forced or beginning to live in certain areas on various continents. The world, therefore, is one dynamic place, kinetics that characterizes modern processes, instead of a static system that used to be in place, in ancient times. For every country, including ours, it is important that we define our place in such a world, and that is why foreign affairs must be arranged in an efficient way. I think we have a good text in front of us of the bill, which represents the necessary legal framework for the conduct of foreign policy. The solutions we've had so far and that still have a large part of it are anachronous, overcome, and one of these laws is necessary in any case. It's also our obligation under the Constitutional Law. This law, which lies before us, is also based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on these two Vienna conventions, as well as on the Ministry Act, i.e. in many of its segments, this law discusses the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state bodies. What's important here to point out, and it's incorporated in this law, is that the government determines foreign policy, and the other state authorities, firstly the Foreign Ministry, conducts that policy. From Article 5 of this Law, I will list only a few responsibilities, i.e. the foreign ministry, the first three-four points, the Ministry represents, alongside the President of the Republic, the Republic of Serbia, in relations with other countries, international organisations, courts and other international institutions, as well as their representations in the Republic of Serbia; it protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and legal persons abroad; it proposes to the Government the foreign policy it establishes; it proposes establishing and terminating diplomatic relations with other countries; it proposes government membership, i.e. the participation of the Republic of Serbia in international organisations and integration, as well as other forms of international co-operation. So in this law we have two segments of jurisdiction of the law and obligations of the state authorities. The first is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and these are the relations of this ministry with other state bodies within the Republic of Serbia, and we have external communication, which is what this ministry is doing internationally. It should be pointed out that all these legal solutions are based on several principles, which are principles of co-operation, coordination and communication. I noted at the beginning of the presentation, and it is important to point out that there is a concreteisation of every area provided for by the Ministry Act. I will list just some, it is that the Ministry proposes that the government establish or suspend diplomatic relations with other countries; membership, that is, participation in international organisations; adoption of a strategy for the development of foreign affairs and other measures that shape the foreign policy of the Government; it organises official visits at diplomatic and state level; it organises systems of information, telecommunications, couriers and other links with diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad. What should particularly be pointed out here as the quality of this law, which is one fact that exists, is professional training within our diplomatic and consular service and the existence of a diplomatic academy that greatly contributes to the formation of professional staff and a completely different and much more professional way of leading foreign policy. Serbia certainly not only bids, but deserves one special, leaderial post in the region. We believe that not only through the economy, through the development of human rights and through all those other areas, but also through the management of foreign policy, that leadership position in the region, which belongs to it anyway, will win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12799	Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12800	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I said this morning when I advertised Article 136. Rules of Procedure, we Serbian radicals believe this law on foreign affairs should have been done more comprehensively. We can also argue over the name, I heard from counterpart Comic that she does not share that legally followed-up historical aspect of the Serbian state that Professor Zutic presented, but well. Let it be called the law on foreign affairs, this one is not in the right sense of words. You yourself have admitted, Mrs. Kolundjia, that he is more editr of the ministry's work than he defines what we Serbian radicals expected. We don't think it could have been done with this law. And as it could be, because there are many strangers left – some of them you yourself, too, Col. Komic, have admitted – when it comes to the Parliament and the ministry themselves. It is a very important link in defining what is Serbia's foreign policy at a sensitive moment, and this sensitive moment, unfortunately, has been going on for us for decades. I now have to call upon one of the greats of world diplomacy, who set the example for all diplomats around the world and who defined the political situation here in Serbia and the Balkans, Mr. Henry Kissinger. In the 1990s, he said that the Balkans were burdened and burdened with many problems and that here the notion of a national, national state, ethnic, historical, cultural and every aspect of all peoples and Serbs would be Orthodox, both Muslim and Catholic religions, as he spoke and wrote in his books and our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, will play a very important role in defining and rounding the continents in terms of the national and relations of these countries to the outside world. That Kissinger was right, and Dr Vojislav Seselj also says that where we are now coming and our criticism at the expense of Serbian "diplomats", some, and above all harsh criticism over anti-Serbian foreign policy led by Goran Svilanovic and Vuk Draskovic. Because, in that period of dark dossage rule, from October 5th until June, when we started to talk more openly, and perhaps with the greater intensity of politicians representing, but not enough, because we still don't have a report from the negotiating team, but let's look back at one, another resolution and the platform on Kosovo and Metohija, to talk about how far we can go and as long as we have to go in the protection of national and national interests, we haven't really had the words... That's what these distinguished gentlemen should know, since they are professional diplomats, except for Mr. Gaša Knezevic, who I really don't know how he is, from which drum he was drawn to be the chief legal advisor, because he has shown his wrongly as a representative of the Dossowian government since 5 October. But since it is there where it is, it should certainly monitor what will happen next in the process of resolving the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. What we lack is not only the foreign ministry's relationship with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is our basic objection, it should have been a special chapter in the law, which will clearly define that the foreign minister needs at least twice a year, and in what time we live and what trials await us and what challenges and more times, if necessary, and once a month, at the Committee's session, to submit a report. Perhaps Minister Jeremic is not familiar with the fact that the interior minister submits a report on his work at least twice a year. And, if for one country, internal security and stability are important, and the minister comes twice before the MPs (I am a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, here I am in the second term and on that committee), it is very important that we have one review, a comprehensive review of the activities, even if it was statistics, as Jocic's report once did, but with the possibility that this committee takes hours and that we question the minister. It's a little time, and I'm really gonna have to... because of many Serbian radical colleagues who will talk about this very serious issue for a country. It is particularly important to us, because we believe that the elected president of Serbia in two months will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to define the country's foreign policy in the way he will be able, as a responsible statesman and man, to represent it. I'll refer to the part where I said this morning that the law is not even in line with the legal normative, recognizable, defined solutions in the existing conventions. The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations... At first, I thought that you had called in Article 7 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, but then you introduced something besides this advice, where the advisory body has an honorary nature, so the honours of nature are both Svilanovic and all those chosen as such by Vuk Jeremic to advise him, and in fact worse than worse, as regards the relationship to the Serbian national issue above all. I was referring to article 7 on the establishment of some sort of agency, or the possibility of us having a consular agency in the ranks of the general consulates. This does not know international, or diplomatic practices in the world. If you've called that particular Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, you'll see it doesn't exist there. She knows only the class of the head of the consulate in Article 9 and is said to be - the head of the consulate is divided into four classes and these classes are the consul general, consul, viceconsul and consular agent. In the end, I will end with it (for, behold, it stands out that seventh minute according to our internal agreement) as the Serbian Radicals, and I believe millions of citizens, we see Serbia in relation to the outside world and preservation, above all, Kosovo and Metohija and state and national interests. By not, unlike you, first of all from the Democratic Party, to repeat - we are going to Europe, to Europe, etc. We've been in Europe a long time. Again to return to another famous sentence of Henry Kissinger, when asked, what is Europe's phone number. Of course, I'm not going to ask that from the assembly pay phone, because it doesn't matter to me at all, it's important to me that the relationship between the countries of Europe... First of all, the Russian Federation has towards Serbia such a friendly, responsible relationship at this moment as it is, and then all the other states and great powers of the world that are ready to support us in preserving our country and preserving what we Serbs are, and we are a peaceful, just-loving people and people who have spent their entire lives working together and caring for friendly relations with all those who respect us, prices and who know that we have always just defended what is ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12801	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 225(1). A Rules of Procedure which says that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. My question is very much about the agenda, i.e. the agenda point, because today we heard some comments in the morning part of the session, which I didn't quite understand. Let's just say, one colleague said it mattered that the law was pretty fair. I really don't understand what unfair law looks like, all I know is what unfair law enforcement looks like and what it looks like when the law isn't the same for everyone and when they're not all the same under the law. All citizens of Serbia know this from 2000 to today. The same colleague said that it's good to have this diplomatic academy and that it's good for young people to pass that exam, which is certainly good, but then she further said that even when they pass the exam and they're satisfied on the basis of that exam, then they're assigned to a job, and in the meantime they find out they're not satisfied, that they're no longer satisfying, then they go to the knowledge market. First of all, I don't know what "the knowledge market" is, and secondly, is it this way that we are told that both in this ministry and in diplomacy, the absolute political, or party state in this segment is legal, because, unfortunately, Serbia is a party state at all levels, from the Constitutional Court, through ministries, the government is not controversial, to the lowest authorities in local self-governments. The minister is not here right now, but I hope that at least he's listening somewhere, to tell him that his very poor choice is Mr. Gašo Knezevic as an adviser, because we remember Gaša Knezevic. And you must remember that historic one of yours, Mr. Knezevic - him or me, when you failed to exorcise Dr. Vojislav Seselj from Law School. Of course, you lost that dispute at the court, so the judges who ruled on it had problems with the doss ministers. And you are well-known, Mr. Knezevic, and for what you have said from this place, and in all the media, that the fact that you have changed Dr. Vojislav Seselj's (end of this sentence) from the Faculty of Law is not at all controversial, because you have already done the draft of the law and that you are doing so under the law that applies, although it has not been passed and it has not entered into force. If that's how you're going to advise Vuk Jeremic, it's all about democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12803	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12804	Thank you very much. Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, this is my announcement on the basis of our Rules of Procedure and its Article 225. I am taking the opportunity to read part, or the 1st position of the member of our 46th Constitution, which says literally: “Freedom of opinion and expression is guaranteed, as well as freedom to speak, write, painting or otherwise seek, receive both wider notices and ideas. "We have a similar member. The reason for the announcement is that for the second time in Arangelovac, they failed to organize the simplest stands. And something that hit me especially yesterday is that we heard from this pay phone in this house that the freedomary Serbia has risen again to stop different opinions. This one-mindedness, when it was in Serbia, always led not only to a setback, but to the bottom of Europe, and much wider. So I ask you, if this is a campaign for the President of the Republic of Serbia, I am not a scary man, but I am expressing my concern that this style, meaning, one-minded and declaring everyone else incompetent, sick, drug addicts, will not do well, especially at this time when they are breaking spears around the territory and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12805	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12806	You know, fellow Radovanovic, who loses has the right to be angry; that's how it is for you in a democratic world, and that's when people decide what they want and what they don't want. So it's not about any media or political, I don't know what kind of lynch, how you wanted to present it. I have been answering various questions of journalists all day, because it is a fabricated lie by losers, and the losers are promoters of anti-Serbian hysteria, through this mentioned show, or, as you say, the "Sandstones" stands, and they tried on two occasions in one forest municipality, in Arangelovac, where we have a democratically elected president, radicals, and a very broad coalition whose main headquarters is the Serbian Radical Party and other political parties who have decided that this municipality is going through progress; there it is working, building, building up, fostering national historical values, it is cherished the principle of democracy. In a situation where 1,000 people come to visit one such as you say, a stands or an announced shoot, I'm sorry, and then why didn't these gentlemen, whom was a handful, stay on the subject? Because they didn't have the same-minded and conversators on the subject, and probably the conversators should be the ones to say -- we don't need Kosovo and Metohija, we Serbs need to be enslaved, we need to listen blindly to what they say, we, like these journalists or quasins, analysts, sell ourselves for a handful or I don't know how much money their mentors pay them, Soros and others. You can see the people won't. You have no reason to be angry. Here you go, so you invite them to the environment where you live, maybe the people will, but I doubt it, because long ago, citizens of Serbia, whether Serbs or representatives of a national minority, have recognized such destructive ideas and those individuals whose money alone, their personal money and their deep pocket are important, and not the interests of this people and this state. And the second, and the third and fifth times, I don't know how many times they'll come back, they'll always have conversators, but in the image of a people who are suffering and who aren't scarred, unlike those who have come to promote such a thing, a people who don't want such ideas and who don't want such ideas, but a different, better, more advanced, above all patriotic and patriotic Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12807	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. He's not here. Then the Messenger of the people Sasa Valjarevic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important proposal for a law on foreign affairs. In the afternoon debate, my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party spoke, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the parliamentary group, said a lot today about the law itself and in general about our diplomacy, which is currently in a very, very bad state. The collapse of our diplomacy began since 2000, after "the bulldozer of the revolution", when Mr. Goran Svilanovic was appointed foreign minister, who was keenly trying not to represent Serbian interests, but rather led anti-Serbian politics and blindly listened to his mentors who put him there. Given that he was set to such an important function, he should at that time, as it has been since 2000, have begun to promise to resolve the issue of both Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbia will enter certain European integrations and that the rapid path to the European Union will be. However, all we saw was that Goran Svilanovic managed to provide himself; when he was no longer a minister, he was appointed by the European Union to a certain post, which he performed until he was returned to the foreign ministry again, where he is now an adviser to Minister Jeremic. Honestly, I have a positive opinion that young people should be put into certain functions, but I do not believe that having such advisers like Goran Svilanovic can do anything good to this Serbia, since he has shown during his term of office how much he advocates Serbia, for Serbian interests and for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija and for resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues then. After that, he steps on the stage, I think, the biggest evil that could have happened, which is the appointment of Vuk Draskovic as foreign minister. His wife delegated to him who would be his ambassador, and then he set out on the party line, and even on the private line. So certain ambassadors were placed in very important countries, where we were to establish strong diplomatic relations to solve the problems we had in our country and within our own country. We had a case that he proposed to his personal physician and he was appointed ambassador; so we had some writers, who were embarrassing us in countries where they were ambassadors, because they misbehaved in such an important function. Each ambassador represents our country and should first be an educated diplomat and should have a basic code of conduct, as one representative of the state. After that comes our appointment of a new government. Mr. Jeremic has been in the post for about six months now and in the post as foreign minister. Mr Nikolic also said today -- whenever he represents Serbia's interests and interests in preserving Kosovo and Metohija, he will have the support of the Serbian Radical Party. However, it seems to me that in some of his performances he probably forgets himself and starts to represent only his parties' interests. There have been objections today to the text of this law. As for the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where SRS MPs issued an opinion, all the objections could be heard. One of these remarks was that there were no members in this law who clearly defined how the work of the Foreign Ministry was controlled, because the Assembly, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which we all voted, except for individual parties, controlled the work of the complete government and also the Foreign Ministry. In addition, there was a proposal to report to the National Assembly within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the first competent Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Assembly itself could control the work of the Foreign Ministry and what policy the foreign ministry is conducting. In addition, just to avoid what I was talking about and to no longer be appointed ambassadors who do not have adequate expertise, nor are they suitable as individuals to be on such important posts, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly should exercise control, i.e. to hold talks with the proposed candidates for ambassadors. However, we will see whether through the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party all of this we have talked about, that some parts of this law might be improved, so that we can, under this proposed law, correct what has not been accepted, and it has been proposed. There was a promise by the minister that the text of the law that was then under consideration would change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12809	Thank you. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Milena Stankovic, and counterpart Vladan Batic, and co-worker Vjerica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, reporting on the basis of Article 225. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I came here to inform you about what actually happened last night in Arangelovac and what the further course of the event was. I think it's important that we all know that. Thank you. The tribune was not held, but not because the citizens of Arangelovac prevented it, but because the maintenance of the stands was prevented by an organised group of hooligans, led by the president of the municipality of Topola, Mr. Dragan Jovanovic, otherwise New Serbia. However, they were supported by a small group of local radicals. What I would like to point out at this point is that this is a really big scandal, because the president of the municipality is actually an institution. The institutions exist to represent public interests, therefore the interests of citizens, and here Mr Dragan Jovanovic has come and is the gravest threat not only to the interests of citizens, but also to their human rights. For, in Article 46, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates freedom of opinion and expression and says: "The freedom of opinion and expression, as well as the freedom to speak, write, painting or otherwise seek, receive and broader notices and ideas. "These people really just wanted to see each other, talk and promote a book, spread those ideas they believe in, why not? They were prevented by one institution's representative, and it is indeed for every conviction. The atmosphere in Arangelovac was very bad yesterday, very tense. It was an atmosphere of lynch, very similar to that of the atmosphere that was created here yesterday in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia towards LDP MPs by some SRS MPs, who were warmly assisted by the president of the parliament of Mr Oliver Dulic. Next, what happened? The organizers of this stands have been exposed to the most terrifying threats. They and their families are very threatened, threatened with their babies. The threats sound like this - I know you, walking around the park, carrying a baby in a kangaroo, killing both you and the baby. I think that's something everyone here should worry about. But the atmosphere that existed in this House only further encourages people who act that way, who say they keep on talking. Certain, very important factors in this society, political parties, NGOs have condemned this event. It is very important, please, one more sentence, that the condemnation of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Boris Tadic, who was held on the stands, as at the time, of the liberation of Srebrenica, said it was freedom of speech. I'll remind you that there are no crimes committed in Srebrenica on that stands. What had to happen was a loud and public condemnation of this terrible event that happened in Arangelovac, and by the president of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12811	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 226, I request an explanation from the Minister of Culture and from the President of the Republic for last night's event in Arangelovac. I look at all these things phenomenally and principledly. So 17 years ago there was an end to the idea of the world of Savi. I'm afraid history is repeating itself. That's when something started that ended badly. I'm afraid something started last night that's gonna end badly. So, it doesn't matter at all, as far as the Sandman show is concerned, I've never been on that show in my life, a dozen times the negative comments were addressed to my address, but I'm trying to defend the principle. If in Serbia in the 21st century there is a group of people who have come to make their views known in a tribune, then it is not an attempt by their lynching, but rather a link over the public word, over the education, over the culture, over the right to the opposite opinion. Indeed, from day to day, as the early 1990s, Serbia becomes a gulag of public words, a media ghetto, a concentration camp of a different cultural model, a dungeon of the opposite opinion. That way we can't go forward. It always ends badly. Let's learn some lessons from history. They're not worth epics, myths, legends. Here every day we have barbecues, sausages, bacons, cabbages and all kinds of other miserys. Let's go a little bit in the opposite direction, without the constant potential of myths, legends. Let's leave history to the historians. Let's cut the geese. Those headed by the state are more blind than the blind pirate Filip Višnic. Since the once-beautiful event in Guca, they have made the most primitive fair and then declared it a national brand, where the main artisans with the image of the Legion and Ratko Mladic. That is why I call on the Minister of Culture and Boris Tadic to raise their voice, because it is dangerous to prevent the right to the opposite opinion and the public word. This ended in wars in Serbia, and after the wars of capitulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12813	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure is the Messenger of the People, Verica Radet, and then the Messenger of the people Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis of my report is Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges government members to participate in the work of parliament. This now refers specifically to Mr Vuk Jeremic, who was present during the afternoon session, showed interest in what the MPs are saying from this place, participated in the debate. Here, it's been 45 minutes for the afternoon part of the session, and the minister's not here yet. You, Mr. Chairman, were obliged to interrupt the session until he showed up. It is unacceptable for us to suffer daily the negative relationship between the assembly majority and ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia towards parliament. It is obvious that they are, in fact, not working and that the congregation majority is almost not involved in the work. Some minister who comes, comes here to give a lecture to the MPs. The one who just showed respect for the National Assembly and realized where it came after the break forgot. Parliament's president acts as if Serbian citizens have forgotten, let's say, that yesterday and a half morning we were late with the beginning of the session because the assembly majority didn't actually have a majority. I think it is at least immoral that because the assembly majority cannot be organized and cannot provide the required number of MPs to start working, that, in the follow-up, when they finally get together, we are working until 22 hours yesterday, by 20 o'clock, tomorrow, who knows when. It is no longer known what is the working day of this Parliament, or when it ends, and most importantly, it is not known when it begins. It must begin, and in order to begin, a certain number of Members of Parliament are required to be provided, as the Assembly so-called. The majority, or ruling coalition, are increasingly not in a position. Mr. Jeremiah, I called to warn you because you didn't come here after your break. I said in the morning part you showed interest in working under this bill. You responded to some of the comments of the MPs. I expect you to continue in the afternoon. I'm warning you, you were 50 minutes late.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12815	Thank you. The minister is present now. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, question for Minister Jocic. I got some information and I want him to check it out. Dragoljub Markovic, "Krmivo Product", Ceda Jovanovic, Ljubisa Buha Čume began operations in the east after 5 October 2000 (Turkey, Syria, Pakistan and Afghanistan) with chemicals that are part of heroin and synthetic drugs. It's about, I don't even know how to read about the anhydride of vinegar and BNK. The supply canals were from the Netherlands, and the whole business had already been worked out, because the Chumes did so before the government changed. According to available data, about 42 tanks of these chemicals were made. Ceda Jovanovic designed to invest millions of capital in legal flows and wash through the company "Difens Road". From such acquired capital, Ceda Jovanovic privatised the firm "Madera", which has 27 clubs throughout Belgrade, on behalf of his father-in-law, Mijat Savic. As director of Differents Road Chad, he proposed to Sasha Alex, who now lives in the United States. The asphalting machines were purchased from that capital, and the cover was another firm, which allegedly took them through the Commercial Bank. I'm asking the minister to check this out. I just can't believe it, but I got, as a member of the Security Committee, this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12817	Thank you. Advertising of Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12818	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 225. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you for an explanation, and it concerns something that has recently been a major part of foreign policy, negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. I am interested in who is the creator, at the very least astounding, of the proposal that Kosovo and Metohija's status be settled in Hong Kong, the island and in the last few days in southern Tyrol, Catalonia or Baska. I think those comparisons, at the very least, are not only inadequate, but completely illogical. The Chinese live in Hong Kong and China. There's been a deal about Hong Kong, and no one here can make a deal. Hong Kong is a trade, financial and maritime metropolis, Kosovo is one of Europe's most underdeveloped parts. Historical circumstances are completely reversed, etc. So who is the creator of such ideas, which no one in the international community seriously wanted to comment on? Furthermore, in foreign policy, in diplomacy, when it comes to Kosovo's fate, who gave Vladimir Putin general power to protect Serbia's interests. Let's see the experience of the past, when she protected them. You remember those archival footage of RTS, NATO intervention, the Russian overseas fleet left the Black Sea. Is he still traveling? She never made it. Some here cheer the Kremlin clock. This is where the Russian anthem sits, this is where Russia is celebrated, this is where Serbia is wanted to be the province of Russia, and then within that province of Kosovo, I guess, autonomy. So here it is said that Russia will preserve our cradle. Why isn't he himself? Well, Kiev was the capital of Tsar Russia. There are some here, when it comes to foreign policy and diplomacy, as I said earlier, blinded more than Filip Višnic. This is where you run that policy from Broz time - give the right blinker and turn left. Looks like your car has even more blinkers, so it's headed for Brussels, and it's heading for Kiev, so it's going to Washington, and it's going to the Kremlin or Moscow. It's an inconsistencies, inconsistencies, in-laws foreign policy. This is where Vuk Draskovic is condemned for everything. That agreement he signed, and then ratified by the state, is the only real range of foreign policy in the last few years. This is where people are criticised, and it is forgotten, by those who are calling for history, that Ducic, Rakic, Shantic, were Montenegrin ambassadors to Serbia. Then both Velic and Dusan Kovacevic and Grujica Spasojevic are quite reperientative ambassadors in today's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12819	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12820	This is not according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a regular discussion regarding the bill. In the beginning, I must inform the minister, if you were advised by this Gašo Knezevic, a dead end, this has nothing to do with it. He has a tendency to be deluded. All the regulations that he, Lilić, Hiber, Vodalić and others brought here, wrote, were creators, these laws were absolutely inapplicable. They're guys of destruction. He shut down the Serbian school in Moscow. And what he put out in Serbia, not to tell you. He applied draft laws that didn't even pass and said "me or him." That "me" is him, and he's the law. Everything beyond that doesn't exist. If he advised you, then I totally understand why this is a law of law. However, I am informing Vojislav Kostunica, he has done well to pack this in one form that means nothing. If you look at what is written in Article 1. The bill, then you'll see that what's the content of the law doesn't match the subject, doesn't match the subject of the law. In Article 1, you wrote that the interrelationships between state authorities in the conduct of foreign policy, but no relationship was governed by this law. There is only one stereotype formulation or poor copying of something that exists in the Constitution, that foreign policy is run by the government, but you have forgotten one distinction between who represents the state and who runs the policy. Where it's supposed to be arranged, you didn't want to fix it. Why? Because there are two sizes. He who represents it also represents, and for him to represent and represent it must have the foreign minister there at hand, and the government currently, in this assembly and composition, knows that there are parcels, that there are borders as far as and from where he can't. None of these relationships are governed by this law. You've arranged something in the area of the status of a person who works in a certain calling at the Foreign Ministry, but there are almost international standards, and it's a completely irrelevant part of this law, but it's a good thing it exists. What's essential, it's not there. We don't know what communications are like in foreign policy management, because abroad, we can be represented by the MIP, but we can be represented by anyone else. So we have a war crimes prosecutor who sits with his BiH and Croatian buddies, makes an agreement; under the agreement, information is exchanged, arrests, detentions, hearings are made under the agreement. The National Assembly did not ratify it here or, to be precise, did not confirm the agreement, and it seems to me that prosecutors are not even authorized to represent and represent the state abroad, in a way that concludes agreements and thus creates rights and obligations for the Republic of Serbia. I know, you're powerless, there's much stronger Natasa Kandic. When she says it, it's the law. Am I wrong? She doesn't even see you. Why are you giving yourself any meaning? She has little Boris Tadic, and you think you're some size for her. Now I understand, all the resistance is in the DS, and those who've been breaking into Jugopetrol and those who've been keeping them company. It's lost your revolutionaryism, for the truth, for justice, for the idea. This law brings nothing, neither good nor bad, because it cannot be applied. What is the relationship between the competent authorities is contained in two members and described in the words: co-operation and coordination. In doing so, you forgot to install at least one chapter that should define that parts of the Ministry working abroad, embassies and consular representations of our country are authorized to apply our regulations in those areas where there is the jurisdiction of another ministry, and that it is about the transfer of administrative affairs that apply our bodies in that foreign territory. That's what you should have worked out, that not every piece of shit from any ministry can go abroad and represent our country. He can't. Alpha and omega must be MIP. By the logic of the matter, the foreign minister is another government man. The minister is the largest organ in the country. The government is not the largest organ. He's a minister, like an individual. The first is that we call the prime minister and he should have some ministry, but he's always the second foreign minister. Now you see how we are presented with another man abroad. Now we're going to have fun here with some solutions, whether a woman has a right while her husband works abroad, etc. These three or four members are important to us, and you can't see anything from them. Furthermore, just to remind you, without the intention of criticizing anyone, that's what God criticized, there's nothing more to talk about, when Socrates, called Svileni, he banned those common communications - the dispatches, etc., but she gave his Maya a blast, so all the embassies to regular colleges communicated with the Ministry. Let me remind you, there was a security guard named Goran Petrovic. I don't know who's running our foreign ministry, but according to what's done there, what's done, there's a lot of nepotism, both in the family and in the party, it's obvious that there's a bit of an entanglement there, which is a lot of jag, which is crowded to come. We also have two or three candidates, two ladies who are seriously pointing out their candidacy to get involved in diplomacy, because they've been over this a long time. A lot of things that have to be solved aren't solved. Let me remind you of one thing. Regardless of what we Rules of Procedure define the legislative process, I think there must have been several provisions in this law that the National Assembly must be involved from the first day some negotiations begin. Whether there are bilateral relations, some international agreement with a foreign state, the National Assembly must be involved, so as not to come before the final act. We have been reluctant to discuss here for the past few years, and you have reluctantly voted for some agreements that were so obviously bad for Serbia, but you said -- we have to vote because someone signed it, if the Assembly doesn't ratify it, then the state gets embarrassed. In order for the state not to be confused, parliament, as the highest authority, must be in the process of negotiations from the first day of the talks, has been informed that we are seeing what the strategy is, which is the platform with which you are going abroad. As for Hong Kong, it turns out Batic is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12821	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12822	Ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy should be dealt with by the highest authorities of the legislative and executive authority. Political antagonism is the most expressed on this international agenda, where, in fact, that foreign policy sometimes needs to play the most important game, which is the game that is most important sometimes for the state. Today, if we look, in this world of polarization where a new world order is created... The big forces have been since 1918, then the President of the United States of America Wilson tried to introduce some kind of democratisation around the world, but because of the isolation of the then state, it failed, it failed. The second time they tried when Truman's plan also tried to apply that democratisation, but he failed because of the size of the Soviet Union. Here, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, it has worked for the people who rule America today, and that is Bush and Clinton. They were able to create or create this new world order precisely because of the abolition, the destruction, and the balance, that is, the collapse of the Soviet Union. But sometimes a man has to ask himself, a simple citizen who... Since this Democratic Party came to power, they seem to be using Serbian citizens for single use; then when they need to come to power they try to get close to them and promise them everything and everything, and after that, when they sit in the saddle, they no longer know anyone. Then they just work for themselves and for their political party. We can already see, ever since Mr. Jeremic came to the helm of foreign policy... Few of us know that in 2003 he was an adviser to the defence minister, and you know who was the minister at the time - Davinic, and what malfeasances were happening in the military. So he could still, as a counselor, find out what was going on. We now see how his political maneuver is trying to convince us here or to act as a man who is a great patriot, who thinks of the state of Serbia, thinks of the most important issue, because it is in this negotiating body for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. But I ask the question to Mr. Minister, how and how do they act in that body if they do not have the authority given to them by this congregation. She has allowed them to negotiate and fight a battle for Kosovo and Metohija, not to seek and find certain methods that they recommend to people from the Contact Group. Furthermore, I would like to ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, will the current minister leave for the morning when he is invited by the President of the United States, as former Minister Vuk Draskovic left, without the approval of the then parliament, the Federal Assembly, or should the Prime Minister now have the authority of the republican parliament? It is also very important that when it comes to deciding on any vital issue related to the external plan, the current minister should not, without the approval of the republic's parliament, act or engage in the realisation of the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, what is most important is to know that Kosovo and the Metohija is the cradle of Serbia, both life and spiritual, and there must not be any deviation, but only - Kosovo and Metohija do not give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12823	MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12824	I really had the intention of proposing to the Minister that the Government give the amendment and improve that law, however, I see that the minister has come out and now I don't know the purpose of it. I will only talk about where there are no amendments, because we will also talk about the Committee on Amendments, and here I would like to appeal to the President of the Committee and the Minister to try together to find amendments and to fix this law. For example, Article 5 of point 19; we have already shown on the Committee that it is the opposite of the Constitution, because the Constitution requires that the Ministry protects human and procedural rights, as well as the interests of its citizens abroad. It has to be particularly emphasized. It can't be in co-operation with the minister of diaspora. That's absurd. Then point 20 - conducts a vote in co-operation with the Ministry of Diaspora, etc. The ministry's greatest obligation in this regard is to protect the interests of Serbian citizens and their human and procedural rights. It has to be emphasized, it can't be different. I would also advise the minister, if he accepts it, to find a solution to that cultural-informative centre, because he cannot only be under the authority of the Foreign Ministry. There's got to be an ingenuity here. Administrative intelligence must be under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but cultural and informative cannot, there is diplomatic practice. The Ministry of Culture and Information appoints the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the attaché or adviser who will do those tasks. Then communication goes the following way: he responds, his minister is an ambassador, who corresponds to the ambassador of foreign affairs. We can't kidnap one area, as an area of culture, to force the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There must be such co-operation as diplomatic practice knows. Mr. Minister, Article 17, why do you need a special envoy? You don't have the right to do that. You have the right, within your ministry, to send a Secretary of State or your advisor as your envoy, with your personal message, but you cannot have a special envoy. That right only has the President of the Republic, who can choose anyone, or a personal or special envoy. Even the Prime Minister has no right to do so, but has the right to send his envoy out of the order of ministers and state advisers. It is understood here that anyone outside the Ministry can be your special envoy, but that category in diplomatic practice exists only for the President of the Republic or the Government, depending on the system. With us, we started mixing each other, the Republic Parliamentary, both have but the Prime Minister can't do any. If you mean so-called. silent diplomacy, it's a completely different category, which should not be dealt with publicly but to get results and then can be made public through institutions. You know, these institutions can be any two who have influence somewhere, send them somewhere, make arrangements, and then on that basis they can be an envoy of a president or a category that exists. I don't mean you personally, but every minister can make a mess tomorrow, or his wife, or his brother, because he has legal conditions, and it doesn't exist, because you have your advisors, state secretary and assistants. Don't think it's personal to you, but it can't be enough authority to have a minister, to prescribe anything out there without any legal grounds. Everywhere the minister prescribes, it must be added on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure must determine how it is done, and not the Minister voluntarily, then in every situation we have another propi; it must be determined, it cannot be arbitrary. I think they're the basics of democracy. You have an article 51, which is linked to article 64... Minister, when it comes to Article 51, we have accepted that there should be compensation for health insurance expenses, but you want to apply it in a year, which is inhumane. That's been wrong so far, and now you're continuing this practice, if it's not in the current budget, you're asking the budget reserve, because the law has to go into effect completely, not in part. You just cheer up those people who work, they'll have health care, and then they say, well, they can't now, in a year. That's not right, because the state budget always has a reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12825	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12826	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you for a large number of extremely constructive proposals, amendments and remarks that I have heard today. I can say that I agree with most of the amendments proposed today and will be recommended to the government by the Foreign Ministry that these amendments be accepted. They refer to certain technical details of this law. I really think that they are a constructive contribution to improving the text of this law, which I have already had the opportunity to say today that it has value, i.e. I think it is important to establish regulation in the creation and implementation of our foreign policy in these extremely complex geostrategic circumstances and the external political challenges our country faces today. I would like to respond to the remarks of MP Batic, regarding Hong Kong. I understand that Mr. Batic had the same point of view as Mr. Krasic, regarding the Hong Kong issue. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the examples of Hong Kong, the Holland Islands and some of the other essential autonomys that exist in the world have been used by the negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia to pull functional comparative parallels between the proposal offered by the negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia. This is a proposal based on essential autonomy, a proposal that has received almost absolute support in this House, so we are talking about a solid, almost absolute majority in this House. During the negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, the argument of the Pristina side and the argument of some international factors in these negotiations was that essential autonomy does not work anywhere but on paper, that our proposal for essential autonomy is not realistic, that it cannot live and that as such represents, in itself, the obstruction of this negotiating process. Our argument was - this is not true; essential autonomy exists, essential autonomy is a partnership between the queen and the specially regulated territory that functions under the common sovereign roof, i.e. with the full preservation of territorial integrity and the integrity of the queen. In this case it is the queen of Serbia, in the case of Hong Kong it is the People's Republic of China, in the case of the Oland Islands it is the Republic of Finland. We pulled the comparative parallels by comparing the models that and how they function in practice, no moment giving up, no moment turning from the direction of the clearly defined platform that was adopted in this home. Therefore, Mr Batic, Mr Krasic, this Hong Kong model is not presented as a proposal from the Republic of Serbia. There is only one proposal from the Republic of Serbia and this is a proposal of essential autonomy, which you voted for, which you, Mr Batic, and you, Mr Krasic, voted in one of the calls. Therefore, our proposal for the future status of Kosovo and Metohija is essential autonomy, we do not give up on this proposal. The moment negotiations under the leadership of the "troika" are concluded, we are moving to the United Nations, or to the Security Council, and there we will fight for a continuation of negotiations that will lead to a compromise solution that will be such that it will not raise questions at any time as to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. I also need to look at some questions about the Foreign Ministry, whether there's a lot of nepotism. I don't think that's the case, and I don't think he's here, and if he's ever in some of the former foreign affairs department's former constitutions, there's something like that, I don't think there's room for that right now. I'd have to look back on one of Mr. Arsic's personal findings. I was not a counsellor at the defence ministry during Minister Davinic, I was an adviser at the defence ministry exclusively during Minister Boris Tadic. Along with Boris Tadic, I left the ministry. You probably made that finding with a slip. I never had the opportunity to advise Mr Davinic as defence minister for Serbia-Montenegro. Once again, I want to thank you for all these remarks. The large number of remarks I've heard today are really extremely constructive and we're going to try to consider most of them, because they really do have, I'd say, essential content and a positive character. I think that a large number of them could really enrich the text of this law, so that this law can look better, can provide a good, solid basis for regulation of our foreign policy, implementation into the work of our foreign policy, as well as the essential reforms of our diplomatic service. I hope that the result will be that after the adoption of this law, I hope that you will help us and that we will pass this law very quickly. I think the results will be visible very quickly. I think even so far, in these difficult circumstances until the end of the unreformed diplomatic service, until the end of the unregulated foreign ministry, the results have been such that they are not for underestimation. I think the result of Serbian diplomacy, if nothing, then for at least the last six months, was such that the thing moved from one general, global view that Ahtisaari's plan would be applied and that supervised independence of Kosovo and Metohija would become a reality that we still came into one situation when it was no longer so obvious. Of course, I don't want to underestimate any principled position of international factors here. Mr Batic was talking about Russia's principled position. I want to say here that the position of the Russian Federation in this whole Kosovo process, namely negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, has been extremely firm, principled, in accordance with international law and with international law standards, and we highly appreciate the principled attitude of the Russian Federation. However, Serbia's position in these negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija has not always coincided with Russia's position, and I must say so. Serbia's position from the beginning was that there was no talk of a violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I am extremely pleased that the position of the Russian Federation in the last year or two has been aroused to that level that it has indeed been in principle behind this view of the international order, at the UN Charter, at Resolution 1244, and it has indeed been principled and in accordance with international law. We appreciate it very much. We are where we are, again the discussion on Kosovo has been transferred to the UN, to the Security Council, and I have been traveling there for as long as an hour and a half. So I'm going to ask you to understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to excuse me for really having to go on the road, and I hope you accept what I'm about to tell you. I have to go on a trip to New York, and my secretary of state, Ambassador Mr. Bogojevic, will replace me and I hope you won't mind, but this is an extremely delicate moment. I think at this point we really need to make every effort to preserve state unity, maintain a common policy on Kosovo and Metohija. Over the next few weeks and months, we'll be under dramatic pressure from all over the world. We have one principled and firm position on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, on the matter of the European future and for this solid and principled policy I seek your support, because by adopting this and this law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, more efficiently, more dynamic, more economic, more modern, more pragmatic implementation into the work of state foreign policy that will preserve the territorial integrity of our country, which will preserve Serbia on the path of European integration, which will preserve the entire Western Balkans on the road to strengthening peace, stability and prosperity. For this we need a modern diplomatic service, for this we need a 21st century diplomatic apparatus, for this we need the structure of the external affairs of the Republic of Serbia, which is in line with the challenges of the 21st century, in line with the modern norms of diplomacy, which are creatively, flexible, which is able to deal with the problems which, unfortunately, this country faces at the beginning of the 21st century, and therefore makes really one minority of nations, countries in Europe. Why we came here today, why we are in this position, which is why today we are facing challenges that no other country or almost any other country, at least not on the European continent, is confrontational, I don't think it's time or moment to talk about it. We're in an extremely difficult situation. Let's go from consensus, find ourselves in an extremely difficult situation, and because we are in a difficult situation, we need energetic, efficient, modern measures, and we need to form, define, channel relations with the international community, the East, the Western, multilateral organisations that will enable us to cope under such difficult circumstances with national challenges, with the challenges of our territorial integrity, our sovereignty, with the challenges of our integration with the region and with the continent, and to enable us to provide a prosperous life for all our citizens, for all our citizens in the province of Kosovo, for our citizens in Serbia and for all the citizens of the Western Balkans. For that we need a modern view in advance, a modern diplomatic service. This law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allows for the formation of such a modern diplomatic service. Thank you for your remarks. One significant number of these remarks is and how meaningful, we'll include them, I'll suggest that they be accepted. I think most will be accepted. Thank you for that, thank you for your constructiveity, for your criticism, I really listened to them very carefully. I'm going to try to include as many as possible, and I'm asking you to excuse me, I really respect this home, I respect all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but I have to travel to the Security Council. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12827	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic. Mr. Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was a little short for me to cry in front of the minister's gratitude. Mr. Minister, just for a little while, some observations about what you've been saying about Kosovo and Metohija, that is, the negotiating team and what you've been trying to do, as an attempt or a promise, if this law is passed, that some things related to diplomacy will be improved. First, what is most important, and what is related to Kosovo and Metohija, our negotiating team and you as foreign minister had a clear restriction and determination in which direction you were going, and these are resolutions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and there are no dilemmas on this issue. I can even understand that you're trying to get into a situation where for our country you find the most favourable solution you've been looking for some exits by proposing certain models like Hong Kong, the Icelandic Islands, etc., believing maybe... But if that was the reason, then it's a mistake and it says that you had no idea what kind of negotiators and what intentions you were meeting, although we, if you remember, said in Strasbourg that what we could do was very simple. We can only not agree to the solution that Americans and the EU are trying to impose in every way possible. You were starting to assume that possibly through continuous innovation or initiative you would get some advantages in this negotiation process. However, they dug into the initial positions, which were absolutely the best for them, which is Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Practically, they put you in a position... The fact that you've been suggesting something around here, they've been bringing you back all along -- whether you accept Marty Ahtisaari's plan or not. You know the basic thing now is whether Marty Ahtisaari's plan, as a UN representative, or secretary general, will be imposed within the framework of the UN, or the Security Council. What's good for us is Russia's principled attitude and there's no chance of that changing. It's our only chance. This second, that no state body should ever, at any cost, accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Now we get to the second one, day D. What are we going to do about that moment if some institution in Kosovo and Metohija declares independence, what are we going to do first in that case, and then if some countries do it? According to some information, the government is preparing certain measures. We'll see what those measures are, what they mean. Now only briefly related to the Foreign Ministry. Mr. Jeremic, I cannot in advance doubt that you will try to bring the Foreign Ministry into a position that can function in a way that would be useful to the state, because I know what kind of problem you are facing. The seven-year problem was caused, firstly, by setting up Goran Svilanovic, an open traitor to Serbia, who is now a member of this crisis group and who openly advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence, as his party advocated, and that is the Civil League. You have one representative of the Civil League in your ministry. The second thing, which was not destroyed by Goran Svilanovic, was further destroyed by Vuk Draskovic. Another man in the ministry, Vojin Dimitrijevic, has been destroying the foreign ministry for seven years; he also places the naked traitors in ambassadorial places and abroad. That's why we're sure, whatever the law is, that you can hardly deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12829	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slobodan Maras, MP Vidoje Jovanovic. Then the replica, MP Zoran Krasic. Since the minister must go, if you agree, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over the replica, but to give the word to Mr Krasic, while the minister is there. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12830	Since it's a replica, then it can be personal. Mr. Jeremiah, you're just one word that I finally misread, and that was the word "look." Now let me explain to you what in my interpretation of what Mr Batic said meant "look". It seems he was right to wonder what similarity you found between Kosovo and Metohija and Hong Kong. I knew you'd run into it. Mr. Batic just forgot one thing to tell you. There's only one resemblance: and one and the other locations are the drug empire. No other similarity exists. Historically, you took the wrong example. To be an example of essential autonomy, that's impossible. You've taken all the wrong examples, calculating that you have, as you say, an active role, creating a positive atmosphere, etc. Do not deviate from essential autonomy. It was cemented by Resolution 1244. There's no stronger argument. Go over all that crap from the previous government, regionalization, cantonization, etc. One more thing, listen to me. The diplomats are stingy in words, and they can't talk much, but always a diplomat when he says something he takes care of the correct use of the term. You just said there's some resemblance, because China is the queen and Serbia is the queen. That's not true. If it's a queen, something's the opposite of diaspora. It is not for us Kosovo and the Metohija diaspora. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. No nuts, no tributaries, no nothing. That's one whole, you're a physicist, one through one. Take care of it. Don't use those words to show what your strategic position is. Your strategic position minus ten. It's no good. You in the negotiations need to represent the unitary state, so in negotiations to come to essential autonomy and to give in a little bit. I've been running around Europe for years to find that Badenter, they're moving him everywhere, and in France I was on purpose in June of the month counting he's a senator, so we're going to meet him there and explain to him a little bit about his report that he shared the former SFRY according to colonial principles. But he's gone, running away, as soon as he hears that a Serb delegation has arrived, he doesn't come to Paris for days. I'm chasing some more. Act like it. Smite them with what you say firmly, not softly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12831	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go, Mr. Marash. After him, MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12832	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must apologize to all of you for going a little astray from this subject, but I want to say some things for the public. We have just received a letter from the secretary of the Assembly informing us that the proposal has arrived from the government, and was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, that the 2008 budget law is being considered by an emergency procedure. Mr. Dulic, president of the assembly, said it was more favourable for MPs because we can submit amendments until the very day of the meeting. However, the problem is that the law on the budgetary system has been passed to the Assembly with 15 days of delay and the Law on the Budgetary System has been broken, that is, Article 14. Also, a member of the Budgetary System Act has been broken to the extent that the budget has to be adopted, which is November 30th. It's December 5th tomorrow. I would just like to say for the public that responsibility for what the budget will be later, contrary to the members of the law that regulate it, is borne by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has already repeatedly not sent laws in time and is then trying through certain ministers to create a picture in the public that MPs do not do their job in the way it is intended, that because of us they are late. We fully understand the ruling coalition's intention to pass the first laws necessary to call presidential elections and we have no problem with that. We have a problem with the budget system law, that is, being late. We have a problem with the letter we received from Mr Djelic asking that in every way and the sooner we adopt this proposal, so as not to cause harmful consequences for the work of the state authorities and organisations. Any adverse consequences that arises because the budget is possible to be adopted later than anticipated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I had to say that for the public, and we are certainly looking forward to discussing the budget, because we have a lot of objections to this budget, and when it starts on Monday, we will make all our remarks and suggestions to fix that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12833	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. I'm just asking you to name a member of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't mean to interrupt you, Mr. Marash. (Free Marash, from place: 138.) 138. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12834	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'm really sorry that this may not be a topic, but it's a very important question that doesn't tolerate a delay. Based on information from representatives of municipalities from Zlatiborski and Mačvanski County and other centres, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia have received, and I have information that other MPs from the post have been invited and asked by trade unions and workers in the authorities of the state administration to ask the matter of urgent resolution of the government's relationship with the authorities in terms of wages and the agreement with the educators. The fact is that at this point, we have an interruption of the talks between the government and the unions in the authorities of the administration, the judiciary, social organisations and education, which is a problem because we still have an interruption of work in the one-hour period in the authorities of the administration, and education works for a short period of 30 minutes. They asked us, here, to be called by MPs from Zaječac - Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Miletić Mihajlović from Petrovac to Mlava, Bojan Dimitrijevic from Raska, called me from Zlatibor County, etc., 85% of municipalities support the view that salaries in the authorities of the administration are small; 15% do not, for reasons these municipalities probably do not apply the existing law, or regulation. I will eventually ask the government and the resolution ministries what they will do in the work. It is true that there has been a break in dialogue, that the salaries in state authorities range from 12,000 to 22,000 and that the new draft budget law for 2008 envisions an increase of only 10% for the 12 salaries provided for by workers in the bodies of the administration. Given the amount of pay they now have, it's extremely small, and it's hard to keep the staff in the authorities of the administration. I would like to inform you that the union's demands were: social dialogue, increased earnings and signing a collective contract. The government at this point does not want to sign a collective contract, delaying this signing until December 31st. We hear the budget will be considered by emergency procedure. If an article 24 is adopted, with a 10% increase, there's nothing to it. No dialogue, no deal. Citizens will have problems when it comes to the work of state authorities, a December 10th strike is possible, education will work with 30 minutes and damages have children. I ask concrete questions: what the government will do, whether to sign a collective agreement before 10 before the strike, whether to sign a collective agreement with the authorities of local self-government before the budget is passed, so that we can change Article 24 instead of 10% of the increase to be a higher percentage, and whether to establish a dialogue and a deal with educators to avoid this agony as far as the hours are short, because there are children suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12835	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zorica Stevanović, and then by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's principle debate on the proposal for a law on foreign affairs, there were some, in my opinion, strangely, not to say worrying discussions. It has been said that with this law Serbia is entering a serious transition. Does this mean that so far we have been in some unserious transition or that we have not been in transition at all and that the laws that have been passed so far have been inconclusive, and that I am specifically referring to the Law on the President, the Law on the Choice of the President and the other laws that we have passed? Serbian radicals, knowing that you are in every respect inconclusive, are investing amendments that would regulate the laws, would prevent you from abuse of the law and prevent the laws from answering only to you, and would allow the laws to fit all Serbian citizens. It is even said that in the ministry mentioned, people work under a contract of action. I'm interested in whether Mr. Jeremic was accepted under the contract? Who's signing his work contract and what time? If we weren't to discuss all the discussions right now, I'd like to look back on the agenda. One of the foreign affairs ministry's tasks, as foreseen by the Foreign Affairs Act, is contained in section 2) of the article of the 5th law. I would now quote one part: "protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and legal persons abroad". I ask the question, does our foreign ministry, the foreign minister, our country's ambassadors, as well as the head of a permanent diplomatic mission protect the interests of Professor Vojislav Seselj in front of an illegal UN tribunal? Of course you all know the answer to this question - it doesn't protect you. Why is it so, everyone also knows, since from the president of Serbia, officials at the foreign ministry, foreign minister, to ambassadors and embassy officials all protect only the interests of their party, which has decided to appoint them to those functions. See, for example, the Croatian Government and its foreign ministry – proven villains, murderers and Ustashas provide all legal and financial assistance. America, for example, is able to fight if their government, as well as public opinion, considers that in a foreign country the rights of its citizens are at stake. Only the state of Serbia will be silent when Nazi methods are applied over Serbian patriots in the Hague casamat. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is not the only innocent indictee in The Hague, there are others, and their rights are not protected either. So, what can be solved by law and what activities can the Foreign Ministry do for Serbia while this political set is in power? Do you remember who in the former joint state of Serbia-Montenegro was the foreign minister, which we had ambassadors and consuls? I guess the citizens of Serbia know who we are and now represents us in the world and who our foreign minister is. However, he has one additional qualification -- he best deleted the board at a school where Democratic Party President Boris Tadic, unfortunately, taught the current president. It is fortunate that soon after the presidential elections won by Tomislav Nikolic, they will be former president and former minister. I believe that honest citizens of Serbia are sick of seeing smiles on Tadic, Kostunica and Jeremic's face, while white-world powers threaten to take away much of Serbia's territory. A villain such as Carla del Ponte is undoubtedly a distinguished guest and partner of our government, the president, seems particularly foreign minister. Time and Serbia seem to be changing much faster. Serbia needs many capable and honest people, a fairer government, a foreign minister who will enjoy the world's reputation. But Serbia needs first and foremost a new president of the Republic who will be a man who truly expresses the unity of the Republic of Serbia and represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad and follows the foreign policy established by the radical government. That man, of course, is Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12837	Thank you. The People's MP Jadranko Vukovic has the word, followed by the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and then the People's MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is noticeable that the ministers, as well as Mr Jeremic, do not care in their international statements about the country's established policy, nor about the mood of the people and its representatives in parliament, but rather about the party policy, as Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac showed yesterday. You were witnesses yesterday when at the end of the debate on the laws of the army and Mr. Sutanovac's defense for this pay phone said, I can't quote it - you were afraid of our victory. It's not like any minister, not even him. Ministers must report to parliament on the situation in the area for which they are responsible, not on a political basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, isn't our country's policy of co-operation with the great Russia, in every way? Why did Mr. Minister (not here, his colleagues will tell him) not to congratulate his fellow Moscow counterpart on winning Putin's party in the Russian parliamentary elections, and you know that our foreign policy and all the Serbian government ministers are running around Putin and Russia when you need something? I ask you why you falsely misinformed Serbian citizens that Mr Putin will support Boris Tadic in Serbia's presidential election? Don't you understand that Putin and the Russian leadership are currently supporting you who are in power because of you, but because of the Serbian people and Serbia. They can't support you, because you're pushing for everything that's against them, such as NATO, the deployment of missile systems around Russia, the deployment of our army for training under American intelligence. On the other hand, it is especially not your honor to insult Russia very often. We were also here to witness, unfortunately, a statement by representatives and some opposition parties that they were disturbed by the Russian anthem, which is why yesterday during the debate on military and defence laws, they had to respond to my colleagues, headed by Mr. Todorovic, and to fence against such statements on behalf of the SRS. In the end, I would like to refer to the representatives of the Ministry one question I have addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. You are aware that previous ministers, Mr Draskovic and Mr Davinic, have abolished military personnel and members of military missions, status as holders of diplomatic passports. Right? The Vienna Convention recognises their diplomatic status. You remember that as a consequence of this decision... In fact, you remember the case of Colonel Brankovic, who was arrested in Bulgaria, so the Bulgarian court dealt with it in a positive way. According to our knowledge, under pressure and suggestions from the President of the European Community. Why am I saying this? Because Mr. Draskovic and Mr. Davinic probably suspended it on purpose, so that military officials could be arrested abroad without breach of the Vienna Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12839	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. The Serbian Radical Party has 31 minutes left. The next speaker is MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12840	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are talking about a draft law on foreign affairs. For this proposal, the minister himself said he was merely a technical law. Our question is, and we ask the minister all day -- which law regulates the essence of the foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia? What is really regulated in this law is only a technical part of jurisdiction, advisory bodies, protection of interest, honorable consuls, special provisions on labour relations in the ministry; it was not really the law we expected. It is true that the National Assembly is obliged to pass this law, or law, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, but we did not expect such a final text to be delivered to the MPs. As the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said, we unfortunately did not have time to submit amendments to all those members we have objections to, because we received the bill, or four draft laws, with the possibility of only 24 hours to submit amendments to all four laws. Yet we have submitted amendments to several members. We thought it was necessary for the President of the Republic to be involved through this law in foreign affairs. We predicted that the government edits the foreign policy it implements, it says here - the ministry, and we said - and the President of the Republic. Because, according to the constitution, the President of the Republic of Serbia expresses the unity of the Republic of Serbia and represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad, it must follow the foreign policy established by the government. In a few more members, we also had the same amendment. Today we do not speak individually of the members of the law, because the minister has announced to us that he has adopted five or six of our amendments, but we do not know what these amendments are, so we will leave that part of the debate on the law in particular. The minister here said a very interesting sentence. He said that after the change in 2000, very vague and undefined relations were found in the country when it comes to foreign policy. That's what the DOS minister said. I remind you, in 2000, the DOS came to power after the Friday revolution, came to the SRJ, so the DOS destroyed that state, so it created a quasi-state called the Serbia-Montenegro community, and contributed significantly to the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic to break down that state as well; finally, we have Serbia within the borders where we now have it. We ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the president of the state to remain within those borders, given that there is a serious danger that has prevailed over the part of our Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. We expect, indeed, of all the authorities in the country not to in any way allow this hellish idea to succeed. We expect MPs and this parliament to draw appropriate conclusions after the negotiating team's report and the "three" they have negotiated with. Today, we did not receive specific answers from the minister to the questions we asked him. He said the Ministry has some plan, that the plan has about seven degrees and that the plan is a state secret. We are not satisfied that any plan of this kind can be a state secret for the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia, but we will see, we expect that Oliver Dulic will indeed finally schedule this session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija, so we will see what the members of the negotiating team will meet us with. I was unable to ask the minister while he was sitting here when he and Bojan Pajtic said that Vojvodina would receive a number of ambassadors in countries where Vojvodina has a special interest. What are these countries where the Vojvodina might have a special interest? I guess in all countries with which we have diplomatic relations Serbia has a special interest, a comprehensive Serbia has a special interest. The question, of course, is what will happen in international relations after the almost certain self-proclaim of Kosovo and Metohija, or Kosovo, and secessions, thus, Kosovo and Metohija. The minister acknowledged that Halstein's doctrine is also one of the options the ministry will propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we will see if that is indeed the case. Also, I have not been able to ask the minister what he meant when he said that Serbia is ready to be very broad when it comes to the status of Kosovo and Metohija. What does that broad-breasted mean? I think the great lack of this law (I am quick to say, because we still have very little time) is that he did not regulate the signing of international contracts and predicted that the National Assembly of those international agreements first saw, and then allowed their signing, not that the minister and government would put us in a position to ratify something that meant a lot of money, a lot of debt to the citizens of Serbia. I never report on where that money is and where that money was spent. I am sorry, too, that today the foreign minister did not mention Serbia's relations with Croatia on the issue of Republika Srpska and did not explain why they did not accept our motion to vote the resolution, related to the preservation of the Dayton Agreement in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12841	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Milosav Milickovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a shame the minister had to travel, because it seems to me that he would have heard of some proposals and objections from opposition parties, and above all, the SRS, because those who advise him mostly misindicately advise him. Just because the advisory body contains various Svilanovics, various principals, it is normal that man cannot expect them to be well advised. The attempt to discuss this law comes down to a seamless debate, as you can see, has failed. The Serbian Radical Party expected a comprehensive law, which would solve everything, at least systematicize all relations between us with the world, the world with us. I think instead we've got one half, mostly unusable law, a law that will regulate some things within the Foreign Ministry, in part. After this law, nothing better will change. It is evidence that these 6th and 7th members have submitted amendments to you by the Serbian Radical Party. Big mistake. The Minister through this Article 6 tries to mutilate what has already been done and what will be broken into his head, I am referring to these advisory bodies. He says the minister can establish advisory bodies, composed of prominent experts from the relevant areas. The prominent experts from the relevant areas are Goran Svilanovic, formerly, in a state accident, foreign minister, a man who has been clearly and unequivocally pushing for Kosovo's independence from the first moment on. Maybe his behavior can be understood, but it can't be justified, because the man between his father's and his uncle's chose his uncle's, but that's his problem. Of course, here present Gašo Knezevic, a man who predicated the law at Law School, breaking up a working relationship with one of the most respected professors in the world today, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Then this same Gašo Knezevic said – him or me. I remind you, it's that Minister of Education who's in the so-called "Secret." In the playgrounds, in the camps through the game, he made the girls take off their bras. You forgot, that's the one, Gašo Knezevic. So why did such a half - law and bad come before the National Assembly? It's very simple, the condition to discuss presidential elections is the adoption of this law. This was scrambling on two, three, brought before the National Assembly, and before the messengers of the people to discuss it. Who are the ambassadors? Today, we were honored by this coalition bloc, so they said Ducic was a top intellectual, Ivo Andric, a top intellectual, were ambassadors. We absolutely agree that Ducic and Andric were top intellectuals, they were writers. However, what you sent to the ambassadors after the "buldozer of the revolution" is not worthy of shoes to clean Ducic and Andric. I remind you that the man went for the ambassador, went drunk, came back drunk, had no idea where he was or what he was doing. Just two more sentences because I have to hang up, there's a few more speakers. The minister says there is a wide range of what Serbia can do with those who recognise independent Kosovo the next day after the self-proclaim. We in the SRS all the time are saying that we need to end diplomatic relations. Yes, from a dark look to a break-up of diplomatic relations. A stop to diplomatic relations, that is how the state of Serbia can respond to those who will refrain tomorrow to legalise the abduction of part of the territory. One more sentence, state foreign policy is not socks, so you can change them every day. Serious countries don't change state policy for 100 years. Since the arrival of the DOS, state policy has changed at least four times since the "Buldozer of the Revolution". For now, all I have to say is I'll say about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12843	The People's Messenger, Milosav Milickovic, has the word, and after that, the Messenger of the people, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12844	Many objections can be made to the proposal for a law on foreign affairs, but as a fundamental point, I would say that too many members of the law are committed to status issues of diplomats and other staff in the MIP, so many important issues are left without the necessary details or are not even processed. I'll make some of the basic remarks. It is justified in the draft law that diplomats must be qualified through appropriate schooling and passing exams at the diplomatic academy. Even occasional knowledge checks are foreseen. However, Article 39(1) leaves a broad possibility for ambassadors to be appointed and persons with appropriate experience even in some other organisations, whether or not in NGOs that are the most frequently paid agents, etc. international communities. There is a real danger that this whole attitude is being widely applied, that new cases of those who have no idea appear, and most often do not even have appropriate diplomatic behaviour. In the recent past, it was Vesna Pesic, Borka Pavicevic, Basara, Milan St. Protic, Gordana Anicic, etc. In this legislative proposal, very little, or even not at all, mention the rights and obligations of the National Assembly in forming the state policy they are obliged to implement diplomats and ministries. The most mentioned are ministers' rights, the less government. It is necessary to include in Article 2 a sentence that one of the most important parts of state policy are resolutions, declarations, etc. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is also necessary to include the obligation of the executive authority that all results of state and foreign policy are often considered and evaluated in the National Assembly. I would now ask one question -- when will current Minister Vuk Jeremic, Buljubasic, Pozderac, give at least the necessary ratification of the contracts never signed by the elected Minister Vuk Draskovic, and especially the agreement on the passage and residence of NATO troops on Serbia's territory and the agreement on the full immunity of US soldiers for crimes committed in Serbia's territory? Did the current foreign minister sign similar contracts on the orders of his instructors who trained him in the United States, at the infamous John Kennedy State Management School, or perhaps on the advice of his esteemed "adviser" Sonja Licht? Also, another question -- when will the National Assembly be delivered for ratification of the SOFA contract, signed by Condoleezza Rice and Boris Tadic? Article 6 states that the minister is self-forming advice – and has already illegally formed it before the adoption of this law – made up of "reputable experts". Are these respected experts Branko Kovacevic, Goran Svilanovic, Vojin Dimitrijevic, Gašo Knezevic, Sonja Licht? In Article 46, paragraph 3 states that the diplomatic academy deals with international co-operation and with foreign-country foundations. Does this mean that they will also work with many notorious NGOs, such as Soros, the Crisis Group, etc.? Does this mean that as guest lecturers, Marty Ahtisaari, Madeline Albright, Holbrook, Goran Svilanovic and similar will be invited? As for members dealing with the status of diplomats, article 59 says maternity leave is used in Serbia only on a personal express request. It is probably necessary for a respected lady to receive a large foreign exchange allowance when she does not work properly, and for the sake of her kind of work she should live outside Serbia. When it does not work, then why does it not temporarily return to Serbia and live as other Serbian citizens? Finally, members of 62 and 64 are contradictory. The new bill differs greatly from the existing law, the Law on Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro. By entering into force of the proposed law, the existing law ceases to apply. How, then, is it possible that sublaws, which are in accordance with the current law, are valid until 1 January 2009, and some of them will be in conflict with the new law? It was necessary to, in parallel with the draft law, prepare and change in sublegal acts, but this is most likely the result of the speed this law was made, in order to obtain conditions for calling presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12845	The word has been given by the People's MP Milorad Buh, followed by the MP Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as proposed by this law, the Proposer predicted to make this law a system law in the field of foreign affairs. However, in the proposal itself, there is no basis for the law to be declared system law in the area of foreign affairs. Two remarks refer to why this law is not a system law. First of all, because it does not contain a national strategy in the area of foreign affairs. Secondly, the relations between the state authorities in the area of foreign affairs and their competences have not been clearly defined or established. These are my two reasons, and there are far more, because you've been more concerned with the rights that officials have, which should have been regulated by some other laws; you could regulate it by sublegal acts, for that you have grounds both in the Constitution and in other laws. What is important is that the arrival of a new minister expected a turn in the area of foreign affairs. I personally expected him to bring in a certain newspaper, since he stressed that he would make a remont, in terms of rejuvenation of MIP personnel. In this direction he went with certain activities, however, when he mentioned an advisory body that would be accompanied by the Ministry and when he mentioned certain people he would include in the Ministry, I realized that we were free of paint, there was nothing. The minister said, at one of the conferences, that he would include Goran Svilanovic, Vuk Draskovic, Sonja Licht, Bojan Dimitrijevic and other prominent DOS leaders who worked most against the interests of the country. So we can't expect anything serious in this reform in the area of foreign affairs. What I resent to the ministers so far, and also to this minister, is that nothing has been done in terms of protecting the interests and rights of Krajisnik in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution, whose head I am, addressed at least 20 letters to the foreign ministry and sought protection primarily of property rights, as well as other rights of Serbs in Republika Srpska in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry doesn't correspond with the government. Let me say that I understand that, however, I cannot understand the position of the foreign ministry that ignores everything that happened between 1991 and 1995, genocide and ethnic cleansing, burning, destruction, destruction of the property of Serbs in Croatia. I'd like you to answer my questions, as an MP I've asked here a few questions concerning the protection of the rights of the Krajina, the protection of their property that has remained there, those rights which are primarily property rights, acquired pension rights. Of the other rights acquired here, we must mention household law; it was owned by Serbs by 50,000 apartments, however, no apartment in social property with tenant rights that Serbs had was returned. It is a crime against Serbs and it is a continuation of the genocide policy of the Croatian government, and this authority actively participates in all this. Here, given the time that is going on, I will have to mention to you one silent event that took place twenty or slightly more days ago - in the village of Jasekovac in Republika Srpska Krajina, that is, today the Republic of Croatia, the monuments of the largest Serb, Nikola Tesla, along with twenty more monuments have been destroyed. This ministry and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have done nothing to send a protest note to Croatian authorities and to seek protection of the property of Serbs. Not only in this case, but also in thousands of other cases where it collapses, destroys, there is no protection, there are no protest notes, simply, by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia towards Croatia does nothing to protect this property. It is important to say that an intensive anti-Serbian policy has been conducted since 2005 by Croatian state officials, Mr Mesic, Sanader, Ljuba Juric, etc. Again, no note has gone to those state authorities. Another agreement was signed between Serbia and the Republic of Croatia in 1996 on normalisation of relations, where Article 2 said the two parties would work in accordance with international law, respect sovereignty, territorial integrity, the independence of the other party's party. What was done by the foreign ministry when representatives of the government, i.e. the prime ministers of Croatia, Albania and Macedonia, openly said in Tirana in July of this year that they advocated the application of Ahtisaari's plan? It is a direct attack on sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. None of the protest notes, etc. It's a shame what you're doing, it's a shame to the Krajis that you're not doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12847	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister had to leave, and here in the O.R., he left his advisor, Gus Knezevic. A good part of the law, namely about 80%, is prescribed from the previous law on foreign affairs, which is also stated in the reasoning of this law. I'd like to refer to Article 5. Proposal for a law - the department's affairs. Article 5(4) states that the ministry is proposing to the government the establishment and termination of diplomatic relations with other countries. It is okay that the ministry can propose to suspend and establish diplomatic relations with other countries, but in point 4 of Article 5, it should say that without the government's consent, the Ministry cannot establish and end diplomatic relations with any state. One of you might comment - that is understood; no, gentlemen, that is not understood, because it is not specified precisely and specifically in point 4) that the Ministry can do anything without the consent of the Government. Here, for example, the minister proposes to the government at a cabinet session, the government says it will consider the proposal and remain a status quo for a while as far as the proposal is concerned, and then, on the basis of its powers and tasks, the minister considers that the government has not made a negative statement in relation to its proposal and is going according to its opinion in the realization of the proposal, i.e. The establishment and termination of diplomatic relations with other countries, and it does everything without the government's consent. Then there was a diplomatic scandal, the government did not give consent, did not stand behind the decision, the minister of justice sent a proposal, and the government did not respond negatively, so he assessed accordingly, and there is no member of the law that obliges him to wait for the government's consent. In item 5, Article 5 states that the ministry proposes government membership, i.e. the participation of the Republic of Serbia in international organisations and integrations, as well as in other forms of international co-operation. The exact same problem as point 4), without the government's consent, and here it is left out in this point 5) of Article 5. The ministry was left to act on its own. So it must be in point 5, as well as in point 4 of Article 5 of the Foreign Affairs Act, that without the consent of the Government, the Ministry cannot decide. It is identical in point 16) of Article 5 of this Law, again the ministry proposes, but nowhere does it say that without the government's consent it can decide. For example, it can be dragged through the text of a particular proposal that is not in the interest of the Serbian state. Who will be responsible for this, when the law does not state that the minister is obliged to receive the government's consent to this proposal? Article 6 - Advisory bodies, that's something new that wasn't prescribed by the previous law. "In order to further formulate the proposal for a foreign policy strategy and improve the overall activities of the Ministry, the foreign minister can establish advisory bodies composed of prominent experts from relevant areas, whose engagement in advisory bodies would be of honour. "That's your 6th. You know, you have here the engagement of certain persons whose engagement in advisory bodies will later be honorable, so tell me is it the engagement of Gaša Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic and others? A great right is given to the minister, given the authority to set up an advisory body without the government's consent, according to its own opinion, not to be accountable to anyone for their actions. In short, is the Government sure that the establishment of an advisory body composed of "reputable experts" will lead to an improvement in the ministry's work, or is it just a cover for the intrusion of individual people who are not in favour of the interests of the Republic of Serbia into the advisory body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that they, through their personal opinions, through the Ministry, implement proposals which know who and who knows whose countries and governments? Since they will be at the ministry in order to develop a more professional and versatile formulation of the proposal for a foreign policy strategy, then they cannot just give the minister a free hand to choose who they choose in this advisory body, without the government's consent. Article 39 - Special measures to improve the diplomatic staff of the Ministry: "In exceptional cases, when the needs of diplomatic service of these conditions, the minister may, without conducting a competition, make a solution to the admission into a working relationship to indefinite time", be careful now, "a person with appropriate experience in scientific research, significant diplomatic experience, professional knowledge and skills or experience in working in international and other organisations". The legislator is trying to through this draft law on foreign affairs as they put forward in the new proposal some special measures to improve the diplomatic staff of the ministry, so they suggest an exceptional possibility of hiring without the competition of a person with appropriate experience. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just a proposal for a solution to the employment of new DS personnel, it's been legalizing so far illegal employment of people without competition in the past seven years, since DOS came to power. It is understood by this law, if you adopt it this far-reaching, that you do so in the future. And it is also said in the explanation of Article 39 that in modern diplomacy, the reputation of a country is estimated, among other things, by the number of domestic experts working for prominent international organisations, and then by the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the International Committee of the Red Cross and other NGOs. Do you all so-called. Experts meet all criteria so they can possibly be employed by the Foreign Ministry? We are generally known to have secret services from other countries in Serbia. You've made it possible for them to rule for seven years. You are now giving this law huge powers to the minister, to continue to bring on the Serbian government's payroll persons as experts, and the first criterion, and most importantly, which they do not satisfy, is loyalty to their country and to work in its interest. They don't work in the interests of their country and none of them are patriots. It means that in the foreign ministry, too, someone else, some other government of the foreign state, not the Serbian government, is not asking the government of which the Serbian people voted. (President: Time, Mr Topalovic. I'm sorry, I just spoke to the minister, I said I had seven pages ready for him. He said-- since I have to go, you read it to have it in my stenogram. (President: It's nice of you to speak to the Minister, Mr Topalovic, but this assembly has its own time. But, here, finish, bring the end. Here you go. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, since I have to finish, I will shorten my exposure. This proposal for a law on foreign affairs is written so that it gives enormous authority to the foreign minister. This has been proven and you could hear during today's debate on the presentation of the SRS MPs. So I would like to tell the Minister, who is not here now, has his advisors, Mr. Knezevic, at least you could pass on this, there are a lot of amendments to this bill of yours, only the SRS has seven amendments, accept these amendments so that this law can be applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12849	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's bill aims to regulate the area of foreign affairs in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia and the Constitutional Law. So far, foreign affairs have been defined by a rather general framework, that is, the Law on Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro, which has also been applied after the disintegration of the community. Although Serbia is Serbia's legal successor to Serbia-Montenegro, the fundamental law was unable to fully and thoroughly meet the requirements of Serbia's diplomacy. This certainly does not agree with my esteemed colleague Gordana Komic, who said in the afternoon part of the debate that our country has often failed to achieve certain goals during history, even under unfavourable circumstances. Starting with an agreement with Byzantium, Ugri, Milk, Germany's King Friedrich Barbaros, Stefan Nemanja can still be seen as the predecessor of Serbian diplomacy, then through the sacred Sava, who certainly used the skills of negotiations to pay for SPC self-certification, via Milos and Mihail Obrenovic, who have been carefully measuring the historical successes in improving national and national interests. In addition to the rulers, our country has had many wise heads through the history of diplomacy, such as the Bishop Isaija Djakovic, who during the Turkish-Hungarian conflict managed to employ greater rights for Serbs. Also, scientists and politicians, such as Jovan Ristic, who managed to increase Serbia's territory by a quarter at the Berlin Congress in 1878, to preserve good relations with all major forces. I would only further mention prominent writers such as Ivo Andric, Rastko Petrovic, Stanislav Vinaver, Milos Crnjanski, as well as Jovan Ducic. It would certainly not be fair not to mention Slobodan Jovanovic. The foreign policy, which must first be clearly defined and strategically established in the country itself, should be fully consistent with the government's policy, which is in charge of the issue under the Constitution. The realisation of foreign policy must be such that it is adapted to modern challenges, traditions and must not be congruent, nor confrontational. Diplomatism must make sure that its conduct dictates state interests, not emotions. Our diplomatic practice, unlike some other countries that fully apply the principle of professional diplomacy, or those in which foreign affairs ministries dominate party divisions, has so far practiced a mixed principle, where a significant part of the staff comes from the house itself, and people with whom this is not the case have been hired. The experience of Serbia-Montenegro's previous state union in the area of foreign affairs cannot be praised by excessive efficiency. It is simply that only the structure of the way in which external affairs were conducted, which included a certain type of key, did not allow Member States' interests to be promoted in full capacity because, as a rule, by key, there were always human beings who were not in the interest of the survival of the state community, and some did not have the elemental skills and education to do this job. A degree in familiarity and friendship must be used only for the benefit of the country it represents and whose service it is in. In Serbia's recent history, there have also been individuals who, by their own will, have led to the fact that the country of origin had to recall them, which is neither common nor very pleasant practice for the country sending such a diplomat. Our country is located in a very complex and specific period, when we are fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. The strength of the argument of our policy should be based on the truth, the consensus of our policy, because it simply opposes a strong financial and political lobby that has been working intensively for decades to separate the southern province. The platform on Kosovo and Metohija, adopted by the Serbian Parliament, is not only the basis for the negotiating team's activities but also the foreign policy framework and the form for representation of positions on the issue. This is a real example of how long-term and stable policies are established, in collaboration with all relevant state bodies that have access to diplomacy. A coherent view on Kosovo and Metohija is exactly a lucid example that state policy should not be unilateral, and it is necessary that long-term goals should not be changed every day, with new furniture coming to power. Serious countries have this stability, a very difficult change in a defined policy direction, which, unfortunately, we can see in the case of foreign policy on Kosovo and the Metohija of certain countries whose policy has not changed at all, although there has been a change in the administration in those countries. Although the law does not speak of strategic directions and priorities, which it does not claim, in terms of foreign policy, it is clear that our foreign policy must make sure that it is in line with the real interests of our citizens, on generally recognised principles of international law, the UN Charter, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with full respect for UN Resolution 1244. It is important that we be guided by principles of respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states, as we expect from all others. Particular attention should be paid to improving and strengthening relations with neighbouring countries that respect these principles. Also, our priority in this area defines a strategic commitment to European integration, under the same conditions as for all others, as well as further strengthening relations with Russia, the non-European forces of China and India, as well as achieving better relations with the United States. Of course, it should not forget the traditional friendly countries with which Serbia has a history of good relations. Serbia has specific interests in the Balkans and Central Europe. In this context, it is important to mention a special and parallel relationship agreement with the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Dayton Agreement. In addition to bilateral relations, it is necessary to pay great attention to the participation of our country in multilateral organisations such as the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc. From the solution offered, it is important to single out that the foreign ministry proposes membership in international organisations, the government proposes a possible interruption of diplomatic relations with certain countries, if necessary. Advocacy bodies as a moderation of labour improvement and strategy-finding are a quality solution, but they cannot have the exclusive right to determine Serbia's long-term and comprehensive foreign policy. There are also important items that accurately determine the procedure for opening our foreign representations, as well as diplomatic titles. The introduction of an item defining the material and social rights of family members and covering the health insurance costs of our diplomats is very important for very obvious reasons. Also, it is very important to define precisely the cultural centres Serbia has in the world, and I hope it will encourage the opening of new ones, because besides the one in Paris, the Republic of Serbia has no more cultural centres. I think it's inadmissible, because it's much more expensive to have a network of cultural representations of your country than to separate additional funds for it. We must follow the path of some countries in the wider environment that organized their cultural heritage here and then sent their economic and political delegations. An important aspect of international activity is parliamentary diplomacy. Namely, the National Assembly actively participates in the work of several international bodies through permanent, associated and observational delegations. Through such work defends the interests of the state, and the most recent example is the new resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which the CoE Parliamentary Assembly is preparing, which our permanent delegation is trying to change in essential things, that is, the work where the author states why this Serbian province should be independent. I can express regret that there was no place in this law before us to define the internal organisation of the MUP, but I am convinced that it will be done with certain sublaws. I think that although this law is not ideal, it certainly is acceptable, because it is the foundation that will be upgraded in the future in accordance with the needs and possible shortcomings that will be visible. As I understand it, Mr. Minister has announced the adoption of a number of amendments, which will improve the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12851	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE BASES OF THE FUNDS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (principles) Before we enter the procedure, I give the word to Vladna Batić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12852	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't have any reference, and I don't want to deal with the past. Mr President, I suggest that, in the framework of this amending Rules of Procedure, you put in practice, to speed up the work of Parliament, when you cannot agree in the coalition, that the written referendums of MPs can be delivered in writing, better than they can speak here and no one understands them. What I was about to say is under Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I wanted to, although you didn't give me your word in time, and the minister left, to ask, in addition to what I was saying about foreign policy in the area of Kosovo and Metohija... The second most important topic of foreign policy and diplomacy was European integration. Many here have announced the rapid entry into the European Union and other Euro-Atlantic integration, and we have reached the initialisation of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement. Paraph means prenuptial. The pre-contract is concluded when the seller has no confidence in the buyer, so first he makes a pre-contract, so he has to fulfil all obligations, so only when he meets all obligations, then comes the contract. She signed it after a few days and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it's just a small start. Albania signed an Association and Stabilisation Agreement five years ago. Serbia must do much more in the plan to fight corruption, monopoly, crime. Once again, black chronicles are full; murders, explosions, muggings all over the place. The judiciary isn't independent here. We have been asking here for days how it is possible for the former President of the Constitutional Court to continue to receive the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court of 230 thousand dinars, but few are, so he became a member of the Management Board of the "Official Messenger" to help the difficult material situation of Slobodan Vučetic. As we work so hard to get closer to the EU, especially since we have one general Russianization of Serbia here, which happens to us as things happened in Arangelovac last night. I wanted to say, the truth is, Boris Tadic condemned what happened last night in Arangelovac, an attempt to prevent a public word, a right to the opposite opinion. These are all things that distance us from European integration, and something about this should have been said by the foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12853	Thank you. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will present the draft law on the basis of the regulation of the service of security of the Republic of Serbia in order to clarify the basic solutions set out in this bill, and in the hope that, following the debate in principle and in particular, this law will be adopted. This law is relatively short and in five chapters is governed by the following basics of the Security Service, which are: the principles of security services, their position in the security-intelligence system, especially within the framework of the security-intelligence community which is hereby established, directed and coordinated the work of the Security Service and, ultimately, the supervision of the work of the Security Service through a rather detailed relationship between the National Assembly and the Security Service. This law has two key advantages compared to existing normative solutions: the first is that by creating a security-intelligence community enables more efficient work of security services in the Republic of Serbia, and the second is that through the same mechanism, but especially through the mechanism of the relationship between the National Assembly of Serbia and the Security Service, it establishes a far higher level of control, democratic control of security services. What are the key newspapers that introduce the Bill on Fundamentals of Security Services? The security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia is defined as a single system. The security-intelligence system of each state represents unity, the comprehensiveness of several elements of the security services, other bodies, organisations and entities that play a particular role in the security-intelligence system, activities, measures and, ultimately, the regulatory framework. Then, a special authority is established, or body, which is a national security advice, and for operational coordination of the work of the Security Service Bureau for the coordination of the work of the Security Service. Also, instead of the five security services so far, there will be only three security services in the Republic of Serbia in the future. These are: BIA, as a special organisation, military-security agency and military-intelligence agency, as a management body within the Ministry of Defence. As is apparent, the Department of Research and Documentation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Security at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will no longer be a service of security. The third chapter establishes the position of the Security Service within the system of the intelligence community established by this law and the first section establishes a National Security Council, and in the second section of the Coordination Bureau. The National Security Council has clearly defined competences in Article 5, and the members of the council are: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice, the Chief of Staff and the Directors of the Security Service. The Council shall be chaired by the President of the Republic, and he may also invite the heads of state of the council, in accordance with the needs of the Council's work. The Council has its secretary, and that is the chief of staff of the President of the Republic's cabinet. The Council has an office, established as a government service by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which means that as a government service, it is subject to all regulations subject to other government services. The Office shall carry out certain administrative and professional tasks for the purposes of the advice. The second section shall establish a coordination bureau, which shall operationally coordinate the work of the Security Service and carry out the Council's conclusions on matters under its jurisdiction. It is quite clear that the work of the Coordination Bureau will make it possible to work more efficiently for the Security Service and that this will be a necessary element of the existence and future intelligence community, which we hope to finally establish by this law. The Bureau of Coordination shall consist of the Directors of the Security Service and the Secretary of the Council, and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Director of the Police, the Chief of Police, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Director of the Customs Administration and the managers of other state bodies, organisations and institutions may participate in the work of the Bureau, in accordance with the needs. However, what may be the most important for democratic civilian security control is in the fourth chapter, which bears the name - Security Service Control. Article 15 lays down the principles of supervision, and Article 16 develops congregation oversight, or oversight, of the Committee of the National Assembly. At this point, it's the Defence and Security Committee, and if there's a separation in the perspective, it'll probably be that Security Committee. It also provides for a series of obligations that security directors have towards the National Assembly's competent committee, and a special obligation is to submit the report regularly, as well as to submit an emergency report, at the request of the Committee. On the other hand, the Director of the Service shall be required, upon request of the Committee, to provide insight into documentation, premises, service activities, except in cases which are taxed here, which are all in accordance with comparative practice, in particular that of the practice referred to as adequate and necessary in international organisations, NGOs, such as the Geneva Arms Control Centre. Cases where no answers can be obtained are as follows: identity of current and former security co-workers; data on members of the undercover services; data on third parties whose disclosure of these data could damage; methods of obtaining intelligence and security data; data on actions under way; way of applying special procedures and measures; information and information obtained by exchange with foreign services and international organisations, and classified information and information from other state authorities in the possession of the service. This is an international standard which is also applied in this law, which, hopefully, will in no way prevent democratic civilian control of security services, will, above all, not make it impossible for the Defence and Security Committee (i.e. the future committee that may be called only the Security Committee) to exercise this control and exercise. Finally, in the transitional and final provisions, it has been established that until the date of entry into force of the law which will particularly regulate the particular work of each security service, the provisions of the BIA Act, as well as the SRJ Security Services Act, which are not contrary to the provisions of this law, will apply. My belief is that this relatively short law, out of all 23 members, really gives one solid basis for more efficient work and better control of the security service, and better and more efficient work of our entire security-intelligence system. I sincerely hope that our security service within a single intelligence community, which is created in this way, will have the opportunity to effectively exchange all information and data that they have come to, and that the highest state authorities will have a clear opportunity, a chance, to be informed of everything that services, by the logic of things, in their reporting and reporting business must report. I therefore call on you to adopt this law, and then, on the basis of this law, the Government prepares and follow-up laws, which would specifically refer to the work of certain services.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12855	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence and Security, MP Ivica Dacic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Miroslav Petkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the MP Dr Vladan Batic, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Vladan Batic for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12856	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will not vote for this law, and neither will the LDP parliamentary group, because of a series of shortcomings and because it does not meet the needs of moment and time, which does not solve essential problems, and which inevitably reminds and be those ugly and bad associations from past times. Mr. Minister, I don't know how you always get the job of defending a law with which you don't have much to do with, especially a law that you didn't write. But it's not my concern anymore, it's the government of which you're a member. The law shows, and you explained it, that the Department of Research and Documentation at the Foreign Ministry will not be part of the security service. Then what's she gonna be? Is it going to be some illegal service out of the system, that is, the security service itself, as well as the MIP Security Service itself? Secondly, more seats will be taken by members of the military security service within the future National Security Council. The Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament has, as far as its powers are concerned, the disposition of standards governing its powers, even one positive and very idyllic role would be said. However, there is no sanctions, what if the head of the Security and Information Agency and members of other security services go deaf about what the Assembly Security Committee requires of them. So there are no consequences, there are no sanctions and there is no possibility that the National Assembly Security Committee will realize what its decision is. Otherwise, as soon as we mention the security service, it wakes up very ugly associations for the past few days. Security services in this country have had notorious death squadrons that have liquidated all those who were not at the will of political powers, people who were at the top of the government, and these reminders are, at the very least, tragic. Now that we put this bill in line with the draft budget... Speaking of the draft budget, today we have received a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, to discuss the budget according to an emergency procedure, noting that the budget's not being passed in time would have catastrophic consequences. The MPs did not withdraw the draft budget in order to now give a lesson as to what happens if it is, the government is responsible and Prime Minister himself, Mr Djelic. So, I return to the time when the then president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, elected in September 2000, despite opposition from all coalition partners, kept the post of head of security of the man involved in the most serious crimes, under whose patronage the greatest criminals, criminals, with the IDs of the security service, killed in Serbia, by the Ibar highway, via Curuvia, through Stambolic and a series of most monstrous murders. I hope that practice never continues that way. But when we see not government officials at the Security Service celebrations, but tycoons, shadow lords, then it's still a negative association. So, I repeat, we need to be very careful when security services are at stake, because when we consider what happened last night in Arangelovac, when we're seeing that we're back in the 1990s, then I'm afraid the security services don't get what they've had in those tragic years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12857	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic, as an authorised representative of the LDP. The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12858	Mr. President, I call on members 225 and 226. Given that a beautiful city has been mentioned several times today, someone says the town, one of the most beautiful in Šumadia, and in this context New Serbia is mentioned, I am obliged to say a few words. Your Honor, I'm appalled by the B92 Radio Television report on the failure to maintain the radio show's "Sand". What kind of objective information is that when B92 doesn't let anything say to the one they even call fascists? I find it hard to find the right words to describe such a feeling after a political event that I participated in most to calm down passion. In an anti-Serbian tribune in the middle of Šumadia, the voice of those Serbs who carry it in their hearts and do not sell it for a handful of bloody money. You can see clearly, and the local televisions were integrally playing footage, that I didn't insult anyone by any gesture, but simply, the gentlemen of the Sandstones couldn't believe that the supporters of their ideas were not in the Woodland. If they don't already have supporters, then they don't hesitate to insult those who think otherwise. I am comforted that I have been declared the leader of the rebellion against B92, and since all the riots have moved from the Forest, or mostly, I hope that this spark of rebellion against the White-World spirits will awaken other environments to resist. Once again, thank you to those who came with us to support us, despite the cold weather, the presence of the police in an incredibly large number, illuminated the face of the Shumadia. Municipality of Topola President Dragan Jovanovic, and I add -- and vice president of New Serbia. As for my colleagues who used to say before me that someone convicted me, I can also say that I personally testify that there were a lot of members and the Democratic Party. And it'll be in every place. Someone mentions the 1990s -- that's right, I see similarities with the 1990s, then there was one "TV Bastille" and it ended the way it ended. As for this "TV Bastille" called TV B92, I don't want them to, but everything seems to be going to end as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12859	Thank you. We're continuing our work. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP's authorised representative, and let MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12860	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before I begin to deal with the metrics of this law, I'd like to say a few principles. Speaking today about the law on foreign affairs, I said that the main feature of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the Byzantine-Ottoman approach to solving the problem, which has proved true tonight. Tonight we're going to talk about this important law in front of a half-empty gym, late night class. To make the situation even more interesting, when we agreed to extend the work, your coalition partners, Mr. Democrats, came forward and it brings the whole story of this law to teat. What if we had reported to the LDP in eight minutes to six, when your authorised representative finished his presentation, that we had used our twelve and a half minutes left? So much for the constructive approach of the ruling coalition to solve problems and the obstructive approach of LDP. (President: What I thank you for. I would now deal with the law on the basics of the security service. There is a bill before the MPs to regulate the regulation of services most mystified in our society. Is there any reason for mystification? It should not be, but it is widely accepted in society that there are many reasons for that. Both services are accused of threatening, blackmailing, listening, and killing. All of us who, and even outside this House, are involved in politics and are predicated to be serious politicians, can ask ourselves these questions and, I am convinced, give them soundly precise answers. You're assuming yourself what your answers are. We now have before us a bill of law that should, in a modern way, be like civil society, settle the issues raised. How does the Government approach this problem? I've already said a few words about obstruction and access to obstruction. I would now add that, instead of the most responsible for the functioning of these services, the government is represented by Minister Markovic, as if it were ordinary authorities of the state administration, not security services in this country. Mr. Minister is struggling here in front of us by reading the members of this law, instead of those who are most responsible for the work of these services coming and measuringly, in a responsible way, giving MPs what is in this law, what is expected of it and what is its character. How, then, can we even talk about reorganising these services, the issue of political belongings of people working in them, the legacy of the previous regime, the abuses, how do we even get into the measure of this unsaid law, when, because of the government's relationship, the previous issues are practically unsecured, or practically, no answer? The very name of this law is - the law on the foundations of the security service. What does "baseline" mean, and what does "baseline law" even mean? A law with such a name might be a feature of a state with a federal arrangement, where the legislation of the Republic approaches in a more detailed way the regulation of these issues that needs to be regulated by this law. In line with the fact that Serbia is not a federal state, it was necessary to pass a serious law on security services in Serbia, not a technical law, called a law on the foundations of the security service. Now I'd like to move on to the very analysis of the proposed members. The first part bears the name of the basic provision. In Article 2, the principles of the operation of the Security Service have been regulated. Article 1 gives detailed access to this problem. The question is whether attitude 2 should look what it looks like, or whether it's necessary. Item 3, which says that members of the security service cannot be members of political parties, is important and should be strongly supported, however, according to the entire law, the question is how applicable it is in the current consolidation of forces and political interests. In a second chapter called Security Services, a member of the 4th Regulation that all security services will be covered by this law and organized in our country. A security-intelligence agency, a military-security agency and a military-intelligence agency are mentioned. My predecessor, Mr Batic, asked what about the services of this nature at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Office for Research and Documentation and the Ministry of Security of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Secretary has just stated that these services will not exist. The question arises, who will continue to deal with their work and what is necessary for the smooth work of the foreign ministry, that is, those jobs that such services in foreign ministries in countries around the world are doing. If these services continue to exist, that is, if they are doing the work they have done so far, will they be treated as illegal services? Because Article 1 of paragraph 2 of this bill explicitly states: "In the Republic of Serbia, the establishment and operation of security services is prohibited beyond the provisions of this law. "It means that these jobs, apparently, no one will do them or will do them in an illegal manner. The third head bears the name - Guidance and coordination of the work of the Security Service. Article 5 sets out the responsibility of the National Security Council, and that's fine. However, article 6 sets out the composition of this council and says it is members of this council: the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the interior minister, the minister of justice, the chief of Serbia's general staff and the directors of the security service. The main question is whether this advice is a professional or political body, or a professional-political body. If it's just a political body, what will the directors of the Security Service and the Chief of Staff do? It's enough that there are prime minister, president and competent ministers. If this is a professional-political body, why is its structure favored by the military? Why isn't there room here, for example, for the director of the police? Furthermore, Article 7 in this same chapter determines the position of the Secretary of National Security Council. It's the head of the Republic's cabinet, and he's in charge. But in Article 8, which regulates the Council's office, it reads in point 1: "The government will educate the National Security Council's office (hereinafter referred to as the Council's Office), as a government service, which performs professional and administrative tasks for the needs of the Council. "Then this is further discussed according to paragraphs. The question we're asking is, what is this job about, the authorities being given to the government? If these affairs are handled by the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic in office, as secretary, what was I talking about earlier, why is the organisation of such a body being pulled out of the authority of the President and placed in the power of the Government? Or does that also fit the president's general weakness in relation to the all-powerful government? Article 11 and Article 12 in that same chapter shall be established by the Bureau of Coordination, its jurisdiction and its composition. This body is a lower body compared to the advice and deals with the coordination of the work of the Security Service and the implementation of the Council's conclusions on issues under its jurisdiction. So he's in operational business. The question is asked (it is a technical question, but it can also be essential) why is the Secretary of the Council involved in performing purely operational tasks, which should not be an operative in function? In the end, I'd like to pay attention to the head of security oversight. So this part of the law treats the issue of supervision and acts, at least it seemed to me like the best-organized part of the law. He predicts, says Article 15, surveillance of the work of the Security Service, which is based on the following principles, and the order of principles, and then the congregation's supervision, or supervision of the resolution committees in the Assembly and so on. But the impression is that access to such an important question is merely declarative, because norms that do not withdraw sanctions usually have only a declarative character. What are the sanctions for security officials if they do not comply with the principles, that is, with the provisions of this law regarding supervision? When, to remind, the Assembly's Security Committee demanded that his session be attended by Police Minister Jocic and the Director of the Security and Information Agency, Mr Bulatovic, and that he pleaded on the arrests of General Tolimir, they did not appear at all and did not suffer any sanctions for such a procedure. How can such a declarative approach to solving essential problems be taken down by this mystification of the work of these services? Thank you for your attention. Mr. President, I'd like to use the rest of my time for my closing statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12861	Of course, Mr. Rangelovic. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Shormaz, then the messenger of the people, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12862	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the constitutional deadline for the vote is being received, so is the government, and the whole government, not one part of it that is interested in holding elections, not the other part of it that is not interested, decided to somewhat humiliate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution is absolutely clear and if it has set a deadline by 31 December of this year, that is, at the latest 60 days from the date of the adoption of certain laws, then the Assembly should engage in the adoption of those laws, and not the law that resembles the laws prescribed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, as if we were little children. The constitutional law did not require that the basics of the security service be regulated, but that security services be regulated. You know very well how different that is, and you know very well that now you have another year under the Constitutional Law, and that means as much as you want, time, until the government changes, that you decide how to do security services yourself. It can't be done in a democratic, civilized society. He can't do security without the law. If you're returning us to the BIA Act, if you're returning us to the VBA Act, if you're returning us to the SRJ Security Act, then why are you writing this law to us? What this law has arranged so well that the motionary so cynically tells us - this was one of the conditions to hold elections for the President of the Republic. What does this law do when no service in it is mentioned? It is mentioned only, imagine wonders, the responsibilities of the National Assembly, the President and the Government, says, in supervision of the work of the Security Service. At the same time, the government and the president absolutely command the security services, through the council, through various actions, and will monitor what they themselves command. Only the National Assembly can control the security services. The President of the Republic can't. The government can't. No one can but the National Assembly. It's supposed to be in the law right here, absolutely clear. What's all about this law, and it's pointless to comment on a law that doesn't regulate anything. Mr. Dulic, if your condition is to call the election laws governing the security services, that condition is not met, even if this law is passed. At the same time, the budget provides for both the BIA and all other security services that are likely to exist in this country. Why do you care so much that you regulate security services before the election for President of the Republic? Why is the law not proposed, you have been prescribed the Law on Foreign Affairs and the Law on the President and the election of the President. Why don't you prescribe 90% of the provisions of existing laws? Replace, and instead of the words "Yugoslavija" - "Serbia", instead of "Serbia and Montenegro" - "Serbia", you still make up some makeup and we get the law of Serbia. If the previous laws were not in accordance with the Constitution, who will assess which provisions are in conflict with the Constitution and cannot be applied and which provisions are in accordance with the Constitution so that they can. The theme is ticklish. Security services, as you say, and especially some colleagues who are not in power now, are also serving to kill people. So all the unsolved murders in Serbia are attributed to the security services and you've done your job. Although you yourself promised, although Zoran Djindjic, as Prime Minister, said that to solve, say, the killings of Slavko Curuvija are not a question of how many months will pass, but how many weeks or days will it be until you announce who killed Slavko Curuvija. Seven years later, we're waiting for an answer to that question. There is a great possibility that some of you may know, but that the death and the monstrous murder of Slavko Curuvia serve to keep some people in fear or to keep telling the people about how the previous regime, which has now strengthened and we don't know why, what with you people, was involved in a monstrous murder. When do we say that? When we estimate the time has come. It is true that certain services that are classified as security services were involved in our wars. Why not participate? The President of the Assembly is a place in the war when his state is at war. What would the president of the assembly be wrong about if he responded to a call to war when his country entered the defense war? Nothing. He would have sinned if he hadn't fulfilled his sacred duty if he hadn't fulfilled his patriotic obligation. That's why it bothers me that you want to provide ideological neutrality in the ministry. So, you've cited political neutrality, you're a harsh thing that's probably material neutrality called interesting neutrality. Why wouldn't the Security Service have any interest? Why wouldn't she have an interest in everything in the country being right, in accordance with the law and the Constitution? Why wouldn't she have any interest in defending the country when they attack her? Why do you forbid her to have an interest? Why do you forbid her ideology? Let the Constitution and its laws be ideology. How do you deprive a man of ideology? You can deprive him of ideologies that don't comply with the law, but you have to tell him what you forbid him to do. Ideological neutrality, what do you want to do, lobotomy? What's left of people? What he's doing in the security service is now preventing him from loving the state -- and that's ideology; that he loves freedom -- and that's ideology; that he disobeys orders that would lead him into crime -- and that's some kind of ideology, or order him to commit a crime. You had to try a little hard to write a good law, because this isn't the law. Look, the Supreme Defence Council, in fact, this National Security Council. What is the National Security Council – the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Interior Minister, Justice Minister, Chief of Staff, Directors of Security Services. It's the Supreme Defence Council. What's his business? Co-ordinates, suggests, discusses, monitors, delivers opinions. More is the co-ordination bureau, in which some officials and operatives, in which the republican public prosecutor, representatives of the foreign ministry, are employed. And why aren't they representatives of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office? Where's your Supreme Court president here? Didn't he belong at the coordination desk? What are security services doing? They're tracking and listening, intercepting the conversation. Well, isn't this the President of the Supreme Court's place to say, "people, this can, and this can't." How many solutions do you owe on these grounds of the Security Service? When's that gonna be? Until the election of the President of the Republic? No, he won't. You will await the election of the President of the Republic. There's only one thing you need to know, by changing the President of the Republic, the majority of the congregation is changing. You have to understand that now, so fight so hard to keep this president here, I won't bother you. If you think this situation will remain in the Assembly by changing the president, you're wrong. No one can lie to the people anymore. No one can deceive the people anymore. These are the laws you must no longer waste on the MPs of the people. The relationship of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister must be defined, and even if they are not from the same party, who will listen and who will interfere. Best to make collective responsibility, mixed body. How he's going to decide the National Security Council, you don't know. Whose voice is crucial? You don't know. Is it a consensus when they decide, or most of them? What if they pass by the political parties they belong to, one to the other, one to the other, the third to the third. Where the co-ordination of the service of security in the military and in civilians is absolute, not that one is arrested, the other is released, not beaten in the streets of Belgrade. You know very well in which cases it all happened. What is the authority of the Director of the Security Service to be prevented from attending the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly? To limit ourselves to the responsibilities of the National Assembly? It's got to be at the board meeting. He can't be stopped at all. We're gonna postpone the board session, but to prove to us right after that, in an hour or two, what he was doing in the last hour or two, not to come through a month like nothing happened. And nothing happened, those services are now working so that nothing happens. Who are they supposed to follow, Americans? Well, the Americans are following them, still giving them orders on how to do the job. Where do they go to classes, who teaches them new technologies? Those who need to be followed, those who are a danger to our country. You've made cacophony, you've made a mix in these security services, in defense of the country, and that's your desire to join NATO, and NATO will defend us against NATO, to join the CIA, the CIA will defend us against the CIA. Then why do we need the state, why are you pretending to want your anthem, your flag? It's supposed to stop, before it should go, not kiss the American flag, and have its own security service. He can't. The US Embassy closed down a street in Belgrade, has a ramp, raises and lowers when they decide to cross a street in Belgrade. When did it occur to you to rebel against it? You can't say a word to them. What did they do to our embassy? You forgot what it looks like. You gave them the best location in Belgrade to build an embassy, you gave them military facilities, you moved military installations to spread Americans to Dedinj. What's their interest in having three or four acres on Santa, taking over their embassy, singing to them birds while we're starving here? You will vote this law, but what does Serbia get by it? As of tomorrow, when the law is passed, what will happen to what the law regulates? No, when something happens, you'll say -- look at the SRJ Security Act, look at the BIA Act of the Republic of Serbia, adopted in 2002. It was not the objective of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to remind us of the laws we had already passed and to ask us to apply them if they were in accordance with the Constitution. He asked us to pass laws that were in accordance with the Constitution. You're incapable of it. It's been a year for you to pass six laws and turn this country into a democratic one. What you insult us here and say - security services correspond to democratically elected authorities. Is that what you said? How else can the authorities in Serbia be elected? Of the first multiparty elections, which authorities were not democratically elected, what year? Come on, heroes. Even the year you boycotted the election, were there democratic and free elections? They did. Listen, "democraticly elected authorities." What authority has not been elected democratically? The one who could establish those services, but then they don't care if they wait for democratic authorities when they set up the service themselves. You saw what it looks like on October 5th when the services don't listen to you and don't respect the law. Thousands of members of those services were in Tashmajdan Park and in the street below television. No one intervened to prevent the burning of the assembly. They've assessed who they should listen to. They estimate that you come to power and immediately enter your service. They weren't interested in the law. Do you think it's a far critical point when they're going to reevaluate? No, it's just that we'll never put them in that dilemma. We will never require them to assess that we come to power to break the law, to take you down and not to carry out their duty. Those poor services that didn't preserve the SRJ Assembly building are poor service that didn't keep a police station on Mother Jevrosima Street. Poor thing. After that, you made a service out of them. That lamentation over the new BIA chief who hasn't been set up in five days... What would change? Only one Rade Markovic would go to prison a month early. What else would have been changed? You'd be arrested, Ratko Mladić? By 2004, you kept him in Belgrade, hung out with you, and in prison were those who cooked his lunch while he was hanging out with you, in prison were those who drove him around Belgrade, where you stood still to pass. It was a security job. You either have security or you don't. They're not good when they listen to you, but bad when they listen to others, they're good when they respect the law. Bring in that law that allows us to control the security services completely. Even we're ready for that bill to vote, and until then, this is the fog ahead of the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12863	The word has a folk MP Dragan Shormaz, as an authorised representative of the DSS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and let the MP Ivica Dacic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12864	People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia will vote in favour of a bill on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. As we have heard so far in the presentations of MPs, it is true that we need new laws on each of these three services in particular, but to begin with, we need basics. In fact, the proposed law regulates the fundamentals of the security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia, directing and harmonising the work of security services in the Republic of Serbia and overseeing their work, which is also necessary for the future work of all the three services, and, of course, later on, these laws (I hope that they will be very quickly in the assembly procedure) each of these services will be individually processed and each of them will have clear jurisdictional clear control through these laws. This law, if we want to speak realistically and honestly, as the National Assembly, even offers us far more jurisdiction than we have ever had in the matter of security control. The law itself has four parts. We've heard he's short, but that doesn't mean he's bad. I think it's a good law. The law in its first part of Article 3, the security-intelligence system, says security services are part of Serbia's single security-intelligence system. What is most important, to consider issues of importance for national security, he envisions establishing a National Security Council. So far, we have listened to public criticism for setting up this council, because it was established by a regulation. In this way and that part will no longer be disputed, because only setting up a National Security Council will, by passing this law, be regulated legally and his work itself has been legally regulated, not by a regulation, as has been the case so far. It's also precise what security services are. That is already said, the BIA, as a special organisation, the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, as the authorities of the administration within the defence ministry. As for directing and coordinating the work of the Security Service (and why this is important, no one mentions it so far), in our history and history of the security service, we all know very well, so far there has been more non-cooperation between the security services, primarily military and formerly DBs, or now BIA, than there has been co-operation. It was very difficult to reconcile their work for certain things that were important and necessary for the state, that they work together and that they jointly use their full capacity in the interests of the state and the citizens of Serbia. This way, this law starts to solve that part of the problem. Everyone knows, especially MPs who have been members of the Defence and Security Committee for years back, that just the co-operation between these services was often a step of stumbling and often slowed down the state in some very important moments. The orientation and coordination of this work is transmitted to the National Security Council and here clearly, through ten members, talks about the way the council works, which are its competences, its composition. Then another very important body is the coordination bureau. The Bureau of Coordination is made up of the directors of all security services and the secretary of the council, and what is important is that this bureau will essentially improve what I was talking about earlier, which is that it will contribute to better co-operation of the security service than it has been before. For us MPs, the fourth part is especially important. In this section, with regard to the surveillance of the work of the security service, much more and much better defined is the supervision of their work than has been the case so far. Assembly oversight is in Article 16. It clearly states what it is that the National Assembly is overseeing security services. Also, the law regulates the Committee's session. A very important second position is in Article 17 of this Law, which says the Committee sessions can be closed to the public. In that case, the President of the Committee shall inform the public of the work of the Committee, in agreement with the decisions taken at the Committee's session. So far, we have had, in recent years, an unpleasant situation, mildly said, at the meetings of the Defence and Security Committee when a report by the Security and Information Agency - MPs who are members of the Committee on the day of the session can read the report, but because of the presence of the media, they cannot comment on the Committee's session of important parts of the report. At the last meeting of the Security Committee, when we had a report from the Security and Information Agency, members of the Committee know this, even one MP presented to the media one piece of information that was not to be presented and which is in the report itself. It is also good that we have an obligation to keep secrets in Article 20 of the Law itself, as we have and clearly stated what it is that the Committee is doing as direct supervision in Article 19. I am sure that this article will also be held in this debate and in the amendment debate of certain objections. If there is, then we will try to explain to the National Assembly why it should stand like this. It is likely that this part will be disputed which says "the Committee members cannot ask security services for information about", so there are a number of things among which, for example, actions are under way or about members of the service with a covert identity. It's perfectly logical that you can't ask the Director of Security to bring that up to the MPs. There may be only a few countries in the world where such things are done, but again at closed sessions, again with the obligation to keep secrets. Let's just say, one example of this is the United States, but the question is, are they to their senators and congressmen... We even know of cases that their Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has been misleading senators and congressmen. We know about the Iraq case, where they cheated... After all, as was the case in England with parliament, where MPs are deceived about the weapons that Iraq has. So the question is, and when you have certain powers, can you ever end up controlling whether it's true what you're presented with. This solution is a solution that is in line with democratic principles and principles in all countries, whether it is countries of Western Europe or Eastern Europe. This law is something that is good and acceptable for the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia parliamentary club and we, I repeat, will vote for it once again. Now I would ask the chairman to allow me to react, I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure all day long so that the debate would go in the desired course and that we could continue after six hours of work and on this law, but as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, I would like to respond to this attack on members of the Nebojsa Trajkovic police force by savages at the Red Star Stadium. I'll be brief, if you'll allow me, and if not, then I'll have to report to the Rules of Procedure. (President - Milosevic Albianic: Do you have time, Mr. Shormaz? I have time, but it's not a part of the agenda, so I'm asking if you'll allow me not to answer the Rules of Procedure. (President: here you go. I would really have to react to what I see in our media calling these people who attacked this honorable and honest cop, who did his job well to the hooligans. It's not a Serbian word, and it's not supposed to be called that, it's supposed to be called what they are, and it's savages and criminals, and it's known that the state should treat savages and criminals. I want to support everything the minister said yesterday when he visited the injured officer, every word the minister said. I think as the National Assembly... And, we'll see tomorrow, if we have time on the Defence and Security Committee, we'll also talk about it and agree to visit the injured officer, Mr. Trajkovic, as well. It's really about time, and the whole case is proof that we did a good job of recently amending the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports, which is why we tightened the fines. This has happened because those who are obliged to apply this law, means the judiciary, have so far failed to impose penalties as the law provides, but I hope that, with a unique attitude and general pressure through the public, we will once come to a situation where such things are rigorously punished. This, in my opinion, was an absolute attempted murder, so it comes all the way out of that law and it needs to be punished by the wrongdoers most severely. What's the biggest problem, and it's about sports, not just football, but basketball, because that kind of thing happens in basketball... Today we are a second-rate basketball team, and until just a few years ago we were a world power. The reasons for this lie in the basketball union of Serbia, as well as in the Football Federation of Serbia. The problem is, so the Football Federation of Serbia, let's say, specifically for football, as well as clubs, above all those who are the strongest, which is the Red Star and Partizan. The solution should be sought here. It needs to be sharp and we as a state should react. No longer needs the Football Federation of Serbia... It's wrong for Serbian football to be Red Star and Partizan, I know there are the most fans here, but it's wrong for these clubs to be privileged. Those clubs need to be entered and checked for their business and the way this is done now, because we have evidence. Just look at the statements of some people from the Football Federation of Serbia where the secretary of the community of first leagues, who I know, Mr. Miodrag Jankovic, says -- we haven't thought about breaking up the championship because that would not have any effect, we would just deprive the football of those who come to watch the games. Those people we'd be deprived of the opportunity to watch football would be denied the opportunity to watch, firstly, one bad league football in our country. On the other hand, very few people would be deprived of our empty stadiums because of this kind of club behavior and the savages who come to these games not to watch sports and football, but to do some completely different things, which don't have much to do with sports. Just look at the statement by Serbia's General Secretary-General Zoran Lakovic, who says the next thing -- I know that tough penalties are needed for clubs because of these incidents, but such a decision is not easy to make. You know why such a decision is not easy to make? Because the Football Federation of Serbia is fully controlled by the Red Star and Partizan. Of course they can't punish them, because they're addicted to those two football clubs. The most embarrassing statement, in my opinion, said Red Star Secretary General Zoran Damjanovic, who tried to deny Red Star's guilt at a press conference yesterday for what someone said was an incident, and I'm talking about a savage criminal attack on a Serb police officer. He tried to deny the guilt of the Red Star Club as an organizer and transfer that guilt to the Ministry of the Interior by saying that they had done everything they needed to do in the organization, and that for the search of fans who came to the stadium, they were the guilty police officers who did not search the fans who entered the north. I have my doubts, and all of Serbia knows it, that in fact the police officers did their job well, the future investigation should go that way, and that those who organized the game, that's the FK Red Star, over the fence, added pyrotechnic assets to that group of fans inside. It's what clubs in Serbia do, and we all know it. So, you don't enter the outside entrance, but inside clubs give fans pyrotechnic means, and then what happens happens happens. This has to be made public once. I took advantage of the opportunity to say that tonight at the congregation pay phone, whether someone liked it or not. Privileges in the country of Serbia, those involved in crime, even if they were Star football clubs and Partizan, should not be. In this way, I am convinced, those who used pyrotechnics against a Serbian police officer came to these pyrotechnics and thus did what they did. They're embarrassing Serbian sport. Those we have been proud of this year, are also disgraced by those who have nothing to do with football, such as Novak Djokovic, Ana Ivanovic, Jelena Jankovic, embarrass each of us, each Serbian citizen in such a way. We all need to team up and solve that part and that problem in our society once. Thank you, excuse me one more time; if I had reported to the Rules of Procedure, I would have also talked about this, but I think it was directed and that this sort of thing should be said already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12865	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12866	It's really incorrect of you from the government to keep your mouth shut until the session is extended, and then you start talking about things that aren't even on the agenda. You're opening a topic that could be discussed and coming out of the session with clear conclusions, and now you're taking the opportunity to just make your views known. Well, there's got to be a little bit of cheek here, for four years, the president of the DSS government, the DSS police minister. Whose back is the burden of riding and events like this where people get hurt? On the burden of the MPs? What, are we to blame for the attacks on the police or the police on the people or what's going on? Take responsibility. Are the laws wrong? Well, you were changing them. When we convinced you that it wasn't good and that the police had to be tasked with providing sports competitions, you said no, clubs to provide, and the police to engage on call, if they wanted to. It was your basic idea, it ruined the security of the stadium. Who's to blame here? SRS MPs? DSS MPs? DS MPs? Nobody, power, executive power. You're not transferring that. Who sent a cop known to all those hooligans out there fighting him every Saturday? Who sent him to a civilian to film them, to follow them? Where is the responsibility of that commander or the commander who sent him? He was a scapegoat. It was meant to happen to someone so they could talk, like they send a cop's wife at night to attack her, eventually, but she's a security guard. This cop wasn't provided, he was released alone into a dissipated mass. He's sacrificed, and you know it very well. Whose responsibility is it? Police. Whose responsibility is that? Prime Minister. What justice? Has it arrived in front of the judiciary? It's not. I can't say it's the wrong judiciary. If they make small sentences, then they're guilty, but this case hasn't entered the process yet. We're talking about what happened at the stadium, which shouldn't have happened. Who's to blame? Clubs - all right. Police - it's the police's fault. We're about to kill each other in the streets, and the police aren't responsible for anything. Then what's the point of the police? What's the purpose of the Security Service? Did they have an estimate of what would happen if one gendarme who... You know who fans prefer to fight with? With the gendarmes and the intervention. They say they fight like we do. All right, good for them. Usually the police run away. They all know each other, name and name, street, address, home number of each other, name each other who they beat with last week. Someone sent one of them to a civilian, with a camera, to take pictures of what they were doing. Think about it. If those fans had enough brains, they wouldn't be doing what they're doing. It's not love for the club. It doesn't matter. But when the clubs organized the first fans' clubs, when they started paying their way to some games, so they demoted even the plane they were flying, it didn't bother you. You went to the stadiums to wave when you were greeted by those fans - the emperor, pick up, over there. Have you ever seen a radical in any club's administration? We've been trading on community boards when someone gets into sports, so let's keep him a wake and say, "Man, that's a crime, there's no room for you." Where are your activists? Where's the Democratic Party? She's all in sports. That's how you count on government. When you embarrass yourself, you just replace people, come second. Let's open a discussion about it, don't surprise us like this, now we want to talk about security services. We are ready for this debate, but everyone to bear their burden of responsibility: MPs, if they have refused you a good law, the government that has proposed a bad law, and the MUP, so what is his second job, what is business to that administration in Belgrade, but to secure sports competitions. To tell you the truth, I have a FK Partizan in my heart. I haven't gone to a game in at least two or three years. I wouldn't miss the hair on my head, but I want to take my grandkids to the games. Until you've secured it, there's nothing from sports. When the English have made their hooligans such laws and such punishments that it is now a family reunion, then so can we, we are more civilized than them and a more peaceful people. Except you won't. You create sources of instability, you scurry with one another. Who boasted that fans participated in the October 5th events? Who's gonna arrest them now? Well, you didn't arrest them when they burned down the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12867	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12868	I'm reporting as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, to respond to the first part of Mr. Shormaz's exposure. You, colleague Shormaz, have shown regret for your past time and told one lie. You said it was embarrassing that the defence and security committee's meetings were under public review. I must remind you that the Serbian Radical Party was the initiator of this and remind you (I can't remember whether you were a member of the Committee then, I don't think you were, I know that he was a colleague of Mamula) what it looked like before the public session opened. In fact, after October 5th (I will rely on what the president of our parliamentary group spoke about) on the basis of, I would say, a betrayal carried out by part of the Service on that day, when the authorities handed over to those who went to the streets to seek justice and democracy and lead to such a situation that, at the head of the BIA, the National Security Service came people who were deeply criminalized... In 2004, we had one single session of the Committee, whose chairman was Mr. Milorad Mircic, for the MPs, for the whole public, in a building representing a taboo; I remember that Bogoljub Pejčić, with the list of questions of Danica and Vuk Draskovic, as a member of the Committee, was waiting for us in that building, among which was a certain Goran Življević, whom Danica Draskovic and her husband, in his mania of prosecution or already in his well-known manner, accused us of everything and everything. When MP Čotric came to that closed session where it is so conspiraciesly spoken, he reads the martyr's names of all those who accuse Vuk and Danica Draskovic and says - on that list is Goran Živaljević, and this one says - I am the one, I am the BIA Deputy Director. It was more than a funny situation. At such a closed session, where, as at the time of Osna and leather coats, you must leave and deposit your private cell phone, so they look at you one way or another, the malts point the lamp in that room, where we MPs should control the service at that closed session, except for that pearl, Chotrić, we couldn't find out anything, or at all the sessions afterwards, because the reports were cut. No one's a nepatriot, no one's irresponsible. The members of the Defence and Security Committee, Mr. Shormaz, whatever the parties are from, are people who have delegated parliamentary groups, and we all know, because the people who care about the security of their country, the people, we Serbian did patriots, and I believe that other MPs, colleagues who are on the Committee, are thinking that they don't want the state to be at their disposal, they can't and have nothing in front of journalists, like in the past, to say, and that it's not a common knowledge and that it's not even better worked in some Sunday or some tabloid magazines. Even there is more information than in the Committee report, or BIA. In addition, the BIA reports show up false things, such as a lie that General Tolimir was arrested in Republika Srpska rather than on Bezanski's hair. I want to tell MPs who weren't there one more than a funny situation. On the question of colleagues from Peter Jojic to BIA director... And that would have answered him the same thing if it had been a closed session, as there was a possibility under Article 17. The law, in exceptional cases. So, Petar Jojic asks Radet Bulatovic – excuse me, are the MPs listening? He's in his favor. Not at this moment, I don't know. You're on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12869	The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, a replica. I'm just asking you not to cause any further replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12870	I made my own personal impression, and I have the right to feel uncomfortable on a committee that I can't ask a question I want to ask the director of BIA. I didn't say the board felt uncomfortable. Maybe someone just likes to sit down, take a picture and do nothing concrete. I'm not that kind of man. On the other hand, I also don't want to get into whether something in the report is a lie or not, it's another personal impression of someone who reads. I just want to say, about what Mr. Nikolic has said here, it's a classic demagogue replacement, I haven't criticized the MPs for any moment, nor the National Assembly, nor have I mentioned any parliamentary group, nor those who voted in favour of this law, nor those who voted against this law. Perhaps there was fear of telling who voted against this law, which is far more severe than it was before, which is needed and proved to be necessary. I commend the National Assembly that passed that law. I made it clear who the culprit is – clubs, as organizers of these events, and the judiciary, which does not respond adequately. There were about 40 convictions so far, something more, and they were all mild, according to this law I'm talking about. They weren't adequate. In England, it's particularly peaceful and of course it's quiet, because the law is literally applied years ago, because even those who make such incidents for 10 years are forbidden to leave the apartment at the time of the League or the First League in England; they must not leave the apartment, and you know that games are played there on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, at the time of these games. So law enforcement is a problem, and the police are doing their job according to the law. It is required to provide an object outside, it is an internally owed club, and so in all countries, whether it is located in Eastern Europe or in Western Europe, except when it comes to high-risk games, then special measures are applied and the police are, of course, more present. This game wasn't a high-risk game. It was a game, I remind you, Red Star - Hajduk; Hajduk from The Tower, if someone didn't think that Hajduk was from Split, because that would be a high-risk game. That's why there was no need on the inside for more cops, which is proof that sports was not the cause, it wasn't the game that caused the incident, it was the simplest savagery and a certain number of criminals... Which is the worst, which I forgot to mention earlier, one of those bad guys who attacked a police officer was a sergeant who worked for the Red Star football club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12871	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12872	There's something hard for you to say, Mr. Albianic, that Milutin can replace you. I can see you're barely talking, I guess you hate that we're answering the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what this is about, but the Assembly is where we need to face our opinions and answer each other to any misunderstandings and misunderstandings. I'm the one who called in Article 46. The Rules of Procedure, again as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, let me tell you, Mr. Shormaz, that, in your well-known manner, the first sentence was completely incorrect, not to use any other word. You say - I felt uncomfortable, and I don't know if anyone's coming in there to take a picture or what. If you honor that with any Serbian radical, then you have made a terrible mistake, because if it wasn't for us, Mr. Shormaz, the public could never know by what principle and how the BIA works in the part where the public can find out. Secondly, if those sessions were closed, as you suggest, here, since you feel uncomfortable, you could never see the public from the MUP report and what we're talking about with the BIA director in what way you lied about the arrest of the famous Serbian General Tolimir. As for painting or not, Mr. Shormaz, I, as a National MP, as a Serbian radical and as a member of the Committee, have been waiting for answers from the BIA, the MUP, for questions that I am actively asking at the beginning of each session of the Committee. First, when will you return the jeep owned by the Serbian Radical Party, which was kidnapped by your predecessor Dusan Mihajlovic, then Interior Minister? When Professor Vojislav Seselj will pay the reward of almost a million euros, now convert it to how many marks there are, for the three murders discovered that occurred in Serbia at a time when he was a predecessor... I suppose you're heirs, I'm telling you, because you're a representative of the government, from your party he's a minister. It was the murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic and two other murders that took place, Momira Gavrilovic... Even to this day, we have not received answers from Interior Minister Dragan Jocic, who inherited it, until it arrived. Otherwise, Mr. Shormaz, how good these sessions are and how persistent it means, such as the tenacity of Serbian radicals, shows that after two years from the chief of police station Belgrade, who was present at the session and who Mr. Bulatovic gave his word, I was asked if Danica Draskovic had ordered the assassination of the SRS president of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and what a certain face from Pancheva participated in, etc. Of course I got a confirmed answer, because Serbian radicals, and especially our president who always knows everything... Because, you know, and his books, "Laufer is telling me," which he wrote about Covic and the tobacco mafia, etc. and the murder of Defence Minister Pavol Bulatovic speaks enough about how we are and how we are informed, but let the public of Serbia on all these criminal acts and on all these murders be required and how to know, and the state secret and what is strictly operational data, of course, that everyone will guard because it is bound by the Constitution and by the law of this country to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12873	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't really know why we've been prolonging today's work with the intention to end or at least bring an end to this law, the last in a series of laws that we're obliged to pass in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, when Mr. Shormaz, with nothing, initiated here a story that has absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. I would understand that, Comrade Shormaz, you spoke to the Rules of Procedure, but you spoke of the bill and you moved on to the law that you have long since applied and which you have passed. So, I don't know what demagogue is in Mr Tomislav Nikolic's discussion when he only drew your attention that you've been in power for four years, that you've passed the Law on the Prevention of Violence on Sports Fields, that this law was passed at the time of the first DOS, so you've changed it. We have drawn attention to you both for the first and second time that riots and violence on sports grounds can only be prevented if the competent state authorities, or the police, are adequately involved. What did you do in that law? You've obliged sports clubs to hire the police if they consider it necessary and, of course, the police minister, I remember that's how it is in the law, concludes the contract to pay a fee that a particular club should pay, etc. Then we warned you that all this would lead to a problem on sports grounds, that sports clubs couldn't be allowed to judge for themselves whether they needed five or 55 officers at some sporting event. It's a police obligation, it's the Ministry of the Interior's obligation to take care of public order, to protect every citizen, so he was on the street, on a sports field or anywhere else. You didn't listen to us at the time. I remind you, and then we were fellow MPs, we had a large number of amendments, and I don't think any or almost any amendments to the Serbian Radical Party's amendment to the bill was accepted. As a result, it's a bad law, and the application of the law is upon you again, Mr. Shormaz. I don't mean to you personally; whether Dragan Jocic or Dusan Petrovic are responsible, you agree on this in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Shormaz, from the scene: neither. Ain't neither? Well, you said here earlier that the judiciary was responsible, and we say both the police and the judiciary are responsible. So deal with the government who's responsible and agree when you'll finally start doing your job and protect the citizens. You've left the citizens out of work, they've cut their salaries, they've cut pensions, you're still allowing these incidents, people's lives to be questioned on sports grounds, which should be places to relax.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12875	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Please, MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to talk about a law that's on the agenda. I want to start by saying that this really isn't the law provided for by the Constitutional Law. This is not the law that is necessary for calling presidential elections. I would just remind myself of that fact, as well as what Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic said, that he would call the elections, bring me either of these laws or not. So, from that point of view, this is a bill that is necessary, only does not fall under the necessary conditions for adoption by the end of the year, in order to call the presidential elections. This is just part of an area involving security services. It is true that the Constitutional Law stipulates that by the end of the year a law should be passed from the field of security services, and this is a law that has been being prepared for a long time. Those who have been in previous mandates are well aware of the need to create an intelligence and security community, i.e. the need to unite and coordinate various intelligence and security services for years. There are two basic values in this law. First, which, instead of regulation, is now regulated by law by the work of the National Security Council and, secondly, the more concrete the role of the relevant committee is defined in one more direct way. Which will be the committee will depend on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. At this point, it is the Committee for the Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose president I am. At first, I would like to say that there is indeed a question of advice for national security and its constitutional basis. The authority is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; under Article 99(6), the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia oversees the work of the Security Service. Therefore, Mr. Minister, none of those you mentioned here can oversee the work of the security service. Only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can do that. All this other stuff can be called coordination, coordination, but it can't be surveillance. Give me one constitutional basis where this authority is given to the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the National Security Council. I understand the need to form a council for national security, and I understand that you had to form it by a regulation, because from the international community they were impatient to wait for the law to be passed, but I don't understand why you didn't provide for a national security advice when you wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You cannot, in particular by regulations, supplement those bodies that you have forgotten in writing the Constitution and give them powers that they do not have at all. There was Zarko Korac, he was Deputy Prime Minister, he was a member of the former National Security Council; in the previous term of the Assembly, do you know that Zoran Zivkovic was head of the National Security Council for a year and, behold, Zarko Korać was a member of the National Security Council and when he was in opposition? Is it true or not, Mr. Korach? You haven't been relieved of your functions. They haven't relieved you, and you haven't even met. Zoran Zivkovic, as Prime Minister, was head of the council at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. The National Security Council cannot form ad hoc laws or regulations. Here's the positive thing about going to law enforcement. The National Security Council now exists under the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He cannot have the authority he now has, for these powers do not give him the Constitution. This law gives him certain powers, but he can never get the authority to oversee the work of the Security Service. You've defined it, the responsibility of the National Security Council, and it doesn't say that it oversees the work of the Security Service. That's right. Article 3, the security-intelligence system, it says, "The work of the Security Service is under the supervision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council and the public. "What does that mean? How can you give authority here to organs that they don't have under the Constitution? Please, when we define all of this, one question is whether anyone has the right to coordinate, coordinate and everything else, but they can't monitor; they know exactly what surveillance is, and that right only has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say that the positive thing about this bill is that the committee of the National Assembly finally gets some authority that it has not had so far. Here are the members of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... And so far, our responsibilities, although we have a constitutional category of rights to oversee the work of the Security Service, have been exclusively in considering once every six months reports of the work of the Security Information Agency. Even at the last session, there was a dilemma about whether we were ever adopting that report or just considering it, which is an absolutely unnecessary dilemma, because when someone is considering something, they should and should adopt it. It may say here in the Rules of Procedure that we're considering laws, I don't know if it says adopting them, but it's normal for you to consider adopting them. In any case, if you don't adopt a report on the work of the Ministry of the Interior, Security and Information Agency or the Ministry of Defense, which we don't have as an authority now, you don't have any consensus on the matter. At last, the Committee of the Assembly has received some responsibilities that it can use. These powers can, of course, be discussed, and on the Committee we discussed whether and to what extent can it go into the control of legality, etc. Some measures that apply to security services, especially those that are under way. Also, I have an understanding of the position of security services, because every security service resists little control; in the logic of the security service it is that it has no control, but that it controls it. In any case, you have actions that are under way, for example, you have actions that were ongoing and that we later found illegal, such as listening to MPs, journalists during the state of emergency. At the time, so you had no right to have insight into the action that was under way. That's where the question really comes in, but it's got to be done. In some countries, this issue has been regulated so that the Assembly Committee has the right, or parliament, to have insight into these actions in progress, but, of course, the choice of members of that committee is different. It means that those of us who control it should respect the procedure and all that, not that it's you who's going to jeopardize some of the security actions that are under way. These are the things that concern the details of all of this. I would like to commend this text concerning the Committee's jurisdiction. Whatever the jurisdiction is, even though they're less than they should be in our opinion right now, they're bigger than we have right now, we don't have any right now. That's why I think this law is necessary, and it's certainly not a law defined by constitutional law. In the transitional and final provisions, it is defined that a law on the Security and Information Agency, i.e. the Military Security Agency, etc., will be adopted in the coming period. I just want to ask one question here that's essential to character. I think that at this point in Serbia there are many state authorities that have the right to carry out special measures, meaning with special powers, and special procedures. These are procedures and measures concerning violations of the right: listening to conversations, the right to record, violation of the integrity of the apartment, etc. What are the organs that have that right today? Today in Serbia, you can be tapped by the Security and Information Agency, the Military and Security Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Interior; it has the right to listen to you by the Customs Administration and part of the Ministry of Finance regarding money laundering control. So far, this authority has even had the Department of Research and Documentation under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the so-called SID, which is no longer defined as a security service. I am now asking you a question to all of you, and to you, Mr. Minister, who controls all of those organs that I have listed and which do not have the status of the Security Service? Customs administration is not a security service. Who controls the legality of her work in listening to citizens? Who controls the legality of those who do research on money laundering, etc.? So, I think one question here is unclear, which is that the security control is defined... And security services aren't in themselves what the police are, what the military is, security services are what used to be called secret police. But if the basic matter of the security service is and the security services are the ones that can secretly control you, if some state authorities have the authority to secretly control you, they must have the status of security services and must be controlled and controlled by this Parliament. In Serbia, I think there is a vast list of those who have the right to control, listen and violate citizens' rights. That's what happens in the world, of course. Everything is justified by fighting terrorism, organised crime, international crime, money laundering, narcotics, human trafficking, etc. You know, in America, it was one of the basic reasons for making all kinds of laws, listening orders after 9/11. This is about having the classic abuses of these services in our terms. Here, I'll give you an example, when the Security Committee discussed and sought insight into the list of people who were tapped during the emergency. I would remind you of only one thing, then it wasn't the people who were tapped on the basis of a decision, or the consent of the President of the Supreme Court, but without that consent, without a decision. It could have been at a time of emergency, signed by Natasa Micic, and some of the provisions were later annulled by the Constitutional Court's decision. There was then a number of people, politicians, journalists; there was no man on the list who was then running the service, or was the director of the Security Information Agency, Mr. Rade Bulatovic. Does anyone in this country believe that the BIA leadership at the time did not listen to Radet Bulatovic, who was arrested during an emergency? So, a classic example that they didn't give the exact data, because it's impossible, there were various people on that list, there were journalists. You're now talking about the SPS expressions before 2000. Do you know why they were then tapped - to cooperate with foreign services at a time of emergency, with American services. Someone will say it's the remains of the former regime in those services. Of course, because they were headed by... And, you know what, you're all leftovers of the former regime. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Repeat again. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Dacic. Do you want me to document or do you want me to talk to you like this? So I'm asking, on behalf of the SPS, for all the files that exist in the BIA to be opened. I ask that a list of all state security associates be opened and announced from 1945 until today, and before 1990, so you will see how many of you have not left the former regime, but the creators of the former regime, and not Milosevic's regime, but the one-party system, Tito, whom you so supported and praised before 1990. [[Applause]] After all, some of them sat in the front row during the debate on the past agenda. True, not at the minister's post. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I can even document these people's complaints about erasing from the record of the former communist party. They said that they had repented, so that they would be corrected and so on. Now these people are the ones who explain the laws to us and who write the laws to you. List one of us who graduated from the communist school in Kumrovec. How many of you are there? In any case, they may not be present, but let me tell you, if one of us is finished, at least he is not ashamed, and you are the one who finished, and you want to forget about it and delete it. History can't change that way. Anyway, it's not the topic I want to talk about today. The security services we are talking about today must be controlled and supervised by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We welcome the text of this law concerning the competence of the Committee. We are proposing and asking the minister to define exactly who has the right of supervision, as the Constitution states, and not to give the National Security Council more authority than it has under the Constitution. Of course, I want to say here that security services, just like the members of the MUP, members of the Ministry of Defence and members of the Serbian Army, may face a great challenge in the coming period and a great temptation. I don't want political parties competing on who would destroy those services more and who would destroy the military, the police and everything else. We've done a lot of damage to each other. For this people and for this country, it is important to have a strong army, strong police, good security services, to protect this country and this people, not to have a strong army, police and security services to control each other and exploit each other. It's positive and it's good that there's gonna be a co-ordination of military and civilian security services. They never loved each other. Just like it was, unfortunately, in the war of military and police non-ordination, which I'm guessing will be resolved by this new defense law. Serbia faces numerous challenges. At all the meetings of the Committee we spoke, data were pointed out that it could be expected that certain security challenges in southern Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija could arise ahead of the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the role of all these security services is much stronger and much more significant than inter-party outwitting and bickering. The parties should not compete in who will control these services, in terms of who will lead them, but we should all compete together in how these services will operate in accordance with the law and the Constitution and in the interest of this country and this people. Because the authority of the Republic of Serbia is the defence and security of the country. Everything that is in line with the interests of the country's defence and security, we will support it. Anything that goes in the party interest we will strongly judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12877	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, the SPS and the LDP. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Here you go, Mr. Mamula. Then there is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12878	Nothing human is perfect, nor is the law, nor is this law. However, this proposal is one step further in regulating the field of security services, regulating their responsibilities and responsibilities. Of course, the transitional and final provisions make it very clear that special laws will be passed on security services, but that the Security and Information Agency Act, which is not contrary to this bill, and the Security Services Act of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 2002 and 2004, will still apply. At the time of their adoption, they responded to their duties, or their content, which was envisaged, but I think time passed. This bill is very important because it does, however, harmonize in a certain way the responsibility of the state authorities when it comes to security services. Until now, it's been regulated by a regulation. However, the law, as a source of law, can best regulate this area. However, it should be said that even the best legal solutions can be misused, so that the most important thing is to establish a climate of correct work, where there is no abuse, or that they be reduced to the least possible extent, that is to establish a principle of professionalism whose two basic foundations are knowledge and conscience. So it's in all areas, even in this area. The law states that there are only three security services, and that has been the case so far. Special responsibility shall be given to the National Security Council for directing and coordinating the work of the Security Service and the Coordination Bureau, which has a very important role to play in coordinating the operational work of the Security Service. For me, however, the most important chapter here is surveillance of the work of the Security Service. This was about Parliament having a greater responsibility, or committee. There was also talk here about having more jurisdiction, and I think the Committee now has more responsibility. Of course, responsibility is limited; the more authority there is in that committee, the more responsibility there will be. But now I think this committee has a very important responsibility, given how it is now defined. It is very difficult to find a balance between the work of security and open society services. It is very difficult to have a democratic order and at the same time coordinate the work of secret services and their responsibility. I think it is in my argument that the democratic principle that there is no verification of the members of the Security Committee, but I think that the democratic principle of doing this check is, and that there is an official check, especially if the Committee's responsibilities are greater. We have had opportunities to hear, say, from the EU that there have been more objections to the work of our security services, but recently, a resolution by the Council of Europe found that there are secret prisons in the EU, secret arrests, secret flights. When it comes to secret arrests, our citizens and soldiers in Kosovo were among the first targets and victims of secret arrests, which has also been made public. When it comes to direct surveillance, it provides for what the Committee does not have the right to do. When looking at parallel legal solutions in Europe, it is seen, for example, that Scandinavian countries, and especially Norway, give the board extremely great powers, whereas, for example, in Spain, for understandable reasons, and in Great Britain, while the Irish revolutionary army acted, these powers were not so great, or control was much greater. I therefore believe that this bill should be accepted as the basis for the safety services laws that we have yet to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12879	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zarko Korac, and then a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12880	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I would say that this roof law at least shows some concept of how the position is seen, let's say a new position for security services in our country. I'll be brief, given the time. For one thing, we have not heard any reason why our country has abolished one of the existing security services, called the SID - Research and Documentation Service, or the foreign ministry’s intelligence service, which most of the countries of the world have. We haven't heard a single explanation for that. I'm interested, perhaps it's some reasonable argument, but I'm warning you that from now on, people who work in that service and people who do intelligence under diplomacy will be out of the law. So they will no longer be regulated by law, and from this moment on, that is, when the law is passed and entered into force, that service ceases to exist. So, we haven't got any reason for that, and I find that more than unusual. I would say that the key topic, which many before me have launched and which is the key topic of a democratic society, the control of the security service, is actually very uglyly defined by this law. I would like to remind you that this law has the concept that the entire control of the security service is being carried out by the Serbian Parliament, that is, its committee. This is a possible solution, although many countries did not go that way and many democratic countries had, of course, major problems with this control, because here are the opposite of two principles: the desire of the service to preserve its data and the secrecy of operations and the right and the need for democratic society to have insight into these operations. As for this solution here, where, for my vague reasons, it is said that the members of the Security Committee will not be controlled, I want to read you something that I think is very important. What is not to be asked, no one, meaning no one under this law can ask the following questions, and these questions are, in fact, the control of the work of the service: the identity of current and former service associates (especially former); data on members of the service with a hidden identity; data on third parties who could be damaged; data on methods of obtaining intelligence and security data, actions that are ongoing, etc. Dear People's MPs, how then do you manage the work of the service, when no one is allowed to ask these questions under this law? Not to be mistaken, he called Zivkovic's government for national security, but for state security. So that's, to me, much more appropriate, but it's a technical question of what it's called. It is said very clearly here that this council, which includes the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the interior minister, the minister of justice, the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army and the directors of the Security Service, is in fact giving political instructions to the service, the framework for its work and the service, which are also of political character. Dear People's MPs, read this law carefully and tell me who in this country is allowed to ask the question of service, which is most important for the citizens of Serbia, what are the actions in progress, concretely, on what basis are they determined and what measures and to which persons are they applied? The Security Service, our, or BIA, according to this law, and the two military security services have in fact no direct control anymore. They are controlled only by the director of the service and he answers the council politically and also to the Committee, who has no right to ask a question, you called it an open or closed session. To finish, I'm not saying that the solution is that any member of the Automated Security Committee has the right to ask for action in progress. But then one mixed body must be created, where perhaps the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia would delegate a small common body, let's say, as in England, which has three, four or five people, which would be the actual controller of the work of the Security Service. I have to tell you that such a body, for example, in England, has the right to have full insight into what actions are under way, according to which the funds are being used, etc. Here we come to a completely absurd situation that it's a matter of good will of the agency, or of someone who runs the agency, whether it's such information and to whom it's going to bring. Once again, it is said here that when it comes to direct surveillance, and it is the only body that has control, so, direct surveillance, Article 19, members of the Committee cannot ask for information from the Security Service... Read carefully what I can't ask, so, ladies and gentlemen of the people, tell me what else you want to know about the security service. You don't even have the right to ask for information about who was once a member of the service. The service here has been completely protected. This law is from that point of view ridiculous. As a man, I won't vote for him. You can see that from this moment on, if this law is passed, I am not talking about other members, which I have nothing against, no one in Serbia has the right to ask the director of the service to ask for basic information that is in progress. I said all this for something, so let me be personal. The man who runs the service today, when he came to that place in early 2004, drew up a list of people who were tapped, where I was. That's what I declare from the assembly pay phone, with every moral and material responsibility, and there will come a time when I will prove it to you. Of course, the group he put together was not led as political opponents of the regime, but was led as a group of people who wanted to bring down the constitutional order. So no more so-called. political opponents, but unfortunately, under hidden formulas were tapped by those people who were considered politically inadequate. Dear friends, does this law allow any control of such a character? I should believe the word that they will do so in accordance with the principles of democratic society. And the fact that the people who run this country are members of the council, I have nothing against this list, when you look closely, and these data can be hidden from them, because they only get some general information. Do you know what was the explanation of this action that lasted twice a month? She didn't get any results. The materials were destroyed recently, and everything was in accordance with the law. It was an eclectic abuse. I'm telling you that neither this law, unfortunately, prevents such abuses, because no one has the right to really look at what actions are being carried out and to what end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12881	The word has a minister in the Serbian government, Mr Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12882	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's discussion there have been a number of very interesting questions, although I must admit that I personally find it particularly intriguing what Mr. Korać said, and disturbing, given that Mr. Korać has brought some facts here that offend the democratic character of this society. It would be good if after the adoption of this law, using the instruments of this law, the Defence and Security Committee would try to verify that information, because if what Mr Korać said was true, and I do not believe that Mr Korać is knowingly false, it is possible that the wrong information that has come to him, but if it is true, it deserves absolute attention both to this Parliament and to the public, and to the appropriate measures. I really don't think anyone should be listening, or at least they shouldn't be listening, outside the legal procedure. When it comes to BIA, such a violation of the right to privacy is possible only if the President of the Supreme Court approves. I just want to live in the belief that in Serbia it is, but my desire to live in that belief doesn't necessarily mean that I think it is, but I hope it is. Let's start with the order of these other questions. Mr. Ivica Dacic, chairman of the Committee, has raised a number of interesting questions. I think his discussion was very good. I spoke with Mr. Dacic, the chairman of the Committee, and we agreed to amend the position of Article 3 tomorrow on the Committee of Amendments. It's a bill of law. I don't think "supervisory" corresponds to the term in that position, that we should take that standard of "democratic civilian control" and that under that standard we should also introduce the protectors of citizens and institutions that are now listed. We can handle this tomorrow on the board. Mr. Dacic asked who could listen and how. I think it's a question that the Committee should address, in the end, to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a secret. All of this is governed by the relevant regulations and it would be good for the Committee to have updated what powers the state authority has, on the basis of which law and if the right to the privacy of the person or the rights established by the Constitution is waived, to see what the procedure is and who approves such derogation. One MP asked why the president of the Supreme Court is not among the members of the council. Simply, in the nature of things, the President of the Supreme Court should not be a member of that council. The role of the President of the Supreme Court in these processes is regulated in Article 14. The BIA law, when we talk about this kind of business, and he, by the logic of things, shouldn't be part of this body. So the judicial authorities shouldn't be part of this body. He also asked why the D.A.'s office, not the D.A.'s representative. Because the D.A. is an incoherent organ. That's a very short and clear answer. The question has been asked what if these executives will not attend the session of the Committee of Parliament. Given the fact that it is, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, special organisations and administration bodies in the form of ministries, it is logical that this is subject to political responsibility. It is the same as when the minister says - I will not come anywhere; then it is political responsibility before this parliament. We also had objections in the previous session regarding ministers who did not appear before parliament or were not on board when some topics were discussed. So I think that's the answer to the question. There is no other way to resolve the issue of failure to attend meetings of the Committee of Government officials, i.e. officials responsible to the government, but that it is political responsibility. The question has been asked why the army was allegedly favored in this council, so the MP compared the police director to the Chief of Staff. Indeed, the military and the police are significantly different segments of society and cannot make such comparisons. One is armed forces, one is a civilian entity; therefore, the police and the military are completely different and cannot pull such a parallel. Several MPs have mentioned the issue of what will happen to the security services within the MIP. There's no doubt that this potential that exists in the MIP can continue to work on a series of jobs that he's been doing so far. The characteristics of the service are mainly to focus on the collection of classified data and to use so-called "secret" in its work. specific methods. In this regard, the services differ from other organs, services, organizations. A large part of the job and the Security Service and the Ministry of Information and Documentation of the MIP and was focused on public data, and the collection of public data, the analysis of these public data is not what marked the service, so that they will certainly carry out a significant part of their work. The issue of the use of specific funds and the collection of classified data will remain this time only in what they are services, which are two within the military, intelligence and security, and the BIA, which will, in fact, take over these tasks which it has done so far, which were partly in the power of the service within the MIP. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to finish. I'm done. These would be the answers to what's happened so far in this, I'd say, quite a constructive debate. I hope we continue at the same pace tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-04-0.u12883	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your constructive discussion. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. The word will be given by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
