ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8373	Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I have some sad news. We have just received information that MP Mika Vlaovic passed away this morning, so I ask you to pay our respects to the deceased MP for a moment of silence. Praise him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 120 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 90 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Predrag Umicevic, Vojislav Mihailovic and Natasa Vukkovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements TO THE GOVERNMENT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Vučić, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Mr Dejan Mirović, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Martinović, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Milisav Petronjević, Dusan Bajatović, Miletić Mihajlović, Rajko Baralić, Dr Bojan Milovanovic, Željko Vasiljevic, Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov and Srdjan Šajn. National MP Srdjan Shin, by letter of 1 October 2007, withdrew amendments he proposed to introduce new members of the law 1c, 1d, 1e, 7 and 12a. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Srdjan Shin has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added before article 1. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become part of the draft law. National MP Srdjan Shin has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added in front of article 1. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become part of the Bill's proposal on Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. I am informing the Members of the Constitutional Affairs Committee that the session will begin in five minutes and ask them to attend. The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8374	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, our fellow Member, Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, submitted the amendment, which reads: "In Article 2. The bill amending the existing Article 6 in item 1, after the words 'City', 'i' is replaced by 'an'', and after 'the city of Belgrade', the words 'public enterprises, institutions and public authorities' are added. The residence of my parliamentary group, the DSS, is that this amendment should not be accepted for the following reasons. Purpose of Article 2. The proposal for a government law is to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted during the previous year, under which the Government has the right and duty to suspend the exercise of a general act of the municipality and thus the City of Belgrade, if it considers that the general act is not in agreement with the Constitution or the law, and to initiate a procedure within five days to assess the constitutionality and legality of the general act. Here, in an absolutely correct way, our colleague, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, noticed that there are problems related to the adoption of acts of public enterprises and institutions, whose founder is local self-government. However, this whole matter is not a matter that needs to be governed by the Law on Government and the amendments to the Law on Government that are now in front of us. Simply, this matter, which is related to public authorities which have been transferred to local self-government, and therefore, by acts of local self-government, to public enterprises, should be subject to the regulation of the State Administration Act. Among other things, amendments and additions to the State Administration Act are in front of us and we will discuss them later. This amendment, for this very reason, should not be accepted, because the matter of this amendment should be contained in another law, so, amendments and additions to the State Administration Act, while this text contained in amendments to the Government Act should stand as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8375	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the government has proposed amendments to the Government Act with the aim of bringing it into line with the Constitution. When she put up with it, it was, first of all, to fill the time, considering it wasn't, and today there are no key laws that are needed to be passed in accordance with the Constitutional Law. In its proposal, the government provided for Article 2, which is obliged to suspend the implementation of a general act of the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law, a solution that takes effect when published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". ''The suspension decision shall cease to apply if the Government does not initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general act within five days of the publication of the decision. ''We have proposed an amendment which says that the government is obliged to suspend the general act of the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law, so we added, by amendment: 'as well as, immediately, and no later than five days, to initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general act'. Why? If we observe Article 192. The constitution, it sets out two government obligations, one -- that it is required to suspend the execution of a general act of the municipality that it considers to be incompatible with the Constitution or the law, and the other -- that within five days, it initiates a procedure to assess its constitutionality or legality. In the draft of this law, the government only took the first obligation, the second one did not put into the bill. That's why we're asking him to put the other one on. What does that mean? The government is obliged to suspend the general act, but is obliged to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. That's what's not in the bill. The draft law, paragraph 2, states that the suspension decision will cease to apply if the government does not initiate the procedure within five days, but does not mean that the Government is obliged to initiate the procedure, but rather, if it initiates the procedure. If he doesn't initiate the procedure, the solution will cease to apply. Her obligation is gone. As much as it is obliged to worry about the general acts being in accordance with the Constitution and the law, it is as much obliged as it is, and so it says in Article 192. The Constitution, to initiate a procedure for assessing its constitutionality and legality. The Government shall reply, when considering the amendment, that it is explicitly contained in the position of Article 2. The proposal that the solution ceases to apply if it does not initiate the procedure within five days. I repeat, it is true that the solution ceases to apply if it does not initiate the procedure within five days, but that does not mean that the government is obliged to initiate the procedure, but - unless it initiates the procedure. We insist that the government is required to initiate the procedure. Why such a precise insistence? First of all, we think it improves the text, doesn't disturb anything, nothing bothers the government, and it defines very precisely. This is because we have experience that when something is not precisely defined, the government interprets the law as it suits it, interprets the Constitution as it suits it. The best example is, it's already the end of October, and we don't have a Constitutional Court in Serbia yet, we don't have a Constitutional Court law, we don't have a Constitutional Court Act, we don't have a Constitutional Court Act, we don't have a Constitutional Court Act, we don't have a Constitutional Court Act, we don't have a Constitutional Court Act and so on. Here, it's the end of October, we still don't have the law on the President of the Republic, on foreign affairs, on security, on the military, on defence, on the territorial organisation of Serbia, on local self-government, on local elections, on the capital -- Belgrade, not to talk about laws governing the matter of the judiciary and the prosecution. What's the consequence? As a result, we have several major cities in Serbia that have, in fact, power that is not in line with the law. We mentioned these days in the Serbian Parliament that ten municipalities in Serbia are under temporary measures. That means - outside the Constitution, outside the law, outside the law, that it's the citizens who will determine who will be their authority. Five municipalities have been since 2006. Here, now the City of Belgrade joins them. All witnesses are that for 15 days we have been warning in the Serbian Parliament of illegal, non-business behaviour in the City Assembly, during the election of the president of the City Assembly and deputy president of the City Assembly. The government, or the competent ministry, is silent, although it is mandatory for the competent ministry to, in accordance with Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government sees the situation, warns the City Assembly to repeat the procedure if it does not do so within a month, to annul decisions. What's going on? There is still no answer, because the government, the competent ministries, interprets the laws in its own way. When we warned about those municipalities, and the large municipalities are at stake, Uzice, Leskovac, Valjevo, not to list further, that it is not good to have temporary authorities, that elections should be called, then they said from the government that elections would be called under the constitutional law. At the same time, we are witnessing these days that negotiations are being held in the ruling majority, that even it is changing and that this deadline should be extended. A similar story with the Belgrade City Assembly, where in an illegal, non-business manner, the Committee on Local Self-Government asked the Ministry to take measures in accordance with Article 111. Law on local self-government. Invented function of the deputy in d.o.b. The mayor, who's not in the Law of Local Self-Government, not to mention. These are all the reasons, the examples that I have cited, which confirm the correctness of this amendment, i.e. the requirement to be in Article 2. The proposal to amend and supplement the Government Act defines the government's obligations much more precisely, so that it doesn't have the space to interpret the law as it will. I repeat, the Constitution obliges the government twice. Once - that it is required to suspend the act from execution, and second - that it is obliged to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court within five days. On the other hand, there's actually no one to initiate the procedure, because the Constitutional Court doesn't have one, which says that, apparently, the order of law is confused here. However, as much as it is required to suspend the act, it is so obliged to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. If this is the form that remains, it is true that if the government does not initiate the procedure, the solution ceases to be valid, but it does not oblige the government to initiate the procedure, but only says - if it does not initiate the procedure. For these reasons, we have proposed an amendment supplementing this provision with the obligation to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court within five days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8377	National MP Slobodan Maras, for the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Rajko Đuric, as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8378	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, reporting in connection with Article 226. A question for Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica - what is the work of the MUP and BIA? Is it their job, or are they responsible for not being arrested for war crimes? Are they responsible for the arrest of the remaining indictees for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic? Are they responsible for the bombing against the journalist's list "Today" not yet enlightened, as well as for the fact that Mr. Miskovic, the owner of the "Delta Holding" who sent an open threat to state authorities, politicians, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Competition Protection Commission, was at the reception a few days ago? A man who had made an open threat two days earlier to all the citizens of this country that they had to keep quiet about him and his business was a distinguished guest at the bia day celebration. To whose benefit do the BIA and the MUP work? Is it in the interest of the citizens, or in the interest of one company and one man? It is clear to all of us that we live in a totalitarian society, for the simple reason that two of the most important institutions in this society were the MUP and BIA. Please, Minister, you are from the DS, that, along with your DS colleagues, you should start the responsibility of the BIA Police and Chief of Police Radet Bulatovic to seek their resignations. It's definitely clear that there's a lot of crime, businesses and services here. Every state has its own service, only here is the state. I ask you to stop it and ask you to, together with your DS colleagues, initiate responsibility for the Minister of Police, the Chief of BIA, because they are not working in the interests of the citizens, but in the interest of a man, or in the interest of an oligarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8379	The word is from MP Rajko Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8380	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104 and 226. In this dear country of ours is spoken of in the ugliest way about the President of the Republic and Prime Minister of the Government. Of course, I understand if I, too, at the sessions of this assembly and in the newspaper, are exposed to disgusting lies. But as the MP, Mr. Chairman, I must remind you that at the session of 15 October 2007, the SRS MP, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, said he would bring a picture that shows me with the SS, 'in their uniform'. That disgusting lie, given by the words of the famous Kant, "black is the stain" on the human nature of the one who said it, and he said it again yesterday in "Kuru". Unfortunately, to date, no one has reported from the SRS Parliamentary Group, although that faceless lie only harms her, not me. However, for now I will not draw any conclusions, but I remind you of old wisdom - lies and the one who silences the truth. Mr. Chairman, please read the stenogram from the session of 15 October 2007 and find the appropriate measure for Mr. Damjanović in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I am handing you a statement by Aleksandar Jovanovic, the father of the murdered Dusan Jovanovic, to whom the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, revealed the memorial plate. As you'll be able to see from this statement, it's construction for a necrophilia class. Danilo Kish wrote "The Hour of Anatomy," and now this is the building for "The Hour of Necrophilia." Article 226. My voters, including journalists, my colleagues, have asked me to ask the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Justice the following question. Are there any among the MPs of the National Assembly who have been held responsible for the crime of Article 113? Criminal law? If there are any, the famous Hegel said, "And in the greatest criminal there is a grain of man," please report for themselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8381	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, instead of dealing with priority affairs and obligations in our country, Mr. Rajko always mentions some ethics and morality here. However, I am obliged to give this audience some statements and something you do not know. Mr. Rajko Djuric simply escaped. He made his program that this state was fascist, Nazi, that someone wanted to kill him, that someone wanted to shoot him, and with such a repertoire, orchestrated, went to Germany. In Germany, he told all the worst about our country, that the civil rights of the minority people were not respected here, and that there was a dictatorship, that he was threatened by liquidation. I don't think that's true. Not only do I think, but I know it's not true. In our country, no one has ever threatened anyone. This country is democratic for all peoples and peoples. Mr. Rajko Djuric, when you talk about morality, tell me where are the billions and 200 million Swiss francs that you raised for the Holocaust of Serbia and the world, not Serbia, but the world? This is the biggest scam you've ever made when you were president of the World Roma Organization. For four years, you didn't want to show up anywhere, and you didn't want to call anyone. You robbed the Roma people, not Serbia, but the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8383	Please don't use the term "steal" etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8384	Will you let me? When he talked about me the worst, you let him. Please don't do that. Under criminal and material responsibility, I claim to the honourable MPs, what you're saying here, that I've never killed anyone, nor been responsible for murder. Be clear and brief. You know who the killer is Roma and who killed the woman. Don't speak in two ways, and I won't say, out of respect for that man, and I don't need to speak for who he is. You need to tell me who it is. Secondly, you're talking about morality. You know that when this country was bombed by NATO enemies and the aggression of the world and Europe, Mr. Rajko Djuric, were in the Vatican kissing the laps and hands of Pope Paul II, that you were hanging out with the SS, we all know that in this assembly, Guenter Grass, who himself admitted to being a Nazi. The one who hangs out with the Nazis, I don't know what other name I'd give. You should know that you've been hanging out with Havel, who's the first signator of bombing our country, killing our children, destroying our resources. You're a man too, a moral. There's no morals with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8385	You're out of time, Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8386	Thank you. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8387	The word has been given by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Gojko Radic and Srdjan Sajn, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. 225th and 226, I want to inform you of an initiative. I have been visited by representatives of seven fighting organisations and organisations dealing with the traditions of the Liberation Wars of the Republic of Serbia, which are located in the rooms of the Serbian House. Unfortunately, wrongly called, because that building is called the War Home. What's the point of this problem? The point of this problem is that the resolution minister has ordered all these organizations to be thrown out, i.e. to leave the premises at home. However, it would not be so terrible if this building was owned by the Serbian Army. Unfortunately, this building is an asset built between the two world wars for warriors, donors and contributions of all participants, above all, of the First World War and those of Serbian citizens who then had a very positive relationship with the sacrifice these people gave to Serbia and the Serbian people. Unfortunately, today we have quite the opposite situation. Some are trying to minimize these people and their role. I want to tell you that these organizations and representatives of the warriors from the previous wars have submitted a request to the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia for the return of this property, or for restitution. Here I have this document showing that the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia confirms that it is in accordance with Article 5(2). The law on the registration and registration of the seized property, 'The Official Messenger', that and that, and by taking into account the records, the reported assets that are held in the case of this Directorate, the certificate is issued, etc. I just want to ask, under Article 226, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia to stop the pressure on these organizations and wait for the adoption of a new law on restitution, as you can be sure that this building will be returned to whoever it is intended for, and these are warriors from previous wars. I also ask the Minister of Culture, whose responsibility is to keep the register of officials and legates, to assist these organizations and to prevent their illegal eviction from these premises. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8389	The People's Messenger Gojko Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8390	My fellow Members, I'm advertising an article. 225, 226. When we talked about the government, in principle, and now, when it comes to amendments, it is obvious that what our MPs mentioned on the ground is that the Democratic Party is a 'yellow company'.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8391	Mr. Radic, watch your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8392	We in Subotic have a big problem. All relevant organisations in Subotica have been raising rebellion over the excavation and opening of mines by Subotica, the collapse of houses, etc., and we have stopped it once by action, because it was illegal. While we were leading the action, Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic worked very hard to issue certain solutions to individuals, private persons, for digging sand. We know that Subotica is making a "ipislon" leg, a detour towards Kelebia, and that's where millions and millions of cubics of sand will be taken out. It wouldn't be a problem to open mines, which people will hire, and what the sand will dig up, the problem arises that no one controls this, no one charges, no one benefits. I'm expressing a certain suspicion that individuals, in order to betray these solutions, took the money, put it in their pocket, without any cover, without trace. I ask the question of Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic - who gave him the right, i.e. On the basis of which law gave private persons the right to dig up sand on multiple plots in Subotica, this socially good, if we know that private property is only 50 centimeters on the surface? We know how the mines open, and we're having trouble breaking down houses around these properties. The first solution was issued in June, the second solution -- in July, the third solution -- in August. Solutions have been issued to two natural persons and one company of action. The natural faces are Stjepanović Bozo from Sudotica and Stokic Budimir from Subotica, and the Action Society - "Voj-put" AD from Subotica. Gentlemen, this is not the first time that ministers from the Democratic Party are texting citizens and sending private correspondence and solutions. This is in a private arrangement, no one can betray someone socially well in their possession, use it without paying any debts. We're damaged here as a municipality of Subotics. It is not clear to me whether the Democratic Party and all the relevant factors that take part in the government in Subotica have raised this noise in order to ban all, even those who have privately issued and drawn sand on their land, to prepare the ground for these people, these individuals, or the "Voj-put" so that they can excavate, to earn huge money from social property. Subotica municipality doesn't get any money from this. The state doesn't take any of this. The sand is excavated without control, without record, without anything. It is not only excavated at these locations, because solutions have been obtained, by private connections, by Minister Milosavljevic, but by digging and spreading, there is no control. I call on the Serbian government to suspend these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8393	Thank you, Mr. Radic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8394	I am addressing the Rules of Procedure of Members 225 and 226. Minister, I thought that today I would only commend you for having called the elections and personally engaged in it, but I have to ask you one question and ask you, as a resolute minister, to allow the Serbian Parliament to get the decision of the Saint Municipality Assembly regarding the fact that certain categories of population in the readmission process cannot return to the municipality of Sent. I haven't read that decision, however, I've received different information. In order for me, as an MP, to be able to make a valid statement about this, I ask you to provide us with that information. Also, let me make my position of the Roma Party very clear about it. I am in favour of respecting the Constitution, I am in favour of not violently changing the national structure of any municipality, I am in that it does not violently change the structure of the national population of Serbia as a whole, but I am not for it to be someone in its decisions, if it is readmission, it says - this applies only to Roma, and this does not apply to all people in the readmission process. Still, today I can't comment on this whole situation because I don't have that decision. I would ask you to get it, and then you, as a resolute minister, and the Government, within your jurisdiction, as well as the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, make it very clear what we want in the reading and what we don't want. If it is true that there is a different approach to members of different national communities, I will go from this speaker to next session, and by letter to call international organisations and say that they do not realize the readmission process. But if any citizen, regardless of his nationality, who is a Serbian citizen, can't choose where he will live on his return from abroad, then I don't think it has anything to do with democracy or anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8395	National MP Vladan Batic has his word on the matter of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8396	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. As a national MP, I request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, from the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and from the Government, in accordance with the preamble to the Constitution, under which all state authorities are obliged to represent and protect Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, in all internal and external political relations. Please give me back my time. What exactly is this about? Ladies and gentlemen, a week ago, the Serbian Negotiating Team, with a few ministers from the government, in Brussels. has received a document from the negotiating troika, representatives of the European Union, Russia and America. They hid the document from the eyes of the local public. The document is a platform for independent Kosovo, and everyone is quiet and everyone is trying not to discuss it. The Assembly's agenda should be one point, when the government already has no sense of responsibility and has not resigned, and this is a debate on Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Well, the document says, and it was agreed by a Russian representative, who will protect Serbia and ensure that Kosovo remains its own forever, therefore, Harchenko, that Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer be physically present in Kosovo and Metohija. The document says -- no more administrative role for Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. The document says -- Kosovo will join international financial institutions on its own in the future. That means the IMF, the World Bank, etc. Only a state can do that. The crucial thing in the document is the provision that Serbia and Kosovo will go separate ways towards Euro-Atlantic integration. And it's clear to the laymen what it means. The public must not be deceived. You can't lie to people. Then it is a crown argument that the document does not say that Kosovo will be independent. It doesn't say that it's raining out there now, or it's raining, or it's day, and it's day. Therefore, content is important and must not be kept silent, Parliament should discuss this. A session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee is scheduled for tomorrow. A few days ago, I insisted that all accredited journalists of the Serbian Parliament be invited to the session. No, they're not. Then does she make sense? I asked the Committee's secretary to inform the president of the board yesterday, and I asked to speak with him. There was no answer. So this is an extremely important and serious thing. With all due respect to the agenda and these points that we have today, this is incomparably more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8397	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8398	Mr Albianic, Mr Markovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have also appeared on the basis of the possibility provided by Article 226(3) and (4). Although I do not agree often with Mr Batic, what he said will be compatible with what I am about to say now. Two days ago, three of our ministers had two different missions in the United States. The first is for Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to be named the world's most successful finance minister in 2006, God forgive me, and this second one is very important for Serbia. I would ask Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, that, if she considers it important, in consultation with the Committee members and others, she will schedule a session of the Committee, which will be dedicated exclusively to the report by the finance minister and Deputy Prime Minister Djelic. Thank you, I had no doubt. National MPs and the public of Serbia must receive accurate information about what actually happened in the United States. It's not known that all governments, so-called. The governments of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, and the Government of Ramush Haradinaj, and the Government of Bajram Rexhepi, and the Government of Agim Ceku, wanted to serve a debt amounting to $110,000 a day, which refers to the entities that raised the loan from Kosovo and Metohija. So, it is not a dispute here whether or not they wanted to serve this debt, but whether the consent of our vice-president and our ministers to this, with the reason that Serbia is discharging international financial obligations, now defines Kosovo and Metohija as an independent, international financial and state institution. This issue is very important, so that it would not happen by chance if, due to 250m dollars and another 650 coming in, the state of Serbia gave up positions that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the state of Serbia. So, I'm very serious. This issue has been the most serious political issue in the past few months. We don't know what platform these three people were staying with in the U.S. and whether it was based on a government decision. If so, please Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, this is a parliamentary question, to answer me - what platform and did any platform of the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopt in this regard, and did these three high-ranking state officials have such powers in the United States? Thank you. I'll get back to you on the next question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8399	The word has a folk MP Gojko Radic, and then Jovan Damjanović, Jovan Palalic and Rade Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8400	Considering the time has passed, I haven't been able to ask a question. I question the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Slobodan Milosavljević, Minister of Agriculture – what are the merits of these two natural persons and the company of shareholders for the state when they got to use the mineral wealth, the excavation without compensation, without any record? Let me just keep going, since I'm gonna use the rest of my time to take advantage of Mr. Secretary's presence for local self-government. You know what, it's not this decision, I'm listening to what one MP just said about events in the municipality of Saintie and these decisions, it's not unique. You, as the Democratic Party in Mali Ijoš, helped to vote two or three months ago this decision - that exiled and evaded faces and faces from the readmissions cannot buy abandoned houses on the territory of Mali Ijoš municipality. Such a decision has been made now in Senta. You who are full of the mouth of Europe and democracy are now voting for these decisions and helping to make such decisions under these European laws, the laws you adapt to Europe. It's an example of the small ijosh municipality. In Subotica, it was tried to make this decision through Parliament. However, thanks to the great urgency of the SRS committee and the talks with other committees, we were able to prevent such a decision and in Subotica, it failed by two votes and was not made. There have even been attempts in these parliaments to put pressure on the province's parliament, to make a decision like this. That is what the proposals for agendas in local parliaments said, and it is impossible for Minister Markovic not to be familiar with such things because his party took part in it. Here, I set a concrete example, in Little Ijos, so let him deal with whether these decisions can go through and whether they are in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8401	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as morals and ethics are concerned, it's important that a man owns them, and when we speak, please don't count this on me in time, what Rajko Djuric quoted...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8403	That counts in time, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8404	... He said, "After the death of Socrates, all men, regardless of nation, race and religion, are divided into Socrates and pigs." Socrates had his vision, he had his ethics, his morals. He didn't steal his people, his nation, he didn't rob, he didn't lie. You did it, and day and day in the assembly you do it. Now you see, Mr. Rajko Gjuric, who has no ethics, no morals, whether you're divided into Socrates or pigs, as you wrote here. That's what you said, not me. Second, you say - I didn't commit, I didn't steal, I didn't lie. He stole, he lied, and if you're going to serve, we'll see. That's why your party's political friends gave you mistrust and today is a press conference at the Media Center, where they're looking for your shift, which they voted on. Your ethics and morals are that when you buy on behalf of your party, politically, you buy a bathrobe coat. That's terrible. I'm just gonna say this, you're making a mess, not just in the state, but your speech goes out of state. You're a wrecker. You are the one who makes a divide in this country, in the Roma community, who divide the Roma into those Orthodox and those Muslim religions. When a ship with Muslim families was submerged, you didn't say a word, when they raped our wedding procession, our bride in Djakovica, you didn't say anything. You're the one who's making something in our country that doesn't suit you, which is breaking the Roma people. But the citizens, both the Serbs, and the Roma, noticed it, so they demoted you, in a way that was not fitting to the man you represented here, so they voted your mistrust. Next, you're talking about "Mouse Comer." I'm asking you, did the Mouse Comer fund me? My party wasn't financed by anyone. My party is funded by the Constitution and the law of this state. If he's a criminal and a drug dealer, why are you hanging out with drug dealers and criminals? You're just like them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8405	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Palalic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, and then Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8406	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Constitution, in which the preamble was made clear that all state authorities are obliged to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, especially in view of the opportunities related to the threat of our territory in the province of Kosovo and Metohija. This congregation has repeatedly, through its decisions, established a single state policy that stems from this preamble of the Constitution and the very spirit of the Constitution that has been adopted. At no time, no state body, nor the Negotiating Team, has deviated from the decisions of the National Assembly, from its attachment to the preservation of the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia throughout its territory. We have heard here that, in a situation where negotiations on Kosovo's status and Metohija are being held, one of the state's authorities violated this preamble and tried to conduct a different policy than that adopted in the Assembly. The negotiation process and the fight to preserve Kosovo and the Serbia-based Metohija are not easy. We are all aware of the pressures on Serbia to give up the acts of territory that are most important to it, the acts of territory in which its spirituality rests, where its statehood is founded and where all of ours are related to it. We know what a fight will be. In this negotiating process, our negotiating team came out yesterday with its clear stance, resulting from decisions by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where it is firmly concerned that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. It will never happen that Serbia will ever accept any option and any agreement that will allow another Albanian state to be created in its territory. Be assured that Russia, which has been very consistently defending the principles and views of international law and basic international acts throughout this negotiation process, will not do so. Here is only a question - who has the will, who has the desire, who has the consistency to continue to fight, regardless of the circumstances, regardless of the difficulties, regardless of the pressures. In that sense, be assured that no state body will ever accept that Kosovo and Metohija be independent, well, I am convinced, not even the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8407	The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic and then by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8408	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction to what I'm about to say, I'm going to quote Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is this constitution that we have recently adopted: 'The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination shall be prohibited, directly or indirectly, on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, etc. I quoted this for the public and citizens of Serbia and for something that happened recently, we can say, a few hours ago. Mrs. Snezana Bankovic was replaced in Knic only because she decided to deal with politics, be socially engaged and, in addition, be a mother. It is not only a drastic violation of the country's constitutional principles, it is the greatest sin we can do today towards Serbia, as a state, when we are facing, in my opinion, the biggest problem, the greatest torment, something that has long been referred to as the white plague in public. Statistics show that in 25 years, there will be 800,000 people in Serbia less than today. If we send this message to young women who choose to be active in everyday life, in political life, etc., and to be mothers, I'm afraid it won't be 800,000, but a much larger number. Serbia is dying, and we allow things like this to happen to our eyes. So I ask all state authorities to take every measure to bring these 17 people, who are not even aware of what they have done, to be brought to knowledge and justice. This is not how it can be done in Serbia, if we want to ensure its future and its biological recovery. I would ask a question, Mr. Vice President, to you and the President of the Assembly, when will finally come to the agenda the law I proposed four years ago, so I repeated it this spring, which is called - the proposal for a law on material protection of motherhood and the biological restoration of the population of the Republic of Serbia? Today we are fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. I am afraid that if we do not worry about the young generations and the restoration of the population of the Republic of Serbia, for which decade we will fight to keep some other territories in the composition of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8409	The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and then the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8410	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the move of the agenda Thursday and your desire to support Fidel Castro, who also escaped from his own sister Juanita Castro and daughter, Alinda Fernandez, was not enough time and the agenda was moved, the point of enlightenment. I am advertising a violation of Article 226 and, in accordance with that provision, I ask that the Minister of Education begin to interfere at last in his work and try to get on the path of the Accreditation Commission, which has made full anarchy and complete chaos in the area of higher and higher education. So, I want to tell you that the Accreditation Commission, deciding on the fulfilment of the conditions of certain higher schools for obtaining accreditation, firstly, has deafened the evaluation of peer reviewers. The illustrations for the work of, in the Belgrade higher school, the reviewer's assessment was 9, at one school in the interior - 8.33, so that, completely flat-rate, the accreditation commission would say it was a grade 5. When she went to check the compliance of higher schools and passed her own inspection supervision, the accreditation committee never worked in the fullest case, she never had three members. By law, she had to have three members and an authorised representative of the Ministry of Education and Sports. However, they decided who could, and who couldn't get the accreditation, completely flat-rate, odkatically, in the brittle composition, in the octroized composition. Many things have been falsified. Furthermore, the accreditation committee has violated the provisions of Article 16. The law on higher education, and some of its members abused the situation. She was obliged to deliver all the records, with remarks she had on certain higher schools, to those schools, so that they could plead on them. None of the 27 higher schools received any records. Fourthly, by her letter to the National Council for Higher Education, which was the Commission’s authority, she cancelled obedience, disobeyed the views of the National Council, which most of the accreditation decisions were annulled and returned. Finally, fifthly, she sent a letter to the ministry, which in some way resigned and, sixthly, all the cases with complaints forwarded to the National Council without having seen them at all. In addition, some members of the accreditation committee are in court...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8411	Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8412	I'm done. ... In Switzerland, for stealing patents. Therefore, I ask that the minister, in agreement with the University of Serbia's Conference, stand in the way of the unauthorized work of the accreditation commission and that it be resolved, or replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8413	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, then Rajko Djuric, Jovan Damjanovic and Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8414	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 225 paragraphs 3 and 4. Just two days ago, I spoke to seven different people in Chačka and Ivanjica, or subjects, and I want to ask some questions and let the public know what the problems of ordinary people in Serbia look like, because there is either silence of the administration, or unconscious treatment in various state institutions and institutions. How is it possible, for example, that the Chačka Court cannot determine the obligation to pay for alimony, nor the level of alimony to one unconscious father, who, by the way, has a company and a dozen employees, performs various works in cities, drives a good car, lives in a good place, has apartments in Vrnjačka Banja? The court respects his documentation all the time, that he's an orphan without a father and a mother, that it's all led to other people and that he can't win a few thousand dinars a month for his daughter. So when one such procedure lasts four and a half years, only two things are possible, or that someone is bribed, or that it has some other personal motive to leave one girl without five or six thousand months of alimony. This isn't about money. It's about something else. How will the Institute of Fruiting in Cacca prove that as a user, and not the owner, land must now, in this process of any "guilty Drina" that needs to be corrected, returned or paid by the country to former owners, and thus that the state of Serbia is left without the most prestigious fruit institute in Europe? Is that the interest of the Serbian state? Is there money in this budget, which last year had surpluses, so Mr Dinkic won this huge prize of 100,000 euros, to move forward, to pay for a few hectares in Cačka, to the Institute of Fruiting, which gave several hundred varieties of best apples, crayons, peaches, raspberries, etc. In the world, it doesn't stop? I'll stop here. It would have taken me a long way to get all that. So we expect the state to do what its clerks are paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8415	The word has been made by MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8416	Dear Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am extremely sorry that we are wasting our precious time on nothing. I'm reporting for a warning from the famous Negoss - "Storm catches a lion in the beaks." The citizens of our country and the public know how to judge what anyone says. Of course, I am very grateful to Mr Jovan Damjanovic, because he is, as he put it, an obvious example for the citizens and the public of Serbia that we have in the parliamentary benches. I believe our citizens will know how to learn the right lessons. I'll finish up next. We're the same age, 1947, and he and I. You know, there's one historical lesson, between people who have been defending the truth for 40 years and studying the truth and people who lie for 40 years, there's no possibility of dialogue. Other things, for my own dignity, I don't want to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8417	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8418	Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer answer for Mr. Rajk Djuric's line, and being us the same year, that's fine. I've never lied. I was a successful businessman here and in Croatia. About 19, 20 years I worked in Croatia and I had my own hotel, my restaurants, I had the most famous souvenir shop with handicrafts and I knew the whole of Europe. I'm here today in Europe. I have no exile from Europe, and Europe does not deny me the right to enter it. You, Mr. Djuric, have been expelled by Germany and given you a ban. Djuric, I wrote to SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica and the president of the Federal Assembly to approve you of your entry into Yugoslavia. Say, is that right? Me and Bajram Haliti wrote to you. You thanked me. As much as that has contributed, I see you've come here, but you're doing something that doesn't go in the interest of this country and these citizens. I'm just gonna say this, I don't do anything to stink around me, and whoever's lying, who's talking here, he's gonna stink; we're gonna see who's gonna smell out of this National Assembly room in the end. I ask you, Mr. Rajko Djuric, is it a shame, is there ethics and morals, that a ten-year-old dead child is made of a record, like you did? Did you write your father's name, like you said? It doesn't say the name of a father and a mother. It says "Dad and Mom" on the first plate. The school dedicated the record to him because he was a student of that elementary school. You've put on a record from Roma Serbia's Union. What does the Union of Roma Serbia have to do with it, I guess Roma should be, not your political party?- I'm sorry. You're looking for points, it's embarrassing, it's horrible, over a dead child. As an honorary citizen of Zemuna, in 1997, I passed the money at 2,000 marks to my family, Mr. Rajko Djuric, and I don't know what you passed on, you take everything for yourself, nothing for another. My respect for Mr. Tadic, we have no objection to any political party, no representative of any party at all, except the political options we can discuss and discuss, but your morale is to use both Mr. President and a dead child for your points. And your points are visible, because you will exit this assembly through the will of your party and its members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8419	Natasa Jovanovic's MP, on the amendment to Milisav Petronijevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radosavljevic, I would like to welcome you, since you are my fellow citizen, for the first time in the Assembly, but you can see that there are even more difficult cases here than in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, whose up until recently been a councilman. As for Mr Petronivic's amendment, a few words about the disagreement of this member of the law, which you have proposed, with a recently quoted member of the Constitution by Mr Petronivic. Supervisory of the work of the municipality, Article 192. The constitution, Mr. Albianic, I will quote and ask you to include that time, says: "The government is obliged to suspend the execution of a general act of the municipality which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure within five days to assess its constitutionality or legality. The government can, under the conditions of a certain law, disband the municipality" etc. What happens when it dissolves? It's called a temporary organ. When the people following the meetings of the National Assembly first heard of Article 192. The constitution, to quote it multiple times, explain it and ask for it to be done, I mean for the first time since the constitution was declared by Mitrovica last year? Just before last week, when a scandal took place and against the law, the anti-constitutional, illegal choice of Zoran Alimpic in place V.d. Mayor of Belgrade. At a time when we're discussing this, we're meeting the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We will see the epilogue later and how the president of Mr Dulic's Parliament, who himself yesterday, when he gave an interview or a statement on a daily newspaper, will admit that we were radicals right when we said 10 days ago that he and Minister Markovic were both dealing with hypotheses. Here's the thing. It is that the whole story, our opposition to such an faceless violation of the law and the Constitution in the selection of Alimpic, is the invention of the function of V.D. Deputy Mayor, the only excessive response Mr Dulic and Mrs Kolundzi were -- you know, since the elections for the local authorities remained less than six months, so, what's the difference, broke the law and the Constitution. Of course, they didn't say that, but they think in themselves, the prey is there, the DSS has settled down, we'll keep it up, but Alimpic will do everything we tell him. It's good for the DSS, they're too happy with the DS, and for the Constitution and for the law, no one cares. Oliver Dulic was called to the Constitutional Law and said, "By the end of 2007, according to the Constitutional Law, I must discuss the elections." In doing so, he spoke exclusively of the presidential elections. Only when this issue with Alimpic came up, did you start talking, in general, about some hypothetical term of calling elections for local self-government authorities. I wonder by what laws. Mr. Radosavljevic, you know very well, just like Minister Markovic, that these laws are not prepared. Maybe they're in some kind of design. Yesterday I listened to Milan Markovic, who spoke in "Belgrade Program", that DS has one concept, will see what, whether it will have a majority, the law on local elections will be made. So, all the arguments that Oliver Dulic tried to defend last week fell into the water yesterday, and today it's quoted by all the media, including state television, when he said he didn't know himself, and we know it's physically impossible, when local elections will be called. Why should we even do that? This problem is cumulative in nature, first because of what is being said here, in a member of Mr Petronivic, where he reacts to what the government should do within five days, not only should it suspend the implementation of a general act, but to initiate, necessarily, in accordance with Article 192, a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality and legality. Not only did you not do this, but I think it's been three weeks since the illegal election of Alimpic to the post of alleged V.D. Belgrade's mayor, but the government did not react by suspending, let alone initiate the procedure. Where to start, in front of which Constitutional Court? So the state is in a chaotic state. The president of the Serbian Parliament, the most responsible for not respecting the law, I don't only know what he is now defending himself against the competent assembly committee, which, within 15 days after the mayor's death was elected to the post, had to call direct elections for mayor, dealt with, just like all of you in the DS and DSS, who raced in statements, defending what was undefenseful, by when elections will be held. Yesterday he admitted that he didn't know it, and he said well, he made a statement to Evening News, today everyone quotes it "if DS and DSS agree, then I won't do it within the prescribed deadline under the Constitutional Law, if there is a two-thirds majority to change the constitutional law". You're going back to the slippery terrain, both of you. For everything you're trying to do, regardless of what you think you're very powerful and strong, you must always ask Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS. He warned Tomislav Nikolic, president of our parliamentary group, a month ago, Oliver Dulic, before this scandal happened with Alimpic, in what state the state is in, and that he does not play these things privately, at the sign of Tadic and these losers, Saper, Krstic, or whoever advises him, so Dulic reported, "now act like this, now like this". It is not a call for the election of Tadic and Dulic's private matter and it is not his private matter for any media, although he is the president of the Assembly who can make statements, but he gives them as statements of political nature. We need to seriously talk about it here. Then how do we even know that you will ever respect a member of the law like this without this provision that had to be incorporated from the Constitution, that the government is obliged to initiate an assessment of constitutionality and legality, if you would not respect the law written like this? Isn't that right, Mr. Petronievich? If only such a member had stayed without this intervention, they would not have done anything, because it has been many days and they have not suspended this illegal act on the election of Zoran Alimpic. It's a pointless story. So we're waiting for the Constitutional Affairs Committee to finish, but be sure it doesn't go that easily. I'll take this opportunity, since you're here, Mr. Radosavljevic, don't think it's incorrect, you can't answer me, because you're in that position, but tell Mr. Minister. Yesterday, in Kragujevac, I devoted the entire Serbian Radical Party press conference to the issue. It is, and you are a witness to the fact that two years ago, the City Assembly adopted the statute on the definition of the five city municipalities of the town of Kragujevac. As we do not view things as Dulic and as non-serious politicians, the moment the conditions are obtained, when the following laws are passed and the elections are discussed, the deadline for the constitution begins, in a legal-formal sense, those five municipalities, because they should be elected by 25 council members, except in the municipality of Stragari, where 15 council members are elected. Essential conditions should be created in an infrastructure sense to begin to function in these municipalities, so you should intervene as a competent ministry and give the final warning to Veroljub Stevanovic, the mayor of Kragujevac, to take into account and create conditions for these municipalities to start operating in a few months, or in the first half of 2008. So, we've been playing something, we've made a statute that, you know, in certain provisions is unconstitutional, and even then the government of the Republic of Serbia, the previous Kostunica, hasn't suspended such an act, and that's something that's waiting for us and what's a big problem; it's just a bunch of problems, and no one's solving them. That's why we Serbian radicals here, to warn you in time, not to grab your head later -- we didn't know, we couldn't. It's more like you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8421	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8422	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported that I am talking about an amendment submitted by my distinguished colleague, Milisav Petronijevic. I think that this one, and the amendment to the previous member, is extremely important. This matter, which is regulated by the Government Act, and this part that is characterized and brought into line with the Constitution, is considered extremely important because it provides for constitutionality and legality, a clear hierarchy of legal acts, but also the hierarchy of state bodies that care for constitutionality and legality. The whole text of the amendment and addition of the Law on Government is, in fact, the alignment of the key provisions of the Law, which was adopted in 2005 with the new constitution and in the largest part of this bill on amendments to the Law on Government and the paper were incorporated. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, the debate comes down to the effect of sanctions against the Government of the Republic of Serbia if, in the event of suspension from the execution of certain general acts of local self-government, it does not initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, here, within a short period of five days. Of course, the question here is also how do we see this position of the 2nd member who is changing the amendments to the Law, which is due to the government's inaction with the procedure before the Constitutional Court. The result is that it literally ceases to be a solution to the suspension of execution and, in that case, in the event of inaction, the authority and integrity of the government collapses. Because if, in one case, she found that there were reasons to suspend one general act of local self-government, and she did not find it appropriate, for various reasons, to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, her decision would cease to apply. Then the question of the government, its authority, the reason why it did it, and thus, in some ways, there was recognition that, possibly, the general act that had been suspended, in fact, by one government decision was legal. I think that the solution given in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act has a very clear sanction for the government's inaction with the procedure before the Constitutional Court. The deadline was reduced to five days, and the government, literally, must react, and its, possibly, inaction, second-guessing, is only a recognition that it was wrong when it made a solution to suspending the execution of a single general act. I think that, if the aim of the norm is to observe the objective of language, it is to make it clear to the government what is its true position on the issue of a solution to the suspension of execution. In that sense, the solution in the Law is good and precise, quite enough not to change the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8423	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, has a word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8424	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a few sentences in favour of the amendment of counterpart Petronijevic, i.e. the necessity to adopt this amendment. The amendment, you heard, reacted to Article 2. It's a bill of law. The position of Article 2 provides that the government is required to suspend the implementation of a general act of the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law, a solution that takes effect when published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment suggested adding here and saying that the government is under obligation immediately, and no later than five days, to initiate the procedure before the Constitutional Court. Why do we think this is necessary? First of all, this Article 2 is, Maltene, literally rewritten Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is, of course, fine, is not an issue, but it is interesting then, when it is already prescribed Article 192, why it is not prescribed and what is very important. Is he who prescribed tired, so he hated to copy these few words from the Constitution, or is it something else, which the MPs spoke of, above all, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, though, and fellow Petronijevic, in the light of his amendment?- I'm sorry. So we are witnessing a current problem in the Belgrade City Assembly these days. We bear witness to the non-compliance of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, the Rules of Procedure of the City Assembly, we are witnessing an unprecedented violation of the law, the Constitution, the legal system of the state, we are witnessing that the ruling coalition in Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia openly, laughing at us, showing that in Serbia there is no legal certainty, that Serbia is not a legal state, that no one who rules this country is interested in what is written in any law. It's pointless, believe me, sometimes I wonder what we're doing here, what the laws that are passed in this House are for when these laws don't apply, because this isn't the only law that doesn't apply. When we discussed the Law of Whose Amendments Today, we of the SRS warned of all its shortcomings. In principle, when it comes to the Government Act, we do not participate and we do not respond to such laws in amendment, because the government elected by the assembly majority has the right to adopt its law on government, its law on ministries, in fact to propose it, and to be brought by the same assembly majority who voted and who supports the government, because, as in this case, what kind of government - such and laws. This time, simply, we could not not react, because you are knowingly breaking the Constitution by law, to have the support to say tomorrow, when we ask you, here, probably, in a few minutes we will start asking you why Parliament Speaker Dulic does not call elections for mayor of Belgrade, that in law there is no obligation to establish the constitutionality of the act, etc., because you know that you do not have a Constitutional Court, because you know that there is no one to address the citizen, the body, or the organisation, because the state of Serbia is in one general anarchy. You can deceive Serbian citizens when you show up on some media and talk about how we live in the rule of law, we live well, but the citizens of Serbia know what problems they face in every place, not only in the courts that were spoken of here today, but they know that there are no people in any state that can turn around, that they complain that their problem is solved, and they know that they have no institution, no constitutional court. Even if this is how we make the laws, that we prepare them so they can't be applied even when one day we have a Constitutional Court, then, ladies and gentlemen, it's very bad. First of all, the opposition to the chairman, why is there no Milan Markovic, the minister, here? He left these open papers, which means he didn't go anywhere to work, because if he did, he'd take both his purse and his papers, but he'd be in front of MPs from the congregation majority, since there's only three MPs sitting here; he's hanging out with the minister outside. It is amazing that such an amendment the minister does not accept to become an integral part of the law. If you have an amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation, which does not touch your concept of the law, which only warns you that the legal norm must be precise, decadent, clear, easily applicable, easily readable, then it is amazing why you do not accept it. The only reason you think you're going to admit that you're not the smartest. Of course not. This is not directed personally to anyone, don't get me wrong, this applies first of all to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which, of course, not the smartest people in this Serbia, do not sit the most honest, do not sit the least corrupt, sit the unscathed, but all the contrary. Gentlemen of the congregation, if you think you should support the government in all things, even when it will not accept that part of the Constitution be introduced into the law, you will think about it during the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8425	The word is from MP Arsen Djuric, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8426	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment of my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, to Article 2, which is being amended by the existing Article 6. The law. In Article 1, after saying "that it is not in agreement with the Constitution or the law", the words "as well as that immediately, and within five days at the latest, initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general act". I consider this amendment to be excessive, given that in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act, the government's duty is precisely defined to initiate the procedure within five days for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. In addition, Article 2(2) provides for sanctions, i.e. that the decision to suspend the enforcement of an individual act ceases to apply if the Government does not initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality within five days, so that I think the authority of the Government would be destroyed if it did not initiate the procedure. So I think the very text of the bill quite precisely defines this solution and I think this amendment is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8427	Is anyone else answering for this amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic? (No) National MP Dusan Bajatovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, MP Milica Vojic - Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8428	I'll start with a quote. Therefore, Article 11 which is changed and to which Mr Bajatovic tabled the amendment reads: "The government member cannot be in another position in the state body, the body of the autonomous province, the municipalities and the city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is incompatible with the duties of government members under law, nor create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest." Mr. Bajatovic's amendment refers to the change of words - "by law", he would put "under the Constitution". I think it's too high. Amendments to the Law on Government are also passed, precisely, because it complies with the Constitution. It is very important to say that this part relating to Mr. Bajatovic's amendment is, in fact, Article 126. The Constitution, which complies with the proposal, that is, the proposal of this law is in line with the Constitution and therefore it is unnecessary to insert this "Constitution" instead of "zakon".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8429	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then MP Vjerica Radeta, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment tabled by counterpart Bajatovic certainly makes sense, because the Constitution is the highest legal act of this country and older than any law. Because the laws change as the government comes, and the example is these amendments and the additions to the law and the fact that this amendment, which the colleague submitted several months ago, as well as the amendments to the SRS, came to order on October 23rd. Since July, we've moved it to October for taking down the agenda at the time, or cancelling that session, originally scheduled by Oliver Dulic, because he remembered he had something to do with the constitutional law, so, come on, as it was his turn, he'll pull this off. Then we came to the situation that, without the law, and suppose this law came on the agenda for only a few months, someone in this country, a member of the government or any other elected official, since the incompatibility of functions was clearly defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and by the president of the municipality, and by the MP, and by the councilman, and by the government member, he could do whatever he wanted. Just because it wouldn't happen that at some point someone thinks they can pass the law, they need to adopt this. I will tell you that in Serbia, individuals, in conflict of interest and incompatibility of functions, are doing just that. An obvious example is a colleague of Nebojsa Zdravkovic, a National MP from the G17 party, who is still a member of the City Council of the City of Kragujevac, which you, Mr Radosavljevic, are very well aware of, so it is absolutely pointless to talk about a member of the law that is not clearly specified that someone must stick to the Constitution. It would be fine, Mr. Markovic, Minister, since you have now returned, to think about it and to accept this amendment, because that is the only way to make sure that someone, holding the letters of the Constitution, will strictly respect it. There's actually a question for you. Here, let's say, I set an example for my colleagues, Zdravkovic. This really isn't about anything personal, it's about the situation where he found himself, and what our people would say is silly. He doesn't care, I'm here and I'm here, I'm doing what I want, and nobody can do anything to me. What is the penalty for such conduct by one individual, for incompatibility of functions, by the Government or the Ministry, when someone does not respect the Constitution? He was elected under the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia to the parliamentary office and is well written to him, it is well said, which applies to every president of the municipality, anyone who was on the political party list, whom the party has run for office, that he will not be able to find himself in the parliamentary bench tomorrow unless he resigns to the post. The same is true with members of the Government, or 126 members of the Constitution, that a member of the Government cannot be a National MP in the National Assembly, and you, Mr Markovic, were able to do so in a period of, what, 20 minutes, when you voted for yourself, and you couldn't. Neither you nor Mr. Sutanovac, you in the third chair, he in the fourth chair, and you count on, uh, taking advantage of the opportunity anyway, running out of time, and there's going to be a lot of things going on here, to catch these 20 minutes, to enlist in the ministerial office. Nice, click, and who's going to sanction you now, and how do you even think you're a regular elected minister? Of course you haven't, but in Serbia anything can, from the moment you yourself, Mr. Markovic, over two benches, gypko, skip and insert cards for the Labour Act, the Novakovic card from Thessaloniki and the Neda Arneric case. It doesn't matter, we left behind, we don't care, we're Democrats now, so we respect the Constitution, so we respect the law. And you yourself, on your own case, did not respect the Constitution, as an MP, voted to become what you are today - a minister. And what a minister, a minister who doesn't have answers to all these questions we ask him. I can't, Mr. Markovic, follow those RTS programs and everything you show up for. I accidentally had to tell Mr. Radosavljevic and the MPs that I caught yesterday when you were visiting the Belgrade Program. You're talking to yourself, because this woman is pro-forming; she's -- about time, about drinking barometer, well, the minister came, let's ask him something too. He's got that synopsis and what a woman knows is what the Constitution is, what the law is and what you need to do. You yourself, in front of the RTS cameras, talk to yourself and say, I don't know, it would be good for the local election law to be like this, and if it doesn't, it'll be different, so we'll see. In any case, there needs to be enough MPs to adopt. Of course it's necessary, because without most of it, there's nothing you can do. Now you are troubled by the majority of you, from the Democratic Party, in all these deals you make with Kostunica, and you know, as our people say, as far as he is concerned, he is neither driven nor guided, nor guided, from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8431	Please, Miss Jovanovic, take care of how you express yourself about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8432	You are a man of the forest, from the village, Mr. Albianic, and you know well that your parents taught you folk sayings and that you are using them at the right time. Why on me again, because I'm using them right now. No problem, you write this down, so when it's the right time, here, on some show, when you're visiting with Mr. Markovic, you can do the same, I'm not angry, really. As far as Mr Markovic is concerned, these remarks, which, by amendment to this member of the law, were given by a colleague of Bajatovic, you should certainly accept, because by doing so, you would have prevented any future government and any individual from trying anything similar; you are thus letting him know, you have incorporated it into the law, that he is violating the Constitution and that one function is incompatible with the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8433	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, welcome, Minister Markovic, have you had your coffee, have you joined us outside? Yes, it is. Okay. Now we can talk about the amendments. It seems to me that you were just in the O.R. to accept the amendment that we were talking about back then. Here, now, another amendment that, I repeat, also doesn't touch the concept of your bill. I'm just directing you to keep your law fully in line with the Constitution. I wrote it down on this bill when, long ago, we discussed in principle all three proposals that we are talking about today in detail. You said it was good that these three proposals were united, in order to comply with the Constitution. That first part I didn't understand, why it was good to unite three draft laws to comply with the Constitution. Mr. Markovic, Minister, I'm speaking to you. So I understand that you here have said that these bill proposals are before Parliament, first of all, to comply with the Constitution. If that's what you said, and that's okay, of course the laws should be in line with the Constitution, you've got a little bit of a mix-up in the order, but we'll talk about it later, then I don't see why you don't mind the bill reacting like this. In Article 3, and this Article 3 refers to Article 11 of the basic law, whose amendments and additions here today we are discussing, where it says that a member of the Government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the body of the Autonomous Province, the municipalities, the city and the city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is incompatible with the duties of a member of the Government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and legal interest, the amendment has been intervened to say that this is incompatible under the Constitution and the law. If you think we don't understand why you won't accept this amendment, you're wrong. Of course, we will explain to the citizens of Serbia who are following the work of this Parliament what is the essence of not accepting a completely normal, constitutional amendment, comprehensive and whatever you want. You won't, because you don't respect the constitutional law. Because you, Minister, have not proposed to this House the laws for which you were required under the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't propose the Law on Local Self-Government. If we don't have that law and you don't accept this amendment, then you, as a fellow lawyer, explain to me how directly the provisions of Article 126 will apply. The Constitution, where, in the second position, is it said - the law regulates what other functions, jobs or private interests are in conflict with the position of a member of the government? We don't have the laws, ladies and gentlemen, to determine that. We also have laws on local self-government, and on local elections, and on republican elections, etc., but these laws do not comply with the Constitution, Mr Milan Markovic. You, as resolute minister, were obliged to propose these laws to the National Assembly long ago. If you'd done it and if we had discussed these laws and passed them, then it might have made sense to believe your word that you'd be following the law in the future. If you don't respect the Constitution and don't respect the Constitutional Law, how can we believe that without this amendment intervention it is possible, in general, to enforce the law. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic mentioned that on the night the government of Serbia was elected, you and Mr Sutanovac voted for themselves, and she forgot Mr Petrovic, no less than the minister of justice. The minister of justice, the military minister, the minister of state administration, the very important resolutions in every state, ladies and gentlemen, voted for themselves the night the government was elected; they were in some vacuum for a few minutes, not an MP, not a minister, at the moment the green button was to be pressed, and at the same time, they became ministers. That, I guess, isn't on the globe, that's not there, Mr. Milivojevic, not in the cartoon. You couldn't think of it this high, Mr. Milivoevich. So, Minister Milana Markovic, it would be good for you to adopt this amendment, to convince the MPs that you are ready to respect the Constitution and the law, to help Oliver Dulic apply both the Constitution and the law and to propose to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the laws for which you are long bound. Remember, and I will remind you, Mr. Minister, when you said in an interview that all the laws would be passed in good time, right after the government's election, I asked you from this place - do you guarantee Serbian citizens, Minister Markovic, that you would suggest in good time the laws you should have proposed under the Constitutional Law to the National Assembly? You said yes, you guaranteed it. Mr. Minister, where's your guarantee? If you think these laws are passed, they must have been in the process in this House long ago. We don't have these bill proposals, but Oliver Dulic dares to say he is not obliged to call elections for mayor of Belgrade, and he is, he is. He didn't call them. The fact that he didn't call the election until Friday, up to four days ago, speaks of Mr Oliver Dulic volunteering himself on the list of those awaiting years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8435	Please, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8436	Mr. Albianic, anyone who violates the Constitution can be God's father, not the president of the National Assembly, anyone who violates the Constitution, anyone who breaks the law, one day has to go to prison. That's what Oliver Dulic's waiting for, too, Mr. Albianic. That is what awaits all of you who will vote for that Mr Oliver Dulic is not obliged to call elections for the mayor of Belgrade. He was bound, he didn't sign them. It is possible that he was deceived by some government lawyers, or by the assembly majority, by Minister Milan Markovic, but that they may discuss it at their party meetings, and Oliver Dulic is responsible for this parliament, the citizens of Serbia, and, if God so, to the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8437	Do any of the MPs report for the amendment submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic? (No) We move on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Canak. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, dear brothers and sisters, we all know here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a constitutional obligation to pass all laws, which will have to be respected throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As we all know here that the Constitution was brought to the referendum and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia made clear and loudly that Kosovo and Metohija are inalienable parts of the Republic of Serbia, it was an obligation for the government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt an amendment to the Law on Government. This obligation, above all, stems from the very preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I will read, because of you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It reads loud and clear here: "Departing from the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, as well as from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and external political relations, Serbian citizens bring the Constitution." I read this because it is the constitutional obligation of all state authorities, and therefore we, the MPs, to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the territorial integrity of the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has brought an amendment to the Law, i.e. Article 16 paragraph 2 is amended and read, i.e. The oath reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government in a safe, responsible and committed and committed to the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija within the Republic of Serbia." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Canak of the League of Social Democrats, i.e. Whether or not they are Democrats, I don't know, I would say -- a breaker of Serbia, he said it should be added: "and property". To Mr Canka, the constitution and the law means nothing, it only means property and money to break Serbia. Is there a man and state in the world who tramples the Constitution? Imagine a man who irons this oath like this to cast the oath on the floor! It means more honor and the Constitution than property, to every normal Serb. Mr. Canak, come out here and tell me if you voted loud and clear against the Serbian Constitution? Did you say Kosovo should be given to Albanians? You did. Mr. Canak, in all public appearances, you tried, 15 days ago, to invent Serbian fascists to help those who want to kidnap Kosovo. Mr. Canak, it is a shame to do so and to say that you belong to the Serbian people and Serbian citizens. No Serb enemy would do that to this congregation. If there was a law and a God, you wouldn't be here. So, Mr. Canak, don't disrespect Serbia, the Serbian people and the Serbian constitution. God will come and the law will come, don't be afraid, in Serbia, because the Democratic Party of Serbia will rule!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8439	I thank Mr. Mijailovich. The word has a bearer of this amendment, Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the inspired presentation of the predecessors, we have heard that there is no God in Serbia, but I hope there is a law. In that sense, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and submits this request to be in Article 4. The bill changes the text of the oath, so that the oath, which reads, "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge my honour to respect the Constitution and the law," and so on, changes, beyond the word "honor," the word "and property" is added. Since there's one discrepancy, to be precise, in the amount of honor and property in the government, we thought it would be very convenient to change this, because, based on the positive legal practice that was shown in the processes that were led and against me, as a representative of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, we saw that every time someone, let's say, felt hurt from the DSS and had mental pain, or was threatened with honor, they asked for money as compensation. So money was treated with a problem of mental pain or absence of honor. That is why it is important to introduce this issue of property because, as we have already seen, it is a matter of one systemic matter, whose solution we could also seriousise the functioning of the ministers. When I say -- let's get serious, I mean a very important component of their work, and that's responsibility, security to the obligations that, taking the minister's portfolio, have taken over. That responsibility is not at the level that you would be at if you were behind it and a guarantee like this. I think by changing the law, we could get a legal basis for, say, the cash compensation that citizens could ask ministers if they didn't do their job in accordance with the law and security. Since this is the basic law, which would go further, it should also be developed in the Criminal Code, etc., but we would give this a basis which does not exist now. That basis would, therefore, have made the oath, which in this case was purely declarative, a binding matter and thus made it far more significant than it is now. In that sense, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment, to take seriously the law on amendments and additions to the Government Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8441	I thank the People's MP, Nenad Canka. On the amendment, MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8442	The esteemed chairman, honourable MPs, in the government's explanation for why this amendment is not accepted says: "The amendment is not accepted because it practically introduces a specific sanction, which does not have a pandan in Serbia's legal order. In addition, it is not clear who would impose sanctions on the confiscation of property, in which proceedings, in order to carry it out.' All this is, then, solved in one way, and you, Mr. Canak, were in a position to offer these accompanying solutions, either as vice president of the Constitutional Commission, and it was you, or as an opposition who publicly called for no vote for the Constitution. All of this you were able to hack into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in time, so we would already have this category and its accompanying solutions. You were supposed to fight for this when the Constitution was passed, when you could have brought it as vice president of the Constitutional Commission, or something later, when you could have been constructive, and you weren't. I guess if one day, if you were to be a minister, you'd try to put something like this or something like that in the text of the oath, so that it would be, I swear to my grandfather, Lip's Gaia and something like that, that would be correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8443	I thank the People's MP, Zeljko Tomic. The Republic was sought by Mr Nenad Canak, and then, on the amendment, the MPs Rajko Baralic and Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8444	I assume, Mr. Tomic, that you were referring to a long-standing constitutional debate that preceded the adoption of the Constitution, so that something might be done. The people did not see any of your Constitution, and as far as the Constitution was written during the time I was vice president of the Constitutional Commission, it was written and included absolutely everything necessary for a democratic constitution, and not like this, I could even say, an unserious improvisory, which you call the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8445	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, about the amendment, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8446	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, said MP Luna, so he called him the chairman, so I apologize for joining, brothers and sisters, I don't mind, only Mother Mary gave birth to my brother Zoran, but, well, unless she thinks of this great-grandfather, but then Mr. Lune says - there is no God in Serbia, so now I don't know what God's status is in Serbia. That should be discussed, that's a very important question. If he knows for sure, then I bow down to a black country, then he has some kind of communication that I don't know is possible, but good. As far as the amendment is concerned, I wouldn't mind, but there's a feller. If it is said - I swear by the property, it should write what property it acquired, this one before it became a minister, which is small, insignificant, or this one it acquired while it was ministering, and that one is ten, fifteen, twenty million euros, in various investment funds in the SEEs, the Cayman Islands, where they pack that money, so I'm afraid that in Serbia, then, from this democratic bloc, no one would agree to be a minister. Now, this is the first thing Mr. Luna talked about -- if there was a God and a law, you wouldn't even be in this assembly, referring to Mr. Chank. What's changed since 2000? As one important team called DOS was decommissioned, so there was God and the law to all be together, to bring down those without God and law, so they came, took power, so now that some are in Parliament, there is no God and law. Both God and the law are important to all, all must take care of both the law and God, in all occasions and troubles. Do not take the name of the Lord God in vain, says the church commandment. It doesn't look like one committee secretary, Mr. Lune, to teach you that, but, well, it's not bad sometimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8447	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 100, because I'm being misread. I can speak publicly and loudly here, in front of you all, in front of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to say - I am a pure Orthodox, I have never been a communist, everyone has celebrated my glory, and I am doing it, and I am married in the Parliament church in 1972, the Serbian patriarch German married me. I said in a metaphorical sense - there is no God, because many of the wicked are in the congregation, and they should not be. That's my clear point of view, because I'm a pure believer, but now it's a real thing, let the wicked come in, I don't mind. However, it must be my clear attitude, i.e. As a Orthodox man and a pious man, I say, there is God, and he will judge all as they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8449	I thank the People's MP Predrag. Excuse me, Mr. Tomislav. Rajko Baralić appears in the Rules of Procedure, here you go, then, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8450	Not all committee secretaries were unbaptized. My best man was a priest, Mr. Lune, from the start of Adam Vasiljevic, but it doesn't give me the right to say that those who don't believe in God can't be MPs. It's very dangerous. There are others, I hope it wasn't a bad intention, but who will be an MP decides citizens in direct, secret, democratic elections, and then RIK says there's no problem, and then the mandates here, in Parliament, are being verified, the nasty and complicated procedure. It's possible that with God's help it's easier, I don't mind, but it's not a condition and it can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8451	National MP Slobodan Maras, then the National MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lune again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8452	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, reporting in connection with Article 225. A moment ago, Mr. Lune said he spoke metaphorically when he mentioned church, God, etc. But there's something going on in Novi Sad that we can't call metaphorical. The current government, consisting of SRS, DSS and SPS, or the Council for Culture of the City of Novi Sad Assembly, decided to change the name of the most famous high school in Novi Sad, the "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" high school - to "Serbian Orthodox High School in Novi Sad". These days, the citizens of Novi Sad, especially those who finished that high school, wrote a petition, in which they particularly stressed that they had a sense of tolerance and resistance to any kind of separation based on the nation and religion, which they were instilled during their schooling in that high school. What exactly is going on? Someone tried to abuse the name of a high school, which I believe is known all over the country, even the former. That high school was named 1810. The name they want to return now only lasted six years. After that, 20 times the name of that high school was changed to be named "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" in 1959. We see no excuse to change the name of this high school, especially what a member of our 11th constitution says Serbia is a world state. Please, don't confuse religion. If Bishop Irinej planned to give some high school name "Serbian Orthodox Great High School in Novi Sad", he should make that high school. We'd like her to build that high school, give her that name, but don't change one name that's got weight in New Sad and that's got weight in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8453	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word for the Rules of Procedure has the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8454	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I cannot understand the MPs who listen. I said in my personal name that the wicked should not be in Parliament, but it is not my decision, it is my personal position. Normally, as citizens choose, so will it. I didn't say that the members of the committee were godless, I just said that I was never a communist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8455	I thank Mr. Lunet. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8456	I wanted to talk about the amendment, but first, Mr. Lune, that position, even as a personal one, in this House you shouldn't stand out, and the president of the National Assembly is obliged to remind you because you state here that some people don't belong in the National Assembly. Here is the place for everyone elected by the citizens of Serbia. The second attitude, those who were baptized, went to the communists, failed baptism. It is impossible for a baptized man to go to the communists, and the greatest tragedy is that your godfather be a priest and fail, but I know that the bishop of Amphilochy also baptized one of the messengers here, so he says, no cross has been received, not on everyone. I thought I'd stay out of this debate at DOS about what honor is, what property is, but I have to, I'm encouraged. I was encouraged by this state administration minister and "against local self-government" by the view that there are no pandas in legal practice in Serbia, he wants to say that there is no appropriate example, there is no parallel example, that someone with property guarantees something. It's not a good excuse why the amendment is rejected. So, you've acquired, we've acquired, each has some of the assets, Serbia has been given to us for management, and why don't we take a more solemn oath than is provided for in this oath for the minister. He says I will work hard and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. That doesn't have a panda. I really don't know what that means - I'll be committed. I, uh, was committed, and I couldn't stand it, I was committed, but I didn't feel like it. A very bad formulation, and I think honor and property somehow go with DOS; it's easy to swear in honor, and it's hard to swear, apparently, on property. We should all consider that this property is there because the people chose us, so we had more opportunities than others, so when we betray that people in any way, let them take away what we acquired from others. Not all of it, but what gave the privilege, what gave the post, which gave the position, which gave membership to the boards of directors. In principle, this responsibility of property should be introduced, and the responsibility of honor should be carried out - I swear to honor my function - because we have changed so much of the government, and who we have spoken and determined in the Assembly that he has not respected the oath, that he has not performed his duty honorably? I think the text, but that's what we'll say when our amendment is in order, our amendment is much better, more solemn, although the minister against local self-government says it doesn't fit the solemn moment of the oath. We have introduced the most solemn text possible, but there is also a constitutional provision on the fight for Kosovo and Metohija in the part of the Republic of Serbia, not on the commitment of the minister to Kosovo and Metohija to be part of Serbia. Because if we have the Negotiating Team, if Kostunica and Tadic are personally in charge of these negotiations, what is it dedicated to, I see here walking, the environment minister, or the minister 'against local self-government', what is he committed to with regard to Kosovo and Metohija? How is he committed, or how will he fight for Kosovo and Metohija and place it in oath, and he did not say - I am a minister in the government, in Serbia, whose component is Kosovo and Metohija? What happens if they take Kosovo and Metohija from us? Is the oath okay? Will the honourable ministers, and they swear to honor, to resign and to say - we are elected by the Constitution by which Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, we have sworn an oath on Serbia in which Kosovo and Metohija are composed, they took it by force, but we resign? So our dedication wasn't enough. It seems that Kosovo and the Metohija cannot only defend themselves with commitment, the sea in some other way. Now, that other way should be determined by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't let the deadlines pass, like the deadlines of the Constitutional Law. We have less than a month and a half, maybe two, until the moment the Albanians declare their country, when at least 100 countries in the world will admit it, and we're sitting here "we're rubbing flan." We have an emergency session of the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija and is the emergency session of the National Assembly on the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Minister against local self-government. I do not understand that there is a minister for local self-government, and that local self-government law is being trampled in the Assembly, that it is being trampled by representatives of his political party, the MPs, and that they say - yes, this law exists, it is in force, but we will not respect it, and we will not respect it because we did not do everything at the time when we should, so we came to the stage in which we can justify it in front of the citizens of Serbia and say - now it is too late to respect it. So, if we did it in May, June, it would be time to respect him, but now we're in November and now we're too late to respect him. That's what you think you're running the state of Serbia and you think you're passing laws on the government of the Republic of Serbia! So, we will participate in the debate on amendments, and then we will begin the debate on the decision taken today by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, without a two-thirds majority on the Committee, has been authorised not to call local elections where conditions have been obtained. We will begin to point to you this violation of the Rules of Procedure until you decide to lead the state in the way that the Constitution has entrusted you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8457	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8458	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we'll never agree on communism, it's not even my idea. In campaigns, we also talk differently about communism. While he was alive, and I'm sure today, when he's no longer...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8459	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8460	... My best man would certainly be proud of every godfather. It could be a replica. Anyway, there was no telling what this was about. It's not appropriate to say if anyone's taken the godmother and whether it's one way or the other. A man does good deeds to the extent that he can, and I don't agree to live by anyone's rules or anyone's understanding of the world. I live the way I live my life, the way I experience other people, their needs, their needs to be different and what's possible for someone to be exactly the same. Equality is the right of the same to be different, not that all people are the same in that way. So there's no need for me to get into that kind of controversy. For your information, I was the youngest secretary of the municipal committee in SFRY, I was the only secretary of the municipal committee who wrote to the editor "Communist" Momir Brkić a letter -- don't send this newspaper anymore, nobody reads it in Cačka. I was the only secretary of the municipal committee at the SFRY who disbanded an organization in the Information List "Chacan Voice", because I believed that journalists would write more freely if they didn't have that kind of discipline. It's another time. I'm proud of every second of my life and my political career. If I lived again, I'd go the same way again. Behind me are numerous youth actions, youth activities, various forms of training of young people to recognize the phenomenal forms of social pathology, not to do drugs, not to deal with things that deprive them of all that life makes. So, in that sense, I don't, it's not a nerve, Mr. Nikolic, it's the very essence. I do not agree to live by the rules of anyone, nor the rules of the Serbian Radical Party. And in the SPS, there is that kind of comotion, a personal choice, to the extent that it does not harm the party's overall reputation and image. So, it's not a dispute, everything remains on a college level, but it's not nice to mention someone else's godfather in such a context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8461	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8462	I'm sorry, I just told my colleagues that I stuck Mr. Baralic in some nerve as soon as he had to react like this. So, believe me, I've read a lot about communism, I've been through a lot of the world where Communism, as an ideology, has acted against religion. I know a lot of people who are atheists. It's hard to say - I believe in God, I'm a communist. That would be bordering somewhere with schizophrenia. So it's impossible not to undo baptism by entering the Communist party, it's impossible in being not to undo, it doesn't have to go to church. I've seen people riding priestess. I saw the churches where the cattle lived. You know what it was all about, because Communism performed, opposed faith in God. I know you had a lot of trauma. I didn't know your best man. You mentioned him here yourself. I don't mean anything by people who were communists in one way or another. There are ideologists, there are those who consciously destroyed everything they touched, there are people who wanted to be in political life and be believers, which was very difficult. Of all the believers I spent time with as a boy or a child, none of them could advance in the Communist Party or the Communist Union. Now I have heard, Mr. Baralic, that you are the only believer who has progressed to the point of being his best man and to the extent that he is the secretary of the party committee. It didn't seem normal to me, so I reacted. Otherwise, I have great respect and respect for you, and I have nothing against you. I'm just saying, it wasn't me in your skin, your life was filled with heavy nightmares.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8463	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Business, and by the MP Radovanovic, so again, MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic said that we are waiting for the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the SRS proposal that the president of the Assembly act in accordance with the Constitution and to call the election for mayor. It is only one part of the story that began on October 8th in the Belgrade City Assembly. I assume you've been informed that you've received a decision from the Committee on Local Self-Government. You can best deny that you are not a minister against local self-government if you act in accordance with Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government and determine yourself according to events in the Belgrade City Assembly. I think you've had opportunities, especially since he was the secretary of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, to conclude, without any fences, that in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, in the most harsh way possible, the Constitution, the breaking of the Law, the broken Rules of Procedure, was violated by the Statute of the City of Belgrade. We expect you to correct it in the only possible and best way, and for you as a Democratic Party, for the Assembly, for the present, and for some future time, to make it clear in such a way that, if there is, perhaps, a random mistake, and until the moment until you are personally determined, I will believe that this was a random mistake, there was a discrepancy, a difficult situation caused by the death of Nenad Bogdanovic. What do you want to do? People work, people make mistakes, it's time to make a mistake right. So I believe that this mistake happened by accident, only at the moment until you do exactly what the law obliges you to do. There's no need for me to read you article 111, I think you know him well. Among other things, at the Committee meetings, all MPs, regardless of which party they belong, voted in favour of the Committee's decision and, in some ways, said that the event in the City Assembly is of such nature that the Ministry must react. Mr. Minister, you have great responsibility and events in the Serbian Parliament, I can also say in the Republic of Serbia, depending on your response today to the Serbian Parliament, which we expect from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8465	The word has been given by MP Radovan Radovanovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8466	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I reported on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I want to say that I understand why part of the ruling coalition, when the property is mentioned, gets very upset. I want to ask the chairman how they allow in this assembly and MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this way, as we have just heard, to be insulted? I want to read Article 21's third position. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been mentioned several times today, but only mentioned. No one seems to have any intention of sticking to him. "Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability." What I heard today about this pay phone from a DSS MP very upset me and returned to a period that I thought would never happen again in this country, when the most profitable interest in us was being a Serb. Simply, you write on your suit "I'm a Serb" and you walk the streets, you drill into your chest, and you think it's something that will bring you and your people progress or some other pleasure. When I think about myself and if I try to leave something behind, then I can't possibly be the one who's gonna walk and say, "I'm the best, I'm the best, I'm this, I'm that." I'm trying to make the impression that I want, first of all, on my loved ones, on my neighbors, on my associates, and on everyone I care about. To my great satisfaction, to the pleasure of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, in this meeting of the National Assembly, besides Orthodox Serbs, sits and most representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in that number and as structurally, according to all statistics, are deployed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask the chairman to answer us how he will react to these insults that we have heard here and all the citizens who have listened to this and who will read about this tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8467	We agreed in the presidency to monitor the dynamics of the presentation of MPs and respect for the part of the Rules of Procedure relating to minutes. What the MP may say, I am here among the younger MPs, unfortunately, by age, perhaps among the oldest, we have not defined so far. I'll never insult anyone. Please, by personal example, each of us tries to overcome the insult until we define words, and I have advocated writing words that we cannot speak, estimating, above all, the importance of the institution in which I sit; however, we are not so unserious. So I ask that each of the MPs, and I fully agree with what Mr Radovanovic just said, when he comes out for a pay phone, try, first of all, to be polite and polite. Thank you very much. Is Rajko Baralic retreating? Please, just say what member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8468	Article 104(2) Mr. Mrkonjic, Rajko Baralic never retreats. So -- schizophrenic, said the predecessor, I think it's defined as SEH paranoia in medicine. Let them keep an eye on people when they talk hard. Whether someone had a nightmare or not, it's his destiny. I had one nightmare, which I tried to resolve here in the Assembly, by three times proposing amendments to the Social Security Act, that the children of the peasants whose parents died, like my father, would be given the right to qualify while they were regular students. Except for the SPS MP, Mr Kojcic, as well as Mr Parezanovic of the SRS, no one has ever voted for it. That nightmare is still following me. I hope that in this assembly, fellow MPs will help to stop this nightmare, that those whose parents are peasants, after their deaths, can get their country'sapunage, to get a normal school, without having a big "pemmezary" on a big vacation, that they don't have five banks to buy it, and that it's not those who can't go on a field trip, or who end school in other people's shoes and pants. So it is a nightmare. If that's what Mr. Nikolic meant, that's the nightmare I had, I've got it today. As for communists and Orthodoxy, I urge him to ask how the Communist Party of Greece works, whether they are Orthodox and how it works there, whether they are less communist or less Orthodox. It's for an academic debate, and I'm not doing it anymore today. Let people look at their parties where some of the people were, and if they are interested in accurate data, they can help them see who were all the heads of analysis in the central committees, who were secretaries, presidents of action conferences, who were chairman of the Commission for Idea Work and Political Training. It would be a very interesting reading for Serbian citizens. I'm done. I don't want to talk about it anymore today. I think Article 104(2) should respect everyone at any moment, if we want collegiation in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8469	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) The People's MPs Alexander Marton and Alexander Jerkov submitted to the Fourth Amendment together. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Proposer, Mr. Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov and my littleness, on Article 4, we have submitted an amendment, which reads, I will read the entire text of the oath, and later our addition: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge my honor to respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government in a secure, responsible and committed and committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia." The LSV once again underlines that for the remaining territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is important, and that is why we add, after saying "the Republic of Serbia", to say "as well as to strengthen the autonomy of Vojvodina, its legislative, executive and partial judicial authorities, the rights of original income and property, and that I will seek to achieve the full subjectivity of the city of Belgrade, Negotinska krajina, Šumadija, Raska district, Nisavski district and other regions that are formed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that I will protect the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia". I would only point out once again that Kosovo and Metohija are not the only autonomy within the Republic of Serbia. We are all aware that the AP Vojvodina is also part of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I underline that we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are deeply dissatisfied with the status of Vojvodina, but Vojvodina is fully loyal to the Republic of Serbia. I would point out that there are also other regions in the Republic of Serbia to point out, because why share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the citizens of Kosovo and the citizens of Metohija, Belgrade, Negotinska krajina, Šumadija, Raska district. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, but we believe that such a clumsy attempt by the motionary, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is in a position to point out that the status of Kosovo and Metohija is different from other territories of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, to strengthen our position in front of the international community, accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8471	For her word, the amendment, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mrkonjic, I do not have in front of me an explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, later from my colleague Radeta to see, to find out, or she will answer, I am interested in what the Government has written wisely in response to this completely unspeakable amendment. That's not a forbidden word and I disagree with you, dear colleague Mrkonjic, this is not Knesset or another place of the House of Representatives where a list of so-called "the House of Representatives" was created. forbidden expressions. That's what these separatists in Montenegro tried to do, so all wrapped up, and everything in gloves, they kicked out of the Constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Serbian language and did whatever they wanted. It is better that we, here in the Serbian Parliament, where the people, who passed on to us part of their sovereignty, have sent us, talk as people who represent the idea, openly, in the public language, about everything and to fight against these phenomena, in ideological and political terms, to which they have the right of Miss Jerkov and Mr Marton, but that is something that Serbian citizens can never accept. It's not just that you can't get great support for the idea of this amendment, it's about the fact that it's anti-constitutional. So, you have to adapt the amendment to the Rules of Procedure and the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because any claim to something that does not exist and hypothetically think about Serbia having some regions, contrary. I'm very interested in who drew those lines for you and how you came up with this fantastic idea that Shumadija - Šumadija, and Nis is a region, or Raška area, and you don't say the old Raška area in geographical and territorial terms. Mr. Marton, you've been a junior colleague and an MP since February in this assembly, but there was a representative here, so-called. The League for the Forest and, imagine, it was even an equal member of that DOS conglomerate when there were 18 members, DOS, as you liked to call yourself, and was equal in the vote with Djindjic and Kostunica. This, a certain Cole Kovacevic, I, like the Kragujevci, call Cole Manojle, is what you and him, Mr. Marton, ten days ago, found in Kragujevci High School to try to poison the Kragujevac youth with some unbulful stories about neo-fascism in Serbia, which we will only discuss and what the assembly board will be up to. So, this particular Cole Kovacevic, whose idea is about, as is yours, this kind of thinking about the whole of Šumadija, the administrative district of Šumadija, where I am, who has Kragujevac and six other municipalities, i.e., the Kragujevac five and six others, got it, and my colleague Radosavljevic witnessed it the fifth time I've mentioned it today, the entire 356 votes. He knows his colleague Radosavljevic, because he was a member of RIK, so it's really funny what you suggest. At the very least, I said earlier, unblessingly, and I can find a number of such beautiful expressions in Serbian, so it's really pointless to comment more, but I can, as a serious politician, comment, eventually, what Radeta's colleague is going to say, and that's the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because, regardless of those floscules that you have just presented, you have tried something to make the state, the Constitution, through the explanation of this constitutionally unsustainable amendment, unsustainable under the Law of Territorial Organization, autonomy, local self-government, however you will, again, originates from your story that you have a claim to something that, even in the first days after the five-to-a-octobarian coup, have disowned Vojislav Kostunica, Zorica Radovic and all of that society, which originally intended to advocate Serbia divided by regions, to create conditions, the next day, don't give God, for every kind of separatism. I don't respect you, if that's what you meant when you wrote the amendment, but apparently that's coming from somewhere, you can see between these lines that you love it and you wouldn't mind. Therefore, it is impossible to advocate any, if that was the intention, economic strengthening, economic independence, through decentralisation, through original revenues, without respecting the existing constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which passed a broad debate, for which you did not vote, you said that, once we were on a television show. That's your problem, then. The majority support of Serbian citizens was to have this constitution, which last year, on 28 October and 29 October, came across the great support of Serbian citizens and was solemnly declared at Mitrovdan, and that is it. Now you can have some political idea, but it can't be formally found in a congregation procedure like this, because such thinking is devastating. That is why the people do not accept it, and it would be dangerous if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not warned you in response that you could not do such a thing under the existing constitution and by all the following laws, or by those that are yet to be passed, but which will have to be put into constitutional frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8473	The word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8474	Dear colleagues, in the explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia for the amendment, submitted by LSV counterparts, it is now said that the proposed text is unconstitutional and it is clear to anyone who looks at the amendment. I didn't answer for it, I answered because the amendment itself is quite pointless. It is clear to all and should not be considered at all such an amendment, but when it has already arrived in the procedure and already is the subject of today's debate, then we cannot say and not notice that there is one party in this assembly, one parliamentary group, which is thinking in a very strange way and very strange political solutions, a parliamentary group that is not only thinking about the autonomy of Vojvodina, but is creating some new regionalisation of Serbia, creating some new border, inventing some other region, and even the city of Belgrade is particularly isolated as one continent. All this, regardless of the very polite exposure of fellow Marton, cannot indicate anything but the desire to work against the interests of this country, to work against the Constitution, which is no wonder, because this party did not even support the Constitution. But when there are already MPs in this House, it should, as much as take care of what he proposes and how he behaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8475	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8476	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mrkonjic, I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure a moment ago, and I needed to, because I knew I was going to talk about this amendment, so I'm going to use a minute or two to warn you in some way. Before I say that I speak in a pure and clear Serbian language, that I do not like and avoid using foreign expressions in my speech, and therefore it may happen that during this debate, or any debate during the day, I use an expression that all Serbian citizens understand. I don't know why you, Mr. Grouchy, intervene in such a language. Don't succumb to the influence of these so-called. Democrats. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you belong, I suppose, to the society of true Democrats. Let the MPs speak the way they think they should, to address their voters in the best way possible. Now about the amendment. The amendment of counterparts Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton had to evaluate the Legislative Committee. I am surprised that there is no chairman of the Legislative Committee here, since it has been very often happening in this and also in that previous meeting, that the President of the Legislative Committee and the Assembly's majority may have thought to propose to the assembly majority that some amendment be rejected because it does not comply with the law, with the Constitution and so on. I would like to remind the MPs, first of all, Mr Vlatkovic or Vlatko Ratkovic, that I am constantly chasing, I am not sure, I apologize if I have been wrong, mostly, it is the president of the Legislative Committee, to remind him of Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly, as well as the questions of the single legislative methodology and other issues of importance for the uniform legal and technical processing of acts brought by the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee also had to conclude that it had to inform the National Assembly that the amendment these two colleagues submitted was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. unconstitutional. Of course I can't think of it, and it doesn't occur to us that we're preventing any MP from expressing the views of the party he represents in this House, the actions of the voters he represents, I suppose, or his own opinion. It is the legitimate right of every MP and we from the SRS will never oppose that democratic right. There are authorities, and in this House, who must take care of whether something is in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. The SRS' view is widely known that regionalisation is very dangerous for the state of Serbia. We have fought and managed to convince even Vojislav Kostunica to give up regionalisation in the Constitution and we will always fight for it, as we accept the autonomy of Vojvodina, as we accept, or support it, and in every way we will fight for the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, but the opinion on the contrary does not give anyone the right to be undetected to submit such an amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia said this amendment should not be accepted. It is said - the amendment is not accepted because a member of the Government is bound by an oath to protect those values contained in the Constitution. The Constitution does not foresee the existence of a region, nor a legislative and executive authority (and not a partial judicial authority) of an autonomous province. Indeed, I ask the colleagues who have submitted this amendment -- where are they, in what member of the Constitution, from which member of the Constitution did they draw the position they have made in this amendment? This amendment could have been an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but no amendment to this law is possible because there is no constitutional basis for the government to, as it stands here, swear to strengthen the autonomy of Vojvodina, its legislative, executive and partial judicial authorities, the rights to original income and property, and that it will seek to achieve the full subjectivity of the city of Belgrade, Negotinska krajina, Šumadija, Raska district, Nisavski district and other regions formed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to protect the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is only right here - that it will protect the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, my colleague, my colleague is not here, my colleague, you are here, you will have to tell where you got the right to violate Serbia in this way, to share Serbia in this way, to create potential hubs in Serbia. It is common knowledge that you belong to a Separatist party, but, please, in this House you must, you are bound as I am, as every other MP, to respect the Constitution, to respect the laws. We, the Serbian Radicals, have not voted for any law since the 2000 DOS coup, but any law that you DOSs, by your majority, bring, we respect until now as long as the law is in force. It is the obligation of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, especially the obligation of a MP. While the law is at the stage of the debate, each one can also state his position, as you had the right and the possibility to express your views when it comes to the draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No one was stopping you from doing that. You made your point of view. Thank God you failed to transfer what you predicted in this amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you cannot, Mr Marton, submit amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, I resent the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, for not responding in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure and informed the National Assembly that this amendment is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8477	The word is from MP Nikola Lazic, about the amendment, then Milisav Petronijevic, about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8478	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment that is at stake, despite the motion's best intentions, should not be accepted because it does not show an understanding of the highest legal act, i.e. coming out of the framework provided for by the Constitution. The amendment stipulates that the text of the oath mentions something concerning the territorial organisation of Serbia, or the text of the amendment, which would become part of the government's oath, so as to provide for the specific mention of certain parts of Serbia in the oath. Serbia is not subject to the Constitution as a country of the region, and therefore the applicant's intensity has no basis in the law, which makes it unacceptable. The idea of setting up a country in principle of the region, in itself, is not a bad idea. Namely, the DSS thinks it is best for Serbia to be regionalised in a modern way, to ensure a balanced and balanced development of all its parts, as well as to prevent certain retrograde tendencies. That is why our party's proposal for a constitution was also directed in this direction, using models that proved to be a successful and effective, or proposing form of a region that can be defined as a combination of Italian and Spanish models. Given that most of the partners with whom the Constitution, i.e. relevant political parties and works of the expert public, were not favoured by the idea of defining Serbia as a state of the region at that time, we, on behalf of state interests and the need to reach a consensus on this issue, gave up this idea. If the idea of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and was to propose a regional order of Serbia, it is known how it is done, through the Constitution and through the accompanying laws, rather than through the text of the oath for members of the government. However, all of this, the idea of a promoter, a fellow Social Democrats League member Vojvodina, to integrate and mention some regions in these oaths, has been done in an arbitrary way, by mixing regions, districts, areas, etc. The question can be asked how is it that there is no explicit mention of Kosovo and Metohija in the very text of the amendment? Also, if regionalisation is proposed, as has been done through this amendment by colleagues from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, it is not appropriate to propose the principle that regions have asymmetric competences, i.e. why Vojvodina would have incomparably greater competences than others, as you have foreseen here, regions, not because there are no such examples in world practice, but because it is once again in constitutional matter, because the Constitution does not provide neither legislative, nor executive, nor partial judicial authority of an autonomous province. If colleagues from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina wanted to change the Constitution to define the territorial organisation of Serbia, then it was necessary for them to participate in making the Constitution, not boycotting the constitution, and then wanting to deal with the matter in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8479	I thank the People's MP, Nikola Lazic. The word has been made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to make it clear to the SPS that it is against this amendment, and politically, and obviously it is not legal. The amendment is that the text of the oath should be accompanied by words: strengthening the autonomy of Vojvodina and its legislative, executive and partial judicial authorities, the rights to original income and property, and that it will seek to achieve the full subjectivity of the city of Belgrade, Negotinska krajina, Šumadija, Raska district, Nisavski district and other regions that are formed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it will protect the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That may be the political position of the parties who advocate it. Our political stance is contrary to that. One more thing. There is no possibility of this here -- and other regions that are formed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The territory of the Republic of Serbia knows the autonomous province, all honour, and local self-government, does not predict regions. God forbid if Serbia were to disintegrate in this way, it would just split up nicely and split up, etc. In particular, there is no possibility of forming new regions. It's a political attitude, compared to the political attitude of someone who has one. Our position is completely opposite - there is no regionalisation of Serbia, as this would lead to disastrous consequences for the Republic of Serbia. Legally, this could not be an amendment. It is possible that this may be a political stance at a press conference, or expressed for this speaker, and the amendment must meet some prescribed conditions. Mrs. Verica Radeta called, and I'm calling on article 45. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm surprised the Legislative Committee, whose real job is to look at the law, the amendment, and see if it's in accordance with the Constitution and the law, didn't do it. I don't know if it's sloppyness or speed or anything else, but I don't want it to be an answer and it's deliberately missed. There is also a great responsibility of the Legislative Committee, which has failed to determine. This isn't a naive question, and it's not an easy question, we reject it, and we don't accept a amendment like this. Thank you. PRESIDENT: I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic. The replica of Mr. Petronivic's presentation has Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8481	Mr. President, a replica of Bojana Alexic's statement, if I'm not mistaken, from the DSS. Of course, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has not been a separatist party, and since the start of its political action it has advocated regionalisation and decentralisation of this country. We have heard from the Democratic Party of Serbia two positions -- from you we have heard that the DSS is by no means for the regionalisation of the state, and from Mr Lazic -- that it is for the regionalisation of the state, so I find that a little odd. I would point out that today we have also heard the views of five-six parliamentary groups regarding our amendment, not to go back into what it says, but we have touched a lot of decentralisation and regionalization issues. I haven't heard the attitude of those who make up the DS Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8482	I thank Mr. Marton. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Miss Bojana Aleksic, then Verica Radeta, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8483	Mr. Chairman, thank you for rejuvenating me, I'm not a Miss, I was a Miss long ago, more than 20 years ago, but thank you. There's a misread DSS position here. The democratic party of Serbia has advocated regionalisation, and my colleague Nikola Lazic explained it. We had it in our concept, but it was a different regionalization, which had nothing to do with what the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina proposed. The whole idea of Serbia's regionalisation by the DSS concept was that there were no autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo, but that Serbia should be divided into regions, modelled by Spain or Italy, some constitutional solution similar to those mentioned in the constitutions of Spain and Italy, which are countries of the region. The whole idea why the DSS proposed this at the time, a few years ago, was precisely to preserve Kosovo, to preserve Vojvodina, and the division of Serbia would not look at all what it gave, entirely arbitraryly, the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Our proposal went towards strengthening Serbia's state, and the Social Democrats League's proposal, not only this one, but, in general, the Social Democrats' League's behaviour in political life and Serbia-Vojvodine's direction towards uniting Serbia, decommissioning and dispersing Serbia and, possibly, the final disappearance of Serbia one day, because for me, for completely unknown reasons, it is in the interest of this party which, fortunately, has no great foothold, even, not even in Vojvodina, let alone in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8484	I thank the MP Bojana Aleksic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8485	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in paragraph 1, says - if the MP, in his presentation at the National Assembly, is offended by the other MP from another assembly, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. On that basis, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that I can claim that the work of this Parliament, or every session, I follow at least as many as any chairman, I think all MPs know it, and I follow the maltenes of every spoken word from this place. Mr. Marton, not a colleague of Bojana Alexic's said you were a separatist party, that's what I said, and that's why I'm surprised that you're replicating her and not me. Of course, whether you're a separatist or not, that's your political conviction. It will be declared, and declared, by the citizens of Serbia. How much support you have, you can see by the number of your representatives in this House. I hope, God will give, so next time you will not be in Parliament, that other citizens, mostly from Vojvodina, from the part of Serbia, who voted for you, will realize that what you propagating is not good for Serbia, is not good for the citizens of Serbia. What is important, when it comes to your amendment, is not your political commitment, but what I want to hear from the President of the Legislative Committee, and that is a clear statement whether this amendment is in accordance with the Constitution or not. We argue that this amendment is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As such, he could not, without proper decision of the Legislative Committee, come before the MPs. That's what we want to clear up. I call on the president of the Legislative Committee to come from some corner where he is now, because he was here this morning. Every time, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, to state the position of the Legislative Committee, he is not in the O.R. I now call upon him and call upon him to come, to see if the Democratic Party, because he is a member of the Democratic Party, thinks that this amendment is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. That's the key question, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, once again, the amendment by counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov and colleagues of Alexander Marton is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Legislative Committee violated the Rules of Procedure because it did not make a decision of the Legislative Committee in this regard and because it did not warn all MPs that we had an anti-constitutional proposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8486	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8487	The Honorable Presidency, for the Democratic Party, this amendment is unacceptable, for at least two reasons. The first reason is that the amendment contains unconstitutional categories, therefore, categories that are beyond what the Constitution defines. The second thing, the text of the oath proposed by this law is, in fact, the text drawing the basic elements out of the constitutional oath, which was prescribed by the Constitution by the President of the Republic. So the contents of these two oaths are consistent and these are two reasons why this amendment is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8488	I thank the People's MP Nadia Kolundjia. On the amendment, MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8489	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I am increasingly convinced that two of my younger colleagues were right when they proposed such an amendment, especially when I heard part of the discussion by the ruling majority in this house. Knowing that the commitment of the European Union and modern Europe to be increasingly regionalised, I suppose these two of my colleagues have not handled anything more than that of the Republic of Serbia more and more, even after this, being like Europe. And whether something stands or does not stand in the Constitution should read it. And whether it springs and is possible under the Constitution, there is nothing else but to take it, here, there is, in front of us, most of it, so allow me, Mr. Chairman, to read Article 182, which says: "Autonomic provinces are autonomous territorial communities established by the Constitution, in which citizens exercise the right to province autonomy. The Republic of Serbia has the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. The essential autonomy of AP Kosovo and Metohija will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. New autonomous provinces may be established and already established to abolish or merge under the procedure provided for for in the change of the Constitution. The proposal for the establishment of new or abolishing, i.e. the merger of existing autonomous provinces, determines citizens in a referendum, in accordance with the law." So much for that. I would accept that someone came out and said, fellow MPs were wrong, this amendment is impossible, because it is necessary first to form regions or other autonomous provinces, and then to reconcile it, but that it is impossible to form it, it does not stand. I was very bothered, I think a colleague from the Democratic Party of Serbia said that, that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, or the citizens of Vojvodina, is now thinking of the autonomy of Vojvodina. Dear colleague, the autonomy of the Vojvodina has existed since 1849, and it can't occur to anyone that it's now formed, and God forbid it should occur to someone to challenge it. I've heard it a few times, even today, that we're a separatist party, that this, that we are, that we want to break the Republic of Serbia. The biggest insult to me is that someone tells me I'm a separatist, tells me I'm a traitor, that I want something against the state I live in. I think it's past that time when there were political points, or any other, when we went out on our own, and we attacked someone that they were the inner enemy, that we had these external enemies, that we had this, that we had that. Here you are, my dear gentlemen, so get acquainted with our programme, get acquainted with our founding documents, our documents that we have come up with that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina today has four MPs, and with its work and relationship to the AP Vojvodina and to the Republic of Serbia will certainly achieve that there will be far, far more in the future. And if anyone has a foothold or no foothold, please, gentlemen, call that election again, so let's see. And we, believe me, wish that one day there will be no more MPs in this congregation. Whether that day is coming or not, it's not just up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8490	I thank Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The word has been given to MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8491	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all those who have criticised this amendment have been very clear. First of all, they criticized the very fact that this amendment is affecting constitutional matter, not the matter regulated by this law. They were all very clear, saying that if the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina wanted to change the Constitution, it could propose it in a procedure that implies, firstly, a two-thirds majority in Parliament, and then a referendum on which citizens would plead. When we talk about the autonomy of Vojvodina, in 1848 and 1849, in a revolution in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the Dukeship of Serbia and the Tami Banat, not the autonomous province of Vojvodina, was created. It was created exclusively as the Serbian people's desire for self-preservation within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Vojvodina's autonomy, as a democratic fluid, was established only by this constitution, which was voted by Serbian citizens last October. Why? Because when it was formed after World War II in 1945, it was created as the fluid of a non-democratic revolution, carried out by the Communist Party. The 1990 constitution, which also predicted Vojvodina, was also undemocratic, unilateral, because it was voted in the one-party assembly. Therefore, the autonomy of Vojvodina established by this constitution was first established in a democratic way and was first declared by citizens and Serbia and Vojvodina. The autonomy of Vojvodina exists and the DSS has advocated that Vojvodina has its autonomy, that it has its own financial autonomy, above all, because it is good to keep the money where it is being made, but also we will always bet on and appeal to the Democratic Party, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, the Vojvodian Hungarian Party, who participate in the provinceal government, that inside the Vojvodina they are not going to New Sad, but that the money goes to Zrenjanin, and to Kikind, and to Sombor, Srem, so that everyone can make as much of what they produce in their atar there and spend. Therefore, the autonomy of the Vojvodina exists, it will not be abolished, but please, when you speak of the autonomy of the Vojvodina, be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8492	I thank the People's MP Bork Ilic. Do any of the MPs report on this amendment? (No) MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8493	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment to Article 4 has been submitted on behalf of the SPS. A bill of law, which extends the text of the oath. So, the oath is -- I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia, and I pledge with my honor that I will respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with security, responsibility, justice and commitment to the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. Through this amendment, it is proposed that, after saying "and be committed to preservation", the words "terroral integrity and the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia". We believe that this text has a comprehensive content, which essentially obliges the members of the government in their work, in their duties concerning preservation, not only of Kosovo and Metohija but of all its parts throughout its territory. So the precision and emphasis of these words is significant for several reasons, or for different aspects. Such a formalised oath obliges government members to take care of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, not just Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises whether whenever we come into a situation, God forbid some of our territories, or some part of Serbia, will be disputed by the criteria of the international community, changing laws, constitutions or oaths, and then apostrophe of that part of the territory that will then be current? Secondly, government members, based on the established policy they run, are obliged to implement the government's programme and take care of development and the needs of all parts of Serbia. Serbia must develop in all its parts, it must be kept safe from metropolising as the final course of development, which we are facing here today. Therefore, remote parts of Serbia, particularly border and parts of the national mixed population, must not be neglected. By neglecting these parts, there is room for dissatisfaction and the movement of human and minority rights by mentors who often care about these issues, about these problems, by some centres of power that run this world's, globalist policy, which are in the interest of atomising and dispersing Serbia. So this could be the generator of many problems in many areas, such as the Raška area, or, for example, eastern Serbia, where it is currently so-called. The hairy question, which is now being built and created as some kind of problem. So we're talking about creating such dissatisfactions where we have an unbalanced development of Serbia, where some ministers don't care enough, in the course of the implementation of their programme and their policies, about these areas. We have a situation to then heat dissatisfaction from these other foreign centres of power, which can be fatal to Serbia's integrity, according to its sovereignty. When we talk about these dissatisfactions, or the poor condition in certain parts of Serbia, it is known that, for example, the road network, or road infrastructure in eastern Serbia, is quite neglected. Let us, therefore, go to eastern Serbia, from Pogorec, to the Danube, to Kladov, or, say, from Pogorec, to Kučev and Majdanpek, and on, or from Pogorec, over Petrovec to Mlavi and Žagubica, to Bor, or, for example, from Paracino, through Zaječar, to Knjižvac, or to Negotina, and it will be seen that the roads there are indeed neglected, and some of them have been made during Joseph Broz Tito. On the other hand, we have parts of Serbia that are favored, probably because of the influence of powerful ministers who are from those parts, without talking about what is Belgrade. Therefore, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you need to protect Serbia, you need to be committed to all its works, so that the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia do not come to question a certain moment. Another aspect of maintaining Serbia's integrity is the work and relationship of ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I do not believe that certain environments or municipalities can be privileged, according to the key to the party's similarity with regard to the party membership of ministers. It is indeed an inadmissible and immature approach and can have fatal consequences. Or, for example, funding from the National Investment Plan, which belongs to Serbia and all its citizens, must be distributed fairly, in line with the needs of these citizens and in line with the needs of different environments, rather than the key to party membership or colouring of certain areas. In a subjective way, Minister Gilas, or other ministers who have in their paragraphs, or budgets, will decide on that membership, will make significant amounts of these funds. In addition, such an approach to the distribution of these funds, or investments under the key to party membership, is not the mark of democracy, unless democracy is strictly mechanically understood, and democracy is spoken only by memory, as the parrots do. So, these few aspects are very important and I think there are credible criteria for the distribution of funds and investments, not only in certain parts, more powerful parts, where more powerful policies and political influences are, but every minister, and the government, too, must take full account of the Republic of Serbia as its own country, which is important in all its parts. The Republic of Serbia, its subjectivity and integrity are not only defended in Vienna, when the need comes, as it seems today, either in Brussels, or in New York, or in important metropolis, when we are already, in some way, ruled. The Republic of Serbia defends itself with one fair and mature policy, a policy that will take care, at any moment, of the needs of all parts of Serbia and of all its citizens. For these reasons, we believe that this text of the oath should be put more content, in one way or another, that we have certain proposals that will make ministers and the whole public see the importance and essence of one such text, which, in any case, should oblige reasonable, honest, honest and responsible ministers to lead a valid policy, in favour of Serbia and its citizens. In this way, the SPS thinks that the text of the oath given in the bill is not at the height of the task, is not at the height of what should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8494	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. Before we continue the session, one notice. The fifth session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, planned for 24 October 2007, in Gracanica, AP Kosovo and Metohija, is delayed due to the sudden prevention of ministers for Kosovo and Metohija from attending the session. You will be notified of the subsequent session. Thank you. Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8495	Ladies and gentlemen, here, finally, the actual text of the oath, that is, the text which should be adopted by the current absent minister and become an integral part of the law, or, if not accepted by the minister, that the assembly majority in the day to vote should vote on such an oath text. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the text proposed by Mr Aleksandar Vukic reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge to unconditionally protect its sovereignty and overall territory, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. I will respect the Constitution and the law, and I will carry out my duties as a member of the Government with security and responsibility. "This amendment solution is more appropriate to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia than proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We heard in the debate and saw that there were a lot of amendments to this article, which says that MPs have taken seriously that it is important that the oaths of government members will be made in the constitution of a new government, and of this current government, because, I remind you, this government of Vojislav Kostunica has not taken an oath in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia either. Mrs Nada Kolundzija, a moment ago, when she spoke about the amendment of counterpart Jerkov and colleagues in Marton, said, among other things, that the amendment is unacceptable because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia follows the oath of the President of the Republic. That reminds me, I might forget, if Boris Tadic hadn't yet taken an oath under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, the question is whether he can answer in accordance with the constitution and probably why he treats Serbia's state and citizens so irresponsiblely. That is why it would be good for you gentlemen to make him out of the congregation majority, and we remind him that he is obliged to take an oath in accordance with the Constitution, which came into force in the meantime, when he was already president of the Republic of Serbia. Sir, here, I can't remember the name, it was a copy, enjoy your stupidity, and don't engage in serious and responsible debates, because you're not capable of it. You know, all Serbian citizens already know that, and your colleagues know that, so they won't let you go out for a pay phone, if you accidentally convince them, we'll be grateful. Why do we think it is necessary to change the text of the oath in relation to the text given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Because it is inappropriate for government members to swear their honor, it is inappropriate at all, and it is particularly inappropriate when they swear to a government that is now current in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Milan Markovic, who is not present now, gave the honorary word of Tito six months ago, that within the time period laid down in the Constitutional Law, or the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, the laws which are in the power of the ministry at which he is headed will be on the agenda. Of course, he gave his word of honor, he did not deliver the bill to the congregation procedure and nothing to anyone. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Not to give him Kostunica. ) Of course, he doesn't give it to Kostunica. That's why we can't even trust Kostunica for a word of honor, Mr. Todorovic, you've reminded me well. Mr. Kostunica is the president of the government who tramples his electoral promises most, that's the man who said he could look anyone in the eye, that The Hague's ninth hole was playing, well, from that ninth hole, became the Prime Minister who would remain in the history of black letters, as the man who handed the most to The Hague tribunal, as the man who kidnapped all Serbs who left during his rule, and was sent by the minister who was on temporary work as a stewardess, that's the Loncar who was on the flights of Belgrade-Hag, who sent all those Serbs there. This is the man who sent Mr. Lukic to surrender voluntarily, and by the way he forgot his slippers and glasses, so he went into his pajamas, he surrendered so voluntarily. Mr Kostunica is the one who gave the honorable word that he will not hand over Serbs to The Hague tribunal, and today he does not admit, or is lying to Serbian citizens that Mr Zdravko Tolimir was arrested in Republika Srpska, and he packed it in a garbage bag and transferred it to The Hague. So, such a government, whose head is such a president, to swear upon someone's word of honor and to trust that government, is absolutely unacceptable to the SRS. Imagine we ask, say, Dinkic, Djelic, Ilic, and these are all Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and let's say, honest words to you, Dinkic, Djelic, Ilic, are you not going to rob this people, this country. They're going to say - the word of honor, we won't, but they're going to continue as they've done so far. Let's ask Dragan Sutanovac, honorary words to you, Mr Sutanovac, are you never going to steal the electoral will of Serbia's citizens again, he will say - honor me, I will not, and then I will remind the citizens of Serbia of a famous theft called "Bodrum", which DS is trying to show in public as a judicial judicial end. It's a lie, ladies and gentlemen, it's a lie, citizens of Serbia. The Bodrum affair was never in court. That's what Boris Tadic lied about in the election campaign, he said, "Here, I'm ready to transfer the Bodrum affair to the judicial authorities, as the court rules, so the DS will behave." No one involved in the Bodrum affair will be able to be in some high-ranking position in the DS. What happened in the meantime? A certain procedure has been initiated, it has been brought to justice before the competent court, but not for the abuse of Neda Arnerić's credit card, but for the abuse of Natasha Milojevic, a colleague, and this has absolutely nothing to do with the disputed card Boris is lying about; he lied then and continued in continuity. An affair related to theft, one of the most serious crimes, the theft of the electoral will of Serbian citizens. Remember, you were banging in pots, pots, for election thefts, you remember what you were saying was supposed to happen to someone who stole the election will of citizens. You did it, right here. Stealing an election will is if someone abuses someone's card and votes instead. Can you claim that the one who voted in Thessaloniki and the one who voted from Bodrum, if they were here, would vote for those proposals? I can't say that. That's why in their name the minister voted here, remember those pictures, he was transferred from second row, with the lady who was then a deputy to Zoran Zivkovic in the federal government, I can't remember her name either, she was forgotten, as they switched to vote in line in front of themselves. That's what Dragan Sutanovac was involved in. That was Bojan Pitiæ involved. This involved Radosavljevic from Kragujevac, all of whom, and today-to-day, senior DS officials, which I don't care about, but unfortunately, high-ranking officials in the state of Serbia. That is what should concern all citizens of Serbia, and, above all, the MPs who are here on behalf of these citizens. Can we believe the word of honor, ladies and gentlemen? Is it enough for such an oath to honor us and to say, this one will certainly carry out his duty in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution? The essence and basis is to swear that they will act in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. As far as you are concerned, let the members of the government work in accordance with the law, and no one will miss anything, at least as far as the deed is concerned. We can't trust Minister Velimir Ilic, who tells reporters directly to the public of Serbia when it comes to those famous Sarancic trains -- what you've gotten so far with that law on public procurement, it's so bad that we need to change it. First, as long as it's been since, we haven't received a proposal to change that law. The second is that the law is not good. The scariest thing is when the minister says the law isn't good and that's why he shouldn't apply it, he should be able to buy in the butic wagons. That's inadmissible. Examples could be arranged by the end of the day, you would probably have to extend your working hours, order how many violations of the law, how many affairs there are, how many criminal acts, because ministers have admitted themselves, Djelic himself admitted those huge millions of euros. He said he earned them as an expert. What expert? An expert in theft, of course. Then we now have Minister Dinkic, who is proof that he is destroying Serbia that prize he won yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. That's proof of what we've been saying here for years. So it's hard to find the name of a minister in this government that we could say, come on, if this one swears to the honorable word, maybe so. It is difficult to find such ones, and there are many, ladies and gentlemen, who, and I have already cited some, as well as concrete examples, who have instructed us to propose this amendment, to erase this explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is also unacceptable. The government says it does not accept the amendment of Alexander Vukic, as it considers the text of the bill to be more appropriate to the solemn act of swearing an oath. Please, the solemn act has nothing to do with this. The truth is, taking an oath is a solemn act, first of all, for those who take an oath, but that one must deserve to be a solemn act and those before whom the oath is taken. The solemn act isn't just a nice suit, a beautiful tie, and "my mother" and "my honor." No, the solemn act, ladies and gentlemen, obliges, the oath obliges the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, not to kidnap, steal, steal, rob, rob from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to give citizens of the Republic of Serbia new jobs, and not to kidnap those they already have, that they will enable pensioners of the Republic of Serbia, or pensions from which they can live, that they will take care of all citizens of Serbia, not only themselves, and of their nearest party, responsible, workers, for which we have already said, you set up agencies, commissions, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you accept this amendment because such an oath is binding upon the ministers. Just so someone doesn't ask the question that was asked when Mr. Nenada Chanka's amendment, which, combined with our amendment, could be applied. So there's no law that would force the ministers to respond; in that case, it's about property responsibility, and in this case, they'll probably be talking about some other responsibility. It's just amazing. Every law, ladies and gentlemen, including the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, applies to ministers, above all, to ministers. The matter to the absent minister. Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration, and I liked what Mr Nikolic said, 'against local self-government', if you give an honorable word that you will respect article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government and Put Off the Force Act, which illegally Vice-President of the Assembly Zoran Alimpic was elected president of the Belgrade City Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8496	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, to inform you and ask some questions that are very important to our citizens. First of all, I would like to inform you that the previous weekend of the SPS delegation, led by the vice-president of the Assembly, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, has visited more villages and places in the pleasure area. In one of the villages called Stapari, in conversation with citizens, we learned many of their torments and troubles. One of the biggest troubles these citizens have pointed out is that they still don't have an asphalt road, which they've been promised long ago, and, for God's sakes, and for which they've provided some means to help build it. Also, the home of culture in that village has been torn down and it is impossible to use for the purposes for which it was built. There are no access roads to most villages, such as Tupanj, Jasice, Stara Pruga, etc. The phones they use are more unusable than usable. They have to pray and water a lamppost if they want to get in touch with someone they care about. Electricity has not been brought into every village and every house, and they have a big problem with drinking water. Many MPs here advocate and often say that Serbia is in the 21st century. Trust me, for these citizens, not that it's not the 21st century, but it hasn't arrived in the 20th century yet. We have to take care of citizens like this. When we talk about Serbia's even development, we need to know that this is how our citizens pay taxes today and that they really have to have better treatment than they have. The citizens of this neighborhood also deal with agriculture and they tell us they have a big problem, like the biggest potato manufacturers, with no one to sell it to. A few hundred tons of potatoes had to be thrown, and our country is still importing potatoes today. What I wanted most to report on is that citizens are bitter about the irresponsibility of the state authorities, who, in addition to more promises, have not yet compensated for the damage from the 1999 bombing of NATO. By the way, this is all near Ponikva Airport. We have a case with Mr. Viktor Perisic's family, who delivered data that the state has owed him over a million dinars from that day forward for the destroyed buildings, which are truly assessed by state institutions for so much funds. I believe that, with interest, it's a much larger number today. I must tell you that this story may not have caused so much effect on the two of us who were there, that the two beautiful girls, the daughter of the gentleman mentioned, did not bring about their sad fate, in what conditions they live in, in what conditions they school. We think that the state of Serbia must take much more account of this future generation, because they are the future of Serbia, they are the result of the fight we are fighting for, which is the rejuvenation of Serbia. Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, please take these documents and forward them to the Ministers in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8498	I thank Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. Let's take a break. Resume session is at 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8499	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work this afternoon. The amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic has been discussed. There is a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8500	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, should - and Mr. Minister, although Mr. Minister is not here, but nevertheless, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I would like to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, as we talk about the set of these laws, the amendments to the set of these laws, the Law on Government and the Law on State Administration, the salaries of civil servants and deputies, the strike of workers' unions in the state administration, local self-government, justice and other state bodies. They addressed the Socialist Party a few days ago, knowing that the Socialist Party is the only right left, to fight for the workers' rights of all, to start from those who are in production, to those who are not in the direct process of production, health workers, miners, and workers in the state administration and local self-government. In fact, these workers represent a truly blood flow of one state's functioning, they directly look after the government's budget and local self-government, but they are, unfortunately, another target group that has been decommissioned lately. They are concerned, they want to correct a typical capitalist law, a law on salaries of civil servants and tenants, which includes 13 paying groups, eight paying classes and a range of coefficients that is between one and nine, which would mean that someone could practically receive 13,000 dinars a month, and someone could receive, in that same service, 130 thousand dinars a month. It is, exactly, what bothers people, that most of those services are damaged, disfigured, and only one minority, civil servants appointed by position, should be politically rewarded. What's their request? Their requirement is to reduce the ratio range, to be at least one to six. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing the fact that, in the lack of money, the rewards of political merits and all those who have done the job in the election campaign, and who should be doing the job in the next election campaigns, are being brought into such a position that they are rewarded, but the money of those who have been disbursed and of whom the money has been taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8501	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8502	The replica based on the presentation of Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic, who spoke at the morning session, as the last speaker. In fact, Mr Zeljko Vasiljevic said that a SPS delegation, headed by Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic, was visiting the pleasure area, so he made impressions about the state of the delegation in one of the villages they visited. I don't understand why they're using that opportunity now and where they've just chosen the pleasure region, when Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic, as far as I know, lives in Belgrade. They could have visited some other villages, where the SPS took part in power. I feel the responsibility to say a few words about his exposure, because the exhibition said that the situation in the village of Stapari, which is 12 kilometers from Užica, is disastrous. I've been president of the municipality for seven years, and I feel responsible for saying a few words about it. So the village of Stapari is no different from hundreds of villages in Serbia and, more or less, the situation is similar or the same as in other villages. I can even tell you that there are villages in the pleasure municipality where the infrastructure is worse than in the Stapars, and there are villages in which it is better. I'd like to tell you that, about 2,000 years ago, when we came to power in Uzica, we found the Stapari school that was sneezing, which had no wet knots, so the children went to the Polish toilet, we found the infirmary for which the foundations were laid, namely, twice the foundation for the construction of that infirmary by local SPS representatives, who were in power, and after that we built that infirmary. I wish that you, led by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, whom, by the way, I respect and respect as Vice President of the Assembly, have visited, for example, the location of the old, collapsed post office in Užica, which the Užići popularly refer to as "Mrkonjića bar". The old post office is on the edge of the square and was collapsed in NATO bombing in 1999. Mr. Mrkonjic, in the SPS campaign, arrived at the end of 1999, I don't remember exactly when he set up the cornerstone for the construction of that post, dragged in all possible and impossible machinery, which worked there for three days, and then left the site. The day-day is the "Murb of the Bar", which is only buried and serves as a temporary parking lot. I told you all this not because of you, but because of Uzician, who knows quite well how much you worked in election campaigns and how you worked. It is not right for you to choose a village now and say that it has a catastrophic situation, when, more or less, there are hundreds of such villages in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8503	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8504	I didn't understand if the gentleman wanted to answer me or if he was speaking against his authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8505	You must appeal to a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8506	I'm sorry, Art. 225 and 226. You said it was "Sniffhole." In 1999, a man came and laid a cornerstone, and since 2000, you have been in power and still call it "Mrnjića Hole". I don't know where the hole is, if the hole in the logic that you're putting that problem on here, or if it's a hole, really, that hasn't been done yet. Does it mean you don't have any mail in Uzic, if you haven't been able to turn that "Gunhole" into mail? I don't know, really, if you wanted to point out the success or failure of your authority here, noting these facts. I know Mr. Mrkonjic doesn't need my protection, and I really didn't come out to defend him, but I wanted to say what I said in the Rules of Procedure, as the last speaker in the afternoon session, which is not my impression, it's not just my impression, it's the impression of people living in the Stapars. I listed to you, by name and last name, a family that has been owed millions of dinars since 1999 for destroyed buildings. I've led you to a family that doesn't have a way to go to their house, has no electricity. I don't know what else I was supposed to say without you thinking I was saying that against your authority. I really didn't know you were the president of the Uzic municipality, I didn't know you were in power for seven years, I don't know who's in power today, and I'm not interested in that. When I express the impressions of the citizens who turn to us, believe me, I only express what they have given us, no impressions of themselves. I am a Belgrader, but that doesn't mean I don't have the right to go to Uzice or any other part of this country and to be interested in the situation in that region. Dear sir, my dear colleague, it would be an honor to have all the MPs come out here and bring out such examples of life, because then citizens will have the impression that we are, right now, doing for them what they expect us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8507	The word is from MP Vladan Vukicevic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8508	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, it is evident that we still do not know the date of the election campaign, but what is certain is that the pre-election campaign has already begun, both in this home and across Serbia. It is understandable that MPs are investing amendments and using them for election campaigns. What is not appropriate to an individual, an MP, a serious man, is that, by discussing amendments, in an unserious way, you are criticising the great people, without one single piece of evidence. We've had opportunities to hear an MP who criticized the entire government, that they were all immoral, unfair. Of course, Serbia should understand that one who criticises others is unfair and fair. As far as honesty and morality are concerned, approximately, every man is born honestly, so after school, society shapes him and, of course, throughout life, many people stray from the path of honesty, so they go into dishonesty. But the family has a great role to play in creating one man's personality. Political struggle can be moral, may be immoral. It's moral when, on the basis of evidence, arguments, you criticize someone and say that they're immorally honest, and it's immoral when you express the immorality of other people without proof, that you would, of course, prove your morality. It's all politics. The criticism of everything and everything cost Serbia a lot. I simply cannot believe that nothing positive can happen to the Serbian people without someone coming out to criticise it. It suits me, as a man, when the World Organization gives someone credit for being the best, so be it, even, as well as the headlines of some leaves, so on. The yellow press, they say -- someone bought something. If you can buy the world, it's an art, it's a positive. He asks the question, why didn't those who criticized it today buy the world when the world bombed us? It would be fortunate for us if they were so moral, capable, creative, that they could buy the world and bypass Serbia's evil that happened to us at that time. If this speaker could talk, she would have something to say about many, their morality or immorality would be fragrant today, but, unfortunately, she can't talk. As for the amendment submitted by the SRS, I'd like to comment on a few things. It's called this - I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia, normally, that's good, and I pledge to unconditionally protect its sovereignty and its overall territory. That's something that's okay, but I don't know what to add now -- including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. It's like when you suspect that Kosovo and Metohija are not in Serbia, so now you include it, which is kind of depressing for people living in Kosovo and Metohija. We suspect that they are somewhere, so we are now supporting the Republic of Serbia and its integrity, including some part of it. There is no reason to degrade these people, devalue them, there is no reason to separate them from Serbia's integrity. Serbia is unique, because, then, the question would now be asked -- why didn't we bring it here and Vojvodina? How come now so much morality and so much concern for Kosovo and Metohija and so much concern for Vojvodina? Simply, Serbia has its borders, Kosovo and Metohija are within these borders and there is no reason for this populist addition of great concern for Kosovo and Metohija. Everyone's here, every political party has had the opportunity to show a certain period of great concern for these people, to help them and to solve their problem. The problem to this day is not solved, which means it's much more complex and that it exceeds our possibilities at the moment. He says - I swear to the Constitution and the law and the duty of a member of the government I will carry out safe and responsible. And that - safe and responsible, it's now an individual's thing again, as your job understands, what it is to do the job safely and responsibly. I think it's an appropriate current oath, which says, I swear by my honor. A man's born honest, he's built up, he needs to be honest, and he's got his own honor. The honor and morality of one person can be personal, family, and of course, people in life struggle to be honorable and moral. I don't see a moment where someone can give themselves the right to say -- this minister is immoral, the president of the state is dishonest, the Prime Minister is dishonest, I'm immoral, and I'm the one who's moral, because I've criticized everything that they're immoral. I think one such relationship in this House is hurting all of us. Cheap are also poor political points when, criticising others without any evidence or argument, except, as women say, the stories of the tell-tales, you think you'll get political support, positive points. I must say, in the end, that we of the ruling majority are wrong. We're wrong to keep the individual's attitudes silent. We are silent in the desire for Serbia to adopt as many laws as possible, to join the civilized world as possible, to join the EU, forgetting that "three times a spoken lie becomes the truth". Those who listen now to these'moral', who criticise those'moral', for God's sake, if that happens often, people will think it's true, and it's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish. All of you who think they're terribly sinful people who represent this country today, please, take your evidence, you have judicial authorities. Why do you point it out here, criticise these people, and not initiate actions guaranteed by law and constitution? That's why New Serbia and its MPs don't have that attitude towards people. When we criticise, show and prove it, we do not want to present unargued lies, because it will not do us any good, but it will certainly do Serbia and the Serbian people great harm. I'd end up with a reminder of what it's like when this pay phone comes from critics to the world. Let's just think of those discussions in style - Tony Blair, his clumsy ears, Albright is like this or something, and that cost Serbia that Tony Blair could turn to Solana, so he could say, how many planes are going to Serbia today, go three, step up to six, because yesterday they said that he had clamping ears. It cost Serbia a lot. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this Parliament and the citizens of Serbia, from this pay phone, deserve a much greater responsibility for individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8509	The People's MP, Verica Radeta, was recognized in this presentation, so she appears in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8510	Mr. Albianic, I'd like to ask you, here, I'm going to step away from the pay phone for a moment, to read to me where it says that you, as chairman, when I raised the Rules of Procedure, you can say - the MP was recognized in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8511	Mrs. Radeta, I'll give you your time back, but let me tell you, you told me from the scene, I recognized myself. During the first part of Mr. Vukevic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8512	Mr. Albianic, I tell you from the scene very often - don't beat Miæo, you're wrong, Mico, don't lie, and you don't take it out of here, from that place. What I'm telling you from the scene, here, I'm telling you, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8513	Can you explain your report to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8514	Mr. Albianic, take care, refrain from commenting in the future. It's true, I'm referring to Article 101, but I'm the one who needs to say which member I'm referring to. Article 101 says, "If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended by an MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name, or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication." On this basis, Mr. Albianic, I'm replicating and now you're giving me my time, because I'm just starting now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8515	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8516	Thank you. So, counterpart Vukevic reported after the amendment to try to defend some members of the government. Of course, it is known that his defence applies exclusively to Velimir Ilic. It's his right, he's his minister, but it's amazing how many completely unsuspecting sentences your colleagues have spoken here and that you, Mr. Albianic, have not responded, because you've been following, I suppose, what someone from the bench throws at you, and it's yours to listen to the MP and to listen to him after his presentation, and not during the course of his exposure, distract him or, possibly, warn him, if he said something that doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8517	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8518	I told you, when the People's Messenger is finished, not that you're getting into the word, but that's not going to happen to Mitchie. So, Mr Vukevic said that he did not know that the election campaign had already started, but that some MPs, thought of, of course, the MPs of the SRS, had started the pre-election campaign by submitting amendments to the laws. I'm going to cross this place, I can't believe someone who's been an MP for years thinks the MP has no obligation to submit amendments, but to use the amendments in the election campaign. This is, indeed, amazing, as it is amazing, and you, Mr. Albianic, did not react when you talked about how someone who thinks morals is critical of someone he thinks is immoral, and then said that the family has a role in forming the moral personality of every man. Mr. Vucicevic, what you said was all about what I said in the afternoon. It's unacceptable for you to talk about my family or anyone's family this way. Take care of what you're talking about. If you're defending Velya, you have to take care of yourself in a way. You say we criticise that Mladjan Dinkic won a prize there, so you add - if you can buy everything, it's art. No, Mr. Vucicevic, the way the members of this government buy everything is not a skill, but a crime. If this pay phone could talk, she could say anything about the MPs. Didn't anyone tell you so far, Mr. Vucicevic, that there are stenographic notes being kept, that the Assembly is being transmitted directly and that the pay phone doesn't have to speak, everything is heard and everything remains written down about who says and who does what. It bothers you that our oath, or amendment, stands -- including Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Vucicevic, it is a provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Didn't we all agree, or most of us. Let me finish, or I'll call you back, however you like, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8519	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8520	So, Kosovo and Metohija are particularly stressed in the preamble of the Constitution, and we all agreed that it was because of the specific situation, because of what is now happening in Kosovo and Metohija, because of what is happening at international level and because of the resolution of the Kosovo and Metohija issues. It's perfectly logical that it's contained in this oath. You say, why did we write - all safe and responsible? Mr. Vukicevic, because there is an unconscious and irresponsible act of crime in the Criminal Code. A very clear explanation. Just two more sentences, please. You say these are cheap and pathetic political points. Your political points are expensive and cost the citizens of Serbia, each fivekm of stolen asphalt off the highway, Mr. Vucicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8521	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. We've got to get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8522	Here, I'm done, just another sentence. The only thing that's right is what Mr. Vukevic said is that we're criticizing "immoral," and they're moral. It's true, you didn't put us under quotes as moral, because we're moral, and we're safe, and we're self-aware, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8523	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mrs. Veronica Radeta listened and didn't hear what I said. I didn't say for a moment that the amendments were used in the election campaign, but -- using the amendments. It's two different concepts, but well, maybe something can be explained to someone, and someone can't, because someone doesn't want to understand. What is very important for the ruling coalition MPs, and especially for the New Serbia and DSS MPs, we do not mind Kosovo and Metohija, we have won elections in Kosovo and Metohija and we have won. We do not feel that there is any need to clarify this now and to make it particularly clear in the amendment, because we know where Serbia's borders are. Within Serbia's borders is both Kosovo and Metohija and there is no reason to doubt that it will not be so, or to expect it not to be so, which someone might like and want it to be so. We want to protect not our MPs, our ministers, but to be reasoned and clear, to be fair to them, and our ministers represent our country. I don't see any reason anyone can afford to criticise their own country by unargumented spit and talk from this pay phone whatever he wants. It is true that the Rules of Procedure are extremely democratically oriented, that it is written democraticly and that it can be used for these purposes. Imagine, when someone says, you defend not the ministers, but your minister, because he steals so many asphalts on the road! Is that a story from personal experience? Is that a story and do you regret not being able to do it or have any arguments to prove it? Or do you want to throw everything that is successful and what results in this Serbia under your feet and criticize? I'm sorry, Velimir Ilic, you can transfer everything, but you can't transfer it to him that he's not a hardworking and hardworking man, you can't transfer it to him because these results are visible; Serbian citizens travel every day and they simply feel and see it. Talking here about individuals the way you think someone likes to hear, it's not good for you. In the end, I think every success of our man in the world is a success that should be respected, the worst is when we rock him here. That means we don't even know how much we appreciate those who know how to appreciate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8525	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8526	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 1, says - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. On this basis, I volunteered for the replica, because Mr. Vukevic really spoke offensively about me, about the MP. True, he only said his name, not his last name, but I'm the only one with that name. Clearly, he meant me. Mr. Vukevic says that in the election campaign, amendments are not submitted, but amendments are used. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Mr. Vukicevic, to you as well as to the assembly majority, we know it, it bothers us to submit amendments, but we understand perfectly what the work of the MP is, and we will always do so, and you have obviously been given the task of having to, from time to time, to pick up, and then to sit in this room a little bit, so it bothers you, but what to do to you. Serbian Radical Party MPs know their jobs, sit in this hall, explain the amendments, participate in the debate. So we're doing everything that the citizens of Serbia sent us here to do. Mr. Albianic, you did not warn or reprove a colleague, Vukicevic, when he said someone could be explained and not someone. If you thought there was something you couldn't explain to me, you've made a terrible mistake, Mr. Vukevic. If you think you're smarter, smarter, damn, you're not. We can measure. I wish you'd explained it to us, Mr. Vucicevic, when you said you received the largest number of votes in Kosovo and Metohija, which is you. Are you counting you and Boris Tadic, or is it the Democratic Party of Serbia, or are they "you"? You're a very colorful coalition now, you know? Are you and G17 plus? Are you even? That's the basic question. It bothers you, I repeat, what stands in our amendment. I stress, Mr. Vucicevic, take the Constitution, read the preamble. What we have proposed in our oath is absolutely the consequence of what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You say -- you know the boundaries, you know the outlines of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the constitution has it regulated, but how then could Dragan Jocic say that the Serbian state's borders would be deleted on the passport of the Republic of Serbia? Is that saying anything to you, Mr. Vukevic? I see you're not listening to me, you've been assigned to report twice, you've finished yours, and you don't care. You're saying we're criticizing the state because we're criticizing the ministers. No, we're guarding the state because we're criticizing the ministers. And for Mr. Velimir Ilic, I didn't say he wasn't working, he wasn't worth it. Special work and agile appeared when he tried to save animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8527	Mrs. Radeta, please take care. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 4? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before the debate on the amendment begins, Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Mr. Todorovic, you answered your word, so you gave up, so you answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8528	Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand you. You know, I called the Rules of Procedure, and it was my turn to be given the word immediately after the presentation of Mrs. Radeta. Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8529	I'll give you your time back. At one point you gave up that word, so you re-applyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8530	I followed your practice, you'll have to give me my time again, because you've given some MPs your word here, it's been explained to you - for continuity, because if any other MPs pass with their presentations, you won't know the essence. I've only respected your former remarks. Now I'd like to ask you to give me back my time. I'm reporting for an officer. 40, 44 and 79, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, which says that, after the search has been completed, the Committee shall submit a report to the National Assembly containing the opinion and proposals of the Committee. The Committee shall determine the rapporteur who, where appropriate, shall explain the committee’s report at the meeting of the National Assembly. As you know, at 10 o'clock today, immediately after the start of the work of the National Assembly, the president of the Assembly scheduled a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to insist on the Serbian Radical Party, with the intention of setting up the Committee in connection with the election call for the mayor of Belgrade, given that the legal conditions of Article 42 have taken place. Law on local self-government. It was necessary for the Constitutional Committee, given that the issue was also being met by the Legislative Committee, to make it very precise for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and for the citizens of Serbia, whether MPs of the ruling coalition, the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, to advocate respect for the constitution or not. Serbian Radical Party MPs have presented a number of convincing reasons to support the assembly's president's obligation to call elections for Belgrade's mayor. Unfortunately, the voting machine, the majority of which you formed, came back into practice even though you disagreed with each other on that committee. Some also respected the arguments of the SRS. Your only interest, which is survival in power, has led you to vote against the SRS proposal. But, gentlemen, it would be my turn, I know that there is a number of you who are not comfortable with this decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is what it is, should, however, have the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, come up with a report, so that with this report, you and all MPs of the Republic of Serbia, before the citizens of Serbia, and we have something to say about this issue, that there is no confusion, that we should say how this decision has been taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you, in accordance with your powers, with the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament, to request a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to allow the Members of the Serbian Parliament to get acquainted and to say what they think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8531	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8532	Mr. Albianic, I strongly recommend that you ask one of the vice presidents to take over for you there, you are obviously not today, otherwise you are not, and today you are not particularly prepared for this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8533	Now I'm going to ask Mr. Mrkonjic, he's going to replace me immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8534	Mr. Albianic, will you once learn that you have no right to interrupt the MP, that you must wait for me to finish and then, if I have sinned against the Rules of Procedure, give me a warning. How many times do I have to tell you? You should read article 27 if you don't find it very difficult. Here, since this seems to be not working out for you - the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. I don't know if there's a need, Mr. Albianic, to read to you now that you, while in that place, are actually acting as National Assembly President, are obliged, among other things, to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies. That's exactly what Mr. Todorovic just warned you about. You were under obligation, Mr Albianić, to reply, in accordance with Article 100(3), or explain to him about the remarks Mr Todorovic made here. You just said yes, I didn't answer. Well, we've noticed that you haven't answered, but you have to, Mr. Albianic, answer, or say, "people, I really can't do this, I can't take my resignation, let someone else do it, who might know a little better." I volunteered on the basis of Article 1st, Article 100. - to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. You just failed to comply with that article, Mr. Albianic. I really don't know how to reason with you, to explain that you can't interrupt me while I'm talking, because I didn't do anything wrong about the Rules of Procedure, on the contrary, quote him, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8535	I want to give you back your time, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8536	Don't return anything, I hope you've made sure that I quoted two articles in 100, that I quoted Article 27. If you're not able to follow that, at least how many MPs are quoted by the Rules of Procedure, then I really don't know what you're doing here. You know, it's very simple for you. When the MP says I quote, you press the buttons there. When the MP says - the quote is completed, you press the buttons again and that machine automatically rejects your time. You don't need that much brains, just learn to type those buttons, Mr. Albianic. So you just acted completely contrary to article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, because you did not give me the word as soon as I asked for it for the Rules of Procedure, secondly, because you did not answer Mr Dragan Todorovic's question about the work of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. There was a rumor here that this Rules of Procedure was written democratically. However, I did not understand how this rules of procedure is written democratically, but we are telling you that this rules of procedure are very restrictive, that there are many restrictions. Now, your problem is probably how the MPs of the SRS, and besides, manage to say what they think they should say from this place, but I really can't help you. I repeat to you, who knows how many times, that we will use our business rights, that we will address, first of all, the public of Serbia, and the Business, because it is the only way to explain to the citizens of Serbia, let's say, the fact that Serbia is in a completely unconstitutional state, that President of the Assembly Oliver Dulic, President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica do not respect the Constitution, that in the most harsh way possible they violate it, that we do not have a Constitutional Court today, that we do not have a law on the Constitutional Court, that we do not have a set of laws necessary under the Law on the implementation of the Constitution and that no one in this country, I think of those who are in the state, do not care. This is Mr. Milan Markovic. Mr. Toma Nikolic allowed me to use his copyright and call you Minister for State Administration and Against Local Self-Government, I liked it very much. So we expect you, Mr. Minister, to answer these questions that Mr. Albianic does not know how to answer, because it is in your jurisdiction. I asked you today, in your absence, honorable words to you, honoring Titus's words, as you swear, will you honor article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government, will you annul the Act of the City Assembly, which is illegal, unconstitutional and anti-business?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8537	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I accept the remark that I did not respond to Mr. Todorovic. On the basis of Articles 44 and 77. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are also working by congregation committees. I ask the Secretary of the Committee to prepare an appropriate report to the members of the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to the presidents of the parliamentary groups to the Vice-Presidents, and they, in accordance with democracy in their parliamentary groups, will deliver this to all MPs who wish to do so. I don't know about anything else, that you need to do more, more, more, etc. If there is any conclusion of the Constitutional Committee which is greater than that, then forward it to all MPs, in accordance with the conclusion. Thank you very much. You're not satisfied with the answer, Mr. Todorovic? We're not going to vote on members who are indisputable, they're not a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not worth holding back at Mice's. Instead of answering immediately, there is always another problem that Mr Albianic literally interprets the Rules of Procedure, because, in Article 100, Article 3, it is said that the president of the National Assembly is obliged to, after giving a statement from the MPs, make an explanation. Since Mr Albianic is not the speaker of the assembly, he felt he should not give an answer. I recommend, Mr. Albianic, that in situations where you are unable to respond immediately, you say one common thing, which, I think, will be acceptable to every MP - that you disagree with the question. It would free you from any responsibility and need to give any answer. I'm surprised by another thing, sir, Albianic, that you, where you are, do not contribute to the better work of the Serbian Parliament and do not advocate respecting the Rules of Procedure, that we do not come into the situation we are in right now. It means that the committees in charge are working in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, not that you are now finding various interpretations, which give you services, to justify the unhappiness of the committee. There's no reason for that. The board was sitting, we discussed in a democratic way, without any problems. Everyone's given their opinion. Therefore, professional services were present at the Committee's session and it is common, I know that you all have been sitting in parliamentary benches for a long time, that the report, the board's materials, is being delivered 30 minutes after the board's session is over. Why has no report of the Constitutional Affairs Committee been submitted? What reason is that? You've made the decision you've made, and now you'd like to, without a report, bury it, in a way that would make it impossible for the report to be declared and the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. We want not only to inform the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, but also the citizens of Serbia, to see how you advocate respect for the Constitution and legality, as advocated by the Constitutional Affairs Committee when it decides, most of it, that the president of the Assembly should not, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, call elections for the mayor of Belgrade. You're only doing it for one reason, because you can't go to the polls, because you're smaller than a mack's grain, because you know you have nothing to look for in the election. That's the only reason. How do you have the nerve to demand elections for the president of Serbia or any of the others?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8539	I ask the congregation services to act in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to resolve it. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 226, I request two information. First information - what the Minister of Local Self-Government has done for the conclusion of the Committee's local self-government to, on the basis of Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government uses acts on the election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, deputy president of the Belgrade City Assembly and some kind of V.D. Deputy President of the Belgrade City Assembly? The Committee on Local Self-Government unanimously concluded that it obliges the Ministry of Local Self-Government to apply the measures set out in Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government and to put outside the legal force acts passed at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly on 8 October 2007, which are absolutely unfounded in the Law on Local Self-Government. Other information is related to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As soon as a question is raised on the agenda of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, it is also a signal to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament behind Serbia's public that it is a matter of exceptional political importance. Today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we tried to determine whether the president of the National Assembly is obliged to call elections for mayor of Belgrade or not. The position of the SRS on this issue is completely unequivocal. We insist that the president of the Serbian Parliament call the elections in accordance with the current law on local self-government and ask that Serbia's public, that all MPs be informed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, by overvoted the SRS MPs, has made a completely unconstitutional and illegal decision, under which the National Assembly president is not obliged to call elections for Belgrade's mayor. So I'm asking the president of the National Assembly to make a statement about it. He's the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. Today he chaired the committee's session. I ask that the National Assembly be informed why so far we have not received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and why the public of Serbia is not yet able to get acquainted with the flagrant violation of the Constitution and the laws that, unfortunately, are taking place under the lines of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask that the Ministry of Local Self-Government, or Minister, be declared, as well as that the President of the National Assembly informs the MPs of why the report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs session has not been found before the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8541	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8542	On the basis of Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, I request an explanation from the minister, given that he attends this session, to tell the Serbian MPs whether he has received all the material related to the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, since the session was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, where, on the basis of the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government, the ministry should be informed of the facts that took place in the Belgrade City Assembly on 8 October. I suppose the minister did not have time to get to know the facts in detail, although a flight survey, i.e. reading stenographic notes from that session, without any problems, would allow the current minister to make the only possible decision when it comes to decisions of the Belgrade City Assembly and that, on the basis of Article 111, Law on local self-government, annul the decision on the election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, vice-president of the Belgrade City Assembly and deputy V.D. The mayor. These are the things we have warned and said that we will not allow after 1990, since the multi-party started, for the first time in such a way, drastically, in violation of both the Constitution and the Law, and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, that, thanks to majorisation, the majority of which the DS and DSS have, it is impossible for other parties in the Assembly of Belgrade to also propose candidates for the president and vice-president of the Assembly, and that it is the place of deputy V.D. the mayor, absolutely, by law, past the Statute, past the Rules of Procedure, and that these three acts must be annulled. I believe the minister did not have the opportunity to get acquainted with the stenogram, but we will take advantage of his presence in the Republika Srpska Assembly and we will begin to read a stenogram from the Belgrade City Assembly session, precisely making sure that we do not miss a single word, although I believe that, after certain facts that we have presented, it will be clear to you what has happened. Still, we warned about this. I'm finishing up and reporting to the Rules of Procedure. We have warned you of your obligation to work in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8543	Stay right away, since no one's answered the Rules of Procedure. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: I answered.) ) I'm counting on you to let him go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8545	Thank you. We want to work on the Rules of Procedure and we will not question the Rules of Procedure at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8546	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Verica Radet, but the minister contacted at the same time. (The Belief of Radeta, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, the minister has the advantage. ) You're my advisor to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8548	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are three issues that are largely present in our political public and in the public at all. One question is Knic, where the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government is mentioned, that is, where a certain interpretation is required by the ministry, and the other two questions are precisely issues which the distinguished colleagues mentioned earlier. I'd like to say that the Ministry of the City of Belgrade is a member of 107. The Law on Local Self-Government, requested a report from the Assembly session of 8 October 2007, the minutes from that session, the Statute of the City, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and all other documentation necessary to resolve the situation. After receiving this report, the Ministry will establish a factual state and act in accordance with its powers. It is a regular procedure to be applied in all similar cases. Therefore, it is necessary to obtain from the local self-government unit to which the application of the relevant document relates. Also, the Committee for Local Self-Government asked for an opinion on the issue of calling local elections in Belgrade. Tomorrow, officially, by the ministry, an opinion will be given on the mayoral election in Belgrade, so I would ask that the rest of the day, these two hours left, be devoted to the laws that are on the agenda. As Minister in front of the government, I'm here both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, most likely Monday, so we'll have time to discuss these topics as well. Let us allow the City Hall to provide us with proper documentation. As for the municipality of Knić, I would also like to inform that we have requested all documents from SO Knić and that, unfortunately, SO Knić has not delivered the minutes from the disputed session, i.e. sessions whose validity is being challenged, and this is an extraordinary session, when the president of SO has been replaced. Anyway, we'll make sure we get the documents we need as soon as possible. I'm sure you'll be informed of the Ministry's views on these matters in good time. Once again, I appeal to fellow Members of the People to continue our work on what are the points of the agenda. Further discussion on this subject will not bring us results. I repeat, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow I'm here as the minister in charge. Believe me, you'll get your first opinion tomorrow, second, the moment we get the proper paperwork from the City Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8549	I thank the minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. (All MPs reported to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8550	It is a pleasure to see the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, who have finally understood the importance of happening in the Belgrade City Assembly and who will best express their views to the citizens of Serbia and say what they think about the events in the Belgrade City Assembly. Mr. Minister, let me inform you that, with regard to these so-called so-called. Games without borders, on the basis of which you think you will extend the situation in which we are located, i.e. the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, you are a terrible cheater and that it would be much better if you had acted in accordance with our well-intentioned remarks, the desire to resolve this problem in the simplest way. Mr. Minister, you belonged to a group that at one point, when she thought it was damaged, went to the streets, pots, pots, whistles, etc., so at one point you asked for help and your mentors on the side, so came "fast Gonzales", and then Lex specialises, etc. Mr. Minister, we're not going to ask for a speedy Gonzales, we're enough for you ourselves. We will convince you, without any problem, that you must act in accordance with the law and the Constitution. When you receive a report from the Belgrade City Assembly, I expect that, in accordance with your powers and in line with democratic traditions and contributions to the work of the Serbian Parliament, your parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament will ask for a survey committee to be set up, to see what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly. I think that after one six months of the polling committee meeting to conclude, I suppose in that time the president of the assembly could, perhaps, call the elections for local self-government, that the issue raised by the SRS is completely unfounded, because we are going to new elections. Under the new law, it is unlikely that the presidents of the municipality, or mayors, will be elected. During that time, you will manage the third budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the city of Belgrade, in an unconstitutional, illegal and anti-business manner, from where you think you are going to go to a pre-election campaign for the presidential elections. Mr. Minister, I'm telling you in advance, it won't work. We think this is going to be a short trip. We'll read you the stenographic notes. We'll give you one copy to follow, that you don't think we're going to abuse you in any way or let you know in a false way what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8551	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. One moment, Verice, I'm asking the head of the Parliament Group, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, and then please raise all the Rules of Procedure so the service can see. Here you go, Mrs. Verica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8552	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since you said I was your advisor to the Rules of Procedure, here, I suggest you take a list of MPs and read in alphabetical order, because it's obvious that everyone will speak in the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Milan Markovic, I remind you that you've stopped being a MP the moment you voted for yourself to be a minister. So from this place, don't speak to us as a fellow MP and don't tell us what the MPs are supposed to do. You're not here, as you said, in front of the government. You are here on behalf of the Government, but you are in front of the MPs and MPs answer the question, Mr. Milan Markovic. Why no elections are scheduled within the time limit laid down in Article 42. Law on local self-government, elections for mayor of Belgrade? This is something that surprised us very much, because we expected Article 42 to be respected, where it says that the president of the National Assembly is calling, within 15 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the president of the municipality, if there is no less than six months left for the president of the municipality. Mr Oliver Dulic informed us yesterday that he does not know and that no one lives knows when the local elections will be held. That means he doesn't even know if it's been six months, whether it's gonna be six months. So the obligation to vote for mayor existed and Parliament's president had to carry out the obligation by last Friday. Why didn't you call those elections if we read in Gilas' newspaper that you have 10, 20, 50 rival candidates, or candidates who can, as Boris Tadic likes to say, stand on the line of the Serbian Radical Party candidate? It seems to us that they're just writing Gilas' paper, and in reality, and that you're afraid of the SRS and our candidate, not only in the mayoral, but in other elections. As Mr Todorovic said, we will quote the minutes from the Belgrade City Assembly session, I will read one for me very interesting part. He's only on page 48, though. According to Zeljko Ožegovic, he seems to me to be the chairman of the DS parliamentary group, but I know that the president of the "yellow" municipality is a new Belgrade municipality: "Respected committeemen, Mr Alimpic earlier said, at one point, that an agreement was made between political parties here and that no one really wanted to benefit from the political event that took place in the city of Belgrade, and I think that's totally fine." Now listen to the pearl: "What's going on here, it seems to me that certain political groups just want out of getting certain benefits. I really don't see any problem with them proposing, too, candidates for the president of the assembly, because, as we know, all the media have announced what will happen at this session. So the call for this assembly arrived early. 'Trust it or not, the chairman of the DS parliamentary group believes that what we hear on television is an official notice for a councilman or a MP. This is how the National Assembly worked at the time of Natasa Micic, and it did not last long. Believe me, you won't be able to do this, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue to quote this record, above all, for Serbian citizens to hear what kind of pearls we have among DS officials and how DS is thought to be democratically run by the state, to run the city, to run local self-government, Mr. Minister "against local self-government". Obviously, Mr Tomislav Nikolic characterised you perfectly, because if not, you would have responded to the decision you received from the competent assembly committee. You don't care about that, but believe me, it won't be like that, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8553	I give my word to the minister, then to Mr. Aligrudić. When you're in charge, then you're in charge, and now leave me alone. [[jamour in the O.R.]] Please... I started to throw out MPs. Please calm down and continue the course of the session. Please listen to the minister. (The chairman, Milutin Mrkonjic, left the session to Vice President Natasa Jovanovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8554	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8555	I want to repeat a few things that are obviously the subject of the dispute, and they shouldn't be. Since the law on local self-government has been in place, there has been a number of disputes and problems in various municipalities throughout Serbia. It's something that we've all concluded here in the past few months and something that is well known to our public. So we have serious issues with the application of the Law on Local Self-Government. Whenever problems arise, the Ministry's opinion is sought and there's nothing controversial about it. Whenever the Ministry's opinion is sought, there's always two sides, one that thinks it's something like this, and one that thinks it's something like that. In all these situations, Article 107 shall apply. The Law on Local Self-Government, which clearly speaks about how the Ministry acts, or what it requires of local self-government units, to have documents to resolve the situation. When, after all these documents, the Ministry finds that there are some irregularities, different types, if it is a general act, possible irregularities from the position of the constitutionality, if it is an individual act against which no administrative dispute can be conducted and there is no other type of protection, as a certain group of MPs now suspect, Article 111 shall immediately apply. The Law on Local Self-Government, on the basis of which the Ministry is doing the following: it informs the local self-government unit that it has found that such an act is and is required by the local self-government unit to repeal or abolish the act. If the local self-government unit doesn't do so within a month, then the ministry has the power to do so by its act. I don't argue that you're doing what you're doing. You can do this today, tomorrow, and the day after. It's not my place to argue. Can't you see that, even if, after the documentation collected under Article 107, we can determine what you say it is, the law is prescribing the procedure again, and we, de facto, here can talk a long time about it all. So, the answer to the parliamentary question of one of my colleagues, I forgot my name, I suppose, will arrive at the Assembly by tomorrow. We have informed you that we have already requested all these documents from the City Assembly. So, absolutely, on the same day that State Secretary Radosavljevic was on the Committee on Local Self-Government. Literally, the next day was asked by the City Assembly to deliver those documents. Why are we here for two or three hours to talk about it now, when you see that we've done everything in our jurisdiction. I'm telling you, I'm here tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and you can make sure that all these documents I've given you exist and that we're doing everything that the law obliges us to do. You can make sure we work on the basis of article 107. If the conditions are created, if, in our opinion, there is a basis for the application of Article 111, we will apply Article 111, but you are aware, because you have read as well as I, like everyone here, that Article 111, that and if we find that the individual act does not comply with the statute, etc., we can only order the local self-government unit to correct it, even after a month to undo it. So I don't think there's any more reason to discuss this. I'm really asking you to take advantage of the next two hours and keep working on the amendments. Anything I told you, you can check tomorrow. So the Ministry did everything they could to the Ministry. Legal assessment of the situation will be given by the Ministry when he gets all the documents. I suppose you expect one ministry or anyone serious to assess a legal situation when they take arguments pro et counter, when they add them all together, emulate them and see what the actual state is. It doesn't mean anything to me that you're here now reading from a pay phone of certain council members of the City Assembly, or the Ministry, as a state body, can decide on that basis, and you know it well. When an object is formed, it is formed with the arguments 'yes' and the arguments 'against'. You know that, and in cases when the SRS was interested, that's what we did. You haven't had any objections, at least since I was a minister, and I think when he was my predecessor, he was in this same procedure. You have not made any remarks, and it was the municipalities, as you know, in which, for example, Serbian radicals are in power. At that time, this procedure was quite correct for you. I don't know why you're arguing now that the Ministry is working on the same procedure and why you don't give us time to give our legal assessment. If you disagree with our legal assessment, then criticise the minister. It's your legitimate right, and I'm not getting into it. I really think that if we deal with this subject tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we'll do nothing useful. The only thing we can do is appeal for the documents to be delivered by the City Assembly as soon as possible. The same is true, I repeat and appeal again, and for the Knic Municipality Assembly, about the other issue that is also very important for our public and, in general, for our political practice. Once again, please continue on the agenda and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the moment I sat down for the chair table, on the list of members of Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic and the secretary, Mrs Tamara, were the MPs Momir Markovic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, Slavisa Topalovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nikola Savic. At the time when MPs, all of the SRS, all of the DS, all of the DSS and of the SPS applied for the word in the Rules of Procedure... Mr. Aligrudic, it's really pointless to argue right now. [[jamour in the O.R.]] Please listen to me. I wouldn't want to be in this situation, when, apparently, he was upset with what happened in the O.R., at the moment when the marble occurred, and when all the MPs raised their hand at the same time, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic reacted, I have to act on the Rules of Procedure and what I got from the secretary, which is that first all of these I read call, and then, according to the reports and the power of the political party... (Employees of the ruling coalition are leaving the hall. There's no reason to react like that, Mrs. Kolundjia. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8557	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a strange repression has appeared in the state of Serbia. The Constitution, then the Constitutional Law, then the sublaw, then the laws, then the decisions, in the end, the opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, then Mica Albianic, then some solutions, instead of being completely reversed. I apologize to the ruling coalition MPs for disturbing them with my speech as they leave the assembly hall, but when you leave, there will be someone who will work on behalf and for Serbia's sake. That she's smart, that you've done it before. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2. The law on local self-government is unequivocal. The president of the assembly, within 15 days of the end of the term of office, had to call the mayor's election. That 15th day ended on Friday. Instead of the President of the Assembly's decision to call the election for mayor of Belgrade, we have today received an opinion, more specifically, this second we have received an opinion that does not, in fact, oblige anyone, because the Committee has to reach a conclusion. Opinions don't count, what our people would say. It's like this: 'Article 44. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, held on 23 October 2007, after considering the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the election of mayors of Belgrade, gave the following opinion." Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic signed the opinion, instead of signing an act calling for Belgrade mayor. It says, "Article 3(4). The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that elections for committees in local self-government units must be called by 31 December. On the basis of Articles 191 and 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8558	On the subject of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has been happening in Serbia today, as well as in the city of Belgrade, is nothing new for DOS authorities, which has been ruling since 5 October, so to speak. Like most of the other SRS MPs, I have had many objections and I might appeal to the Constitutional Court for the many irregularities and illegalities that are taking place in our country, but since this government has been working hard to ensure that there is no Constitutional Court until it has completed all its trades, all its negotiations and agreements, we will not have the opportunity to protect the constitutionality and legality in this country, obviously, never. What was happening in the Belgrade City Assembly, which my colleagues spoke of today, shows all Serbian citizens that the government that exists in the city of Belgrade does not want to deal with the law at all and does what the law says. By force, completely unnecessary, they made the choice of president, or acting mayor, and, of course, to the general laughter of all people who were understood in law, deputy executives of the office of mayor, which is nowhere, nor in the Constitution, nor in the Law, nor in the Statute of the City, nor in the Rules of Procedure of the City of Belgrade, etc., and no one, is interested in that. Why aren't they interested? They don't care because you today have to justify that when you start on one side of Belgrade to the other, you have to travel for an hour. You've been traveling for an hour, because of those bridges, which were to be built and built since 2000, there are none. We're still using the old, now reconstructed, railroad bridge, which was built by German occupiers during World War II. There's still that bridge, there's no other bridges. "Gazala" is in catastrophic condition. The start of right-hand reconstruction is announced for next week. It is now a collapse and a chaotic traffic situation in Belgrade, and you can imagine what it will be like then. It's still going a little bit, the streets are tight, there's no strategy, there's no plan to make it easier. Everything else that is done in the city is against the interests of the citizens of Belgrade. At a time when the country is ruled by a social crisis, when economic misery, when the economic situation is so bad, they destroy and destroy kiosks, temporary objects, business facilities to people, they say -- it shouldn't be there, there should be greenery. What do people feed their children from? What are they to survive and what are they to pay taxes to this country that requires them to do so? Because of all this, Serbian citizens want to change, want one new and better Serbia, wants Tomislav Nikolic to beat Boris Tadic and everyone else and want to get serious and fair power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8560	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. Given that I am a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I am sorry that Minister Markovic is not present, because a specific question would be asked to him, which is why representatives of the SRS do not trust the parliamentary majority, especially when it comes to Mr Markovic. The fourth session of the Committee on Local Self-Government was held on 4 September 2007. The agenda was - the Committee's participation in draft laws on local self-government, territorial organisation, local elections and the capital. The Committee president, Mr. Jovan Palalic, has pledged that a new session, session five, will take place in the next 10 days, and that the session is required by the minister of local self-government, Mr. Markovic. It's been a long time, and that promise was nothing. For this very reason, we are sure that Mr. Markovic, as secretary of the board of directors, wants to deceive the public and win the time. Why are the SRS MPs responding? The procedure has not been respected, the decision on the appointment of deputy executive mayors has been given, and we are asking the question - by which member of the Statute, by which member of the Rules of Procedure? It's breaking both the Constitution and the law, as well as all moral norms. Article 42. The law on local self-government defines that the president of the assembly should call elections for mayor of Belgrade, and we know that budgets, current reserves, are about 15m euros. Where is the citizens' electoral commitment, if we know they chose directly, by name and last name, the mayor of Belgrade? We have to realize that jurisdiction and authority are the same, but the capacity for implementation and the authorities of the mayor are not equal. The resignations of the president of the assembly, deputy president, were handed over at the session itself, when the session took place, although it should have been done in good time. There was a 20th session, and according to Article 9, it had to be done at the next session and to define the resignation. Article 14 of Article 3 defines that the resignations of the speaker of the assembly are immediately notified to the assembly, and at the first next session of the assembly, without voting, determines that the term of office ended on the day of the resignation, which means it was only the next, 21st session of the Belgrade City Assembly that they could verify those resignations. In addition, other matters of procedure, Article 8(3) and Article 9 have not been respected. The proposal for a candidate for the speaker of the assembly shall be submitted to the chair in writing, allowing representatives of other political parties to do so. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again, since I haven't finished my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8562	The People's MP Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8563	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has been done by the ruling majority in the City Assembly on October 8th, with the illegal appointment of V.D. Mayor of Belgrade, you know very well that this move by DS, DSS and G17 in the City Assembly has violated the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm sorry Minister Milan Markovic isn't responding to our discussion, but I hope he can hear me. They, gentlemen, have set up a V.D. The mayor, and they know very well that, in the event of the mayor's death, after 15 days, they were obliged to discuss the mayor's election. The late Nenad Bogdanovic was elected directly, it should not be forgotten. That they set Zoran Alimpić up for V.D. The mayor's a lawless man. In no case can it be justified. They tried some excuses, they used some excuses, and they replied that the minister interpreted it that way, gentlemen, the minister could interpret it as he wanted. He is not in the position of the local self-government minister to make the flat-rate decisions, as he likes it. He's here to respect and enforce laws exclusively. Minister Milan Markovic, in order to satisfy the party interests of the DS, violates the law because he can. Why would he want to do that? It is possible because it is they who dispute the constitution of the Constitutional Court. They did it with the intention of having these marifettelucas do it. So there's no Constitutional Court above them, there's no one to knock down their decisions, and they're acting against the law. Minister Milan Markovic, I hope you can hear me, there is a Serbian government that can react in this case. Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a member who regulates problems of this nature, a member of the Constitution that can correct this and this kind of lawlessness that you have done in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, Mr Markovic, I hope you are listening to me. This member of the constitution says the government must react within five days, and Milan Markovic is calm because he is protected by Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. They're guilty of law enforcement. He's only under their protection. You tell me what the name of the one who... I'm sorry, I'll continue after the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8564	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like in a few words to state my position and the position of our parliamentary group, the SPS. For what's going on right now and threatening to put it on our heads like we're obstructing the work of the Assembly, I want the public to know that it's just a consequence. I want the public to know that 15 days ago, on 9 October this year, the government and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government were publicly invited to react to illegal behaviour, anti-business behaviour in the Belgrade City Assembly, against the Statutes, and not to list any further. 15 days ago, we asked for an answer and an attitude - right away. We said what happened was a scandal, here's a stenogram, here's a Rules of Procedure, here's the Statute, here's the Law. We're looking for an emergency response. After seven days, the Committee on Local Self-Government was held. That's when the Secretary of State told us that he first heard about it and that he had to get to know it. The Committee on Local Self-Government concluded and asked the Ministry to take all measures, of course, to consider, determine the situation and so on and to take all measures in accordance with Article 111. Law on local self-government. It was Monday, last night. We just heard that the minister asked the City Assembly to respond to what she was doing on October 8th. Now I'm asking-- how long is this gonna take? Who, in fact, cheats on the public? It is deceived by the government, the Ministry, most of it, because they were able to get up immediately the next day, to come out and say -- based on the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the Statute, the gentlemen, you're wrong, that's not true, and that the arguments convince us of that. There would be no more controversy. Of course, there's no argument for that. Then they're going on the line of stallion. This is the result of this now, because there is no courage to stand up; there is no courage for the Government to come out, the Ministry to come out with a clear, precise attitude, and to say - people, yes, what you did is not legal, go ahead, repeat, hold a session again, and I know what needs to be done. It wasn't done either. Finally, please listen to the answer, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. He says the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says -- the municipal assembly decides on the selection of the municipality's executive bodies, and the choice of Belgrade city and city executives is governed by law. Which one? Which should be brought in. When? Nobody knows that. They don't know when they'll be brought in either. On the other hand, the Law on Local Self-Government says very precisely - elections are being discussed within 15 days, unless there are less than six months left by the end of the term of office. The term of office expires in September of the next year, and we are constantly being translated into stories that, behold, according to the Constitutional Law, which, by the way, are not already respected, will be called. When -- they don't know how to say it either. One more sentence, I'll finish it. Listen, please, an explanation of the Constitutional Committee. It says -- bearing in mind the above provisions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and so on, as well as the provision of the Belgrade City Statute, which provides for the implementation of simultaneous elections for the councilors and mayors of Belgrade, and that the election of councilors for the Belgrade City Assembly remains less than six months, conditions have not been met. Is it possible this was written by the Constitutional Committee? Does this mean that it happened that the mandate ended before the term of office in general, that it must wait three years when the term of office expires, in order for the elections to be at the same time? This is the government's behaviour, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, who think that we, I guess, are underage, don't understand. I will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, because, for days, we have warned that the law, the Constitution, and the Rules of Procedure, and we want to participate further in the debate, but the reason for my reporting was to make it clear to the public - this is the result of the arrogant behaviour of the Government, the Ministry, of not giving adequate answers to the asked question. Only when they give it the right way will there be no need for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8566	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Ms. Jovanovic, the opinion we have recently received is a brutal fraud of the MPs and a brutal fraud of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have tried to explain to representatives of the ruling coalition that what they are doing in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade is a violation of the Constitution and of the Law and a throw under the feet of the elementary principles of rule of law. Mr Oliver Dulic, as president of the National Assembly, tried to find some legal argument about what happened at the Belgrade City Assembly. Of course, what he was saying, he didn't write it himself, that's what his DS party colleagues wrote him. What is symptomatic, ladies and gentlemen, is that the opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee does not mention the key provision of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, Mr Oliver Dulic, in his desire to defend his party colleagues in the Belgrade City Assembly, is calling for Article 3(4). Constitutional law. Furthermore, to Article 191 paragraphs 4 and 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 11(2). The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but does not call for a key provision of the Constitutional Law, which the SRS insists on all time, which is the provision of Article 12, which says - laws and other republican regulations remain in force until their compliance with the Constitution, within the time limits provided for by this law, if this law is not set to cease to apply. One thing's as clear as the sun. The law on local self-government applies until a new law is passed. That law applies in general, from the first to the last member. Article 42(5) also applies. A law on local self-government, which provides for the commitment of the president of the National Assembly to call elections for mayor of Belgrade within 15 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the former mayor, and this matter is quite clear. However, the DS, the DSS, in a desire to conceal this provision of the Constitutional Law, are calling for some fully irrelevant norms of the Constitution and the constitutional law, only to hide that National Assembly President Oliver Dulic is obliged to respect the Law on Local Self-Government. It is clear that what Mr. Milan Markovic is saying is merely an attempt to buy time, as if we are a minor, so we do not know that he is and how he is familiar with what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly. Because what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly did DSS and DSS, but they did not, ladies and gentlemen, do so on their own, would not have been a blessing for breaking the constitution and the law did not give Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8568	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The next MP to apply for the Rules of Procedure is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, I must confess that it is appropriate for you to sit where you are, and if, a while ago, from that same place, they have managed to move a Kragujevacan, I hope that the Kragujevacan woman will find it a little harder to move. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I ask the President of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, and the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr Markovic, why the law in this country is not respected and why, in principle, the same laws are widely interpreted. Namely, when it comes to the election of Serbia's president, then DS is in a hurry, or someone told them that only by quick votering Boris Tadic can defeat Mr Tomislav Nikolic. When it comes to Belgrade's mayor, the DS is not in a hurry, but rather stalling and seeking a candidate who could possibly defeat SRS candidate Alexander Vukic. I tell them from here that neither Boris Tadic will ever beat Tomislav Nikolic again, nor will anyone from the DS beat Alexander Vukic. The Serbian president's building and the Belgrade City Assembly building, located across the hall where we are sitting, will be "safe houses" for the citizens of Serbia and for the citizens of Belgrade only when their hosts are Serbian radicals, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic. Those who have robbed and destroyed this country for the past ten years can look for a safe house in Pozarevec, Sremska Mitrovica, Nis and some other cities in Serbia, and if not left Belgrade, they can find a safe house in Padinska Skela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8570	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, called. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, like most of my colleagues from the SRS Parliamentary Group. Today we attend an unusual act in this congregation. In fact, if you look at the parliamentary benches in which the position sits, you will see that there are no MPs. Why are we in this situation today, we should ask ourselves, and Serbian citizens should get a clear answer. From the argument of my colleagues from the SRS, especially those who are MPs in the Belgrade City Assembly, and then those who are lawyers by profession, it is clear to you that this is a harsh violation of the Constitution and the law of the Serbian state. In short, to make no mistake again, we do not have a legal and according to Belgrade City's Rules of Procedure of the elected mayor and the new administration of the city of Belgrade. By law, as we all know, 15 days after Mr. Bogdanovic's death, the president of our assembly, Mr. Oliver Dulic, was scheduled to vote for mayor. There is a clear clause that only if the elections are to be called in six months' time. Now you see the situation we're in. We had to get the opinion of the two committees of the Serbian Parliament on this issue, when we advertised, along with fellow SPS colleagues, that a new administration was illegally elected. There was no normal way to do that. And today we've been transferred here to want extortion and blackmail to come up with some kind of solution that suits us. That's not true, it's already burned. You can no longer endure this irresponsible behavior in a country that is practically in ruins. Why is the state in ruins? There is no need to repeat, we have said this about this speaker, that there is no Constitutional Court, and there is no Supreme Arbitrarian who will judge, after all, whether or not this constitution is being broken. There are no sets of laws that are a condition or precondition for calling locals, including presidential elections. I'll continue, of course, later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8572	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, appeared in the word of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads - the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials and the powers of the authorities at which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. What Mr. Milan Markovic, the state administration minister, did today and, as Mr. Nikolic said, against local self-government, is scandalous. Mr. Milan Markovic left with the DS Parliamentary Group, neglected that nearly a hundred MPs from two parliamentary groups remained in the hall, and according to the DoS Rules of Procedure, only one MP, the minister, as well as the Prime Minister, has to be here and communicate with the only MP in this room. Of course, the MPs of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and G17 plus left this hall, that is their legitimate right. We all remember, in the past session, that Serbia's citizens remember, that, for example, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group did not enter this hall for a few months, only coming to the cash register at pay and per hour. But it's also their legitimate right. I am talking about a minister who must not be so open as to show that he is the minister of only one group of MPs, and therefore a group of citizens. We spoke several times about Boris Tadic, his party president, that he was just the president of the "yellow" company, so-called "yellow". Democratic parties, not to act as president of the Serbian state. His Minister Milan Markovic today confirmed that we were right. It is possible that Milan Markovic is ashamed to hear what we are going to bring out here today, and we will talk, above all, about the scandalous session of the Belgrade City Assembly since 8 October and, of course, about the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we received today at 16.20 p.m., on the insistence of the MPs. The board was held at 10:00, and I think about 11:30 was over. At the morning session, I said that Mr Oliver Dulic, President of Parliament, had been voluntarily running for Zabela or for any other institution, in any case, for several years in prison. And when we got this opinion he signed, it just confirmed what I said in the morning. This is also scandalous. The opinion of the President of Parliament as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is disastrous. The MPs who participated in the Constitutional Committee's work on the details of that session spoke. Here, I haven't been able to finish, but, in some other announcement, I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8574	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by the MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party insist on is respecting Article 111. Law on local self-government and Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines supervision of the work of the municipality, so it is said that the government is required to suspend the exercise of a general act of the municipality that it considers not to agree with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure to assess its constitutionality or legality within five days. Under the terms of a certain Law, the government may disband the congregation of the municipalities. The problem is that the representatives, first of all, the local self-government departments are not principled. They create a problem because of the inconsistencies and selective application of the Law and because they prevent effective exercise of rights to local self-government, thus bringing many local self-governments into a position to react because we do not have adequate and equal access to all local self-governments, regardless of who exercises local authority. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Ministry and Mr Markovic, affects the negative situation and, most importantly, legal uncertainty among all local authorities. That is why we define that there is legal violence, that there is a violation of all the laws, because that is precisely the weakness of the parliamentary majority. That is why they are treating Belgrade not only unprincipledly, but according to 10 municipalities throughout Serbia, they have temporary organs. When representatives of the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia formed local government in the largest municipality in Serbia, in Leskovac, the president of the Assembly, from G17 Plus, Predrag Markovic, four months earlier he called local elections, both for the council, and for the president of the municipality. So they didn't respect the four-year term. They wanted to, they insisted on it and called the elections, and representatives of the Serbian Radical Party drew a line. But here, now that the relationship has changed, when the provisional organ has ruled a longer period of time, it's obviously not a strong relationship for them. If I present to you now the papers that are in front of me, you will see that, let's say, the President of the Municipality of Vladan Marinkovic, first of all, defines that he has a large number of workers and that they have to lose their jobs. After that, he asked local self-government workers to submit a list of workers who wanted to apply for the programme by September 2007. Then we have Mr. Markovic's presence, the sitting minister, who came to visit... Since I haven't finished, I'd like to ask you to sign me up again for my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8576	National MP Momir Markovic has applied according to the Rules of Procedure. After Mr. Markovic, the word has been given by MP General Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8577	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me first clear a dilemma. The one called by MPs is not me, I am Momir Markovic and I am a folk MP from the Serbian Radical Party's Parliament Club, and Markovic, who is called for violating the Constitution, for violating all possible laws related to local self-government, is named Milan Markovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, recently the minister of justice said in public "disinformation" under the auspices of the Democratic Party that five prisons have begun to be built in Serbia. The Minister of Education didn't say they started building any schools. Normally, ladies and gentlemen, they're right, they're not going to school anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, the flagrant violation of the law and the biggest robbery that could have been recorded in the last year has just been recorded in the City Assembly these days, by not calling the mayor of Belgrade's election. Because the question is who is the bigger thief, the one who steals several hundred million dollars, or the euro, like their Janjusevic, Kolesar and everyone else, or the one who steals the will of the citizens? Is the one who took the commission to sell Cementar Popovac a bigger thief than the one who does not allow Serbian citizens, that is, deny them the right to plead and choose the mayor at their own free will? There is no greater crime, no greater robbery than the robbery of the will of the citizens. I expected Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, as someone who was famous for reasonable, would at least represent him within 15 days, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, to hold elections for Belgrade Mayor. I expected that in this competition we would show who is better, what better conditions Belgrade's citizens will offer, who better to lead Belgrade and who will lead more domestically, I say, have the Belgrade city budget and remind Belgrade's citizens that it is about 850m euros. Of course, both my expectations and expectations of the citizens of Belgrade are infuriated. Thank you. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8578	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8579	Article 226. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have been in this assembly for months now all witnesses to how the Constitution, constitutional law, and that constitutionality or legality can be as much as necessary for the ruling coalition, or as much as it takes for our government and president. I guess the basic principle is that the Constitution has or does not, that the law has or does not. This event from the City Hall of the 8th of this month has been on the subject of the Assembly for days. Almost no event occupied the three Assembly committees, first, the Committee on Local Self-Government, then, the Legislative Committee, and today, here, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Although I am not a member of the Legislative Committee, since I was interested in this issue, I was present when the debate was being held, the day before that 15th day, when the president of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, was due to call those elections. This time was warned and all arguments were made, starting with the arguments stemming from the local self-government law itself, which clearly states that within 15 days, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to call the elections. Mr Dulic himself, and representatives of the ruling coalition's Legislative Committee, have called on the Constitutional Law, although he has been violated several times in recent months, particularly the 4th position, where it says that elections for committees in local self-government units will be announced by the president of the National Assembly by December 31st. He kept mentioning that date - December 31st. However, the position implies something else, or at the latest within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last of the laws to be governed, firstly, by the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, then local self-government, local elections and the position of the capital. There is no guarantee that these laws will be passed, not until December 31st, but simply today there is no one in Serbia can guarantee when these laws will be passed. It is clear that there cannot be a legal vacuum, and it does not exist in Serbia, there is a Law on Local Self-Government, there is a member who obliges the president of the Serbian Parliament to call those elections within 15 days and there is a Article 12... I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8580	Thank you, Mr. Delic. The People's MP Mr Miletic Mihajlovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8581	Dear Miss Jovanovic, [[Intruder from the scene: They take the Minister's papers, leave it, don't bring up the Minister's stuff, take away, what is this...]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8582	I'm sorry, just a moment, please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8583	Dear Miss Jovanovic, honourable MPs, this issue, concerning the city of Belgrade, is very current and significant. The Constitution, and the Law, and the Statute, have been violated, and there is nothing in dispute. It is important to insist on following certain rules, by law, that all have equal rights in a particular procedure. It is obvious that the procedure has been violated and that there are only exclusive rights to select certain functions in city authorities. But I would remind, above all, the public that we have an irregular situation, when it comes to the functioning of local self-government, in ten municipalities across Serbia, and that this is an irregular state, outside the law and outside the Constitution, accepted as normal, as if we were not living in the 21st century, where there is a rule of law, but as if living in the 19th century, when the position of government measured what is right and what is not. That's what the Prince Milos did. It seems that sometimes he too, by his own judgment at a given time, measured justice and injustice, rather than what it seems today. So, the municipality of Užica, since 16 November 2006, has been introduced temporarily larger. Smederevo, since 16 November 2006, Zrenjanin, 16 November 2006, Babušnica, 1 December 2006, Valjevo, 28 December 2006, Leskovac, 12 April 2007 [[Intruder from the SRS: Don't let them bring up the Minister's matters, call security, how do you have the right to present his things?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8584	I'd like to ask the congregation service to respond. I'll allow you to proceed. I'm sorry for this interruption. The disturbance occurred the moment the MP entered the O.R. and focused his attention. Here you go, Mr. Miletic. I saw who took Mr. Secretary's phone, so if the minister asks or reports that his cell phone that he left in the O.R. is missing, I'd be happy to tell him who took it from his bench. [[An intruder from Dragan Todorovic's place: Please, for the record, there was a minister's phone here, if it disappears, you should have taken this man's name]] Thank you. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8585	The municipality of Leskovac, on 12 April 2007, was introduced on the occasion of the Temporary Bigger, Bogatic, 19 April of this year, Kula, 21 April of this year, Velika Gradište, 24 May of this year, and Smederevska Palanka - 14 June 2007. Under the Law on Local Self-Government, a temporary council has three months' mandate, unless there are six months left, such a situation can be extended. We don't have an exact date when the local elections will be scheduled, and according to what I read, all the dates are such that the time of three months has expired everywhere, in all ten municipalities. So in these municipalities, temporary councils rule illegally, outside the Law and the Constitution, and that is declared a normal situation. On behalf of the SPS, I appeal to the current authority which is competent to respect the Law and the Constitution, to respect what is called local self-government. It is not possible for the state administration, or the government, to set itself up with its authority and its powers in such a way that it can end the Law and the Constitution at its own free will without being accountable to anyone. It's about disrespect and disrespect for what's called local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8586	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The People's MP, Dr Vladan Batic, reported on the words of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8587	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. I ask for an explanation from the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija - why is tomorrow's session, scheduled for tomorrow at 12 o'clock in Gracanica, which is scheduled by day and by night and week? In the morning, I said that I insisted a few days ago that journalists who were accredited to follow the work of the National Assembly, because we do not need any secret dinner, but to be clearly seen and heard, where there is a cradle of Serbia, in Kosovo and Metohija, for what anyone stands for and what anyone wants to say. No journalists were invited, I said that before noon. Then, an official serving the work of the committee, not the chairman of the Committee, reported that the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija had been prevented from having urgent obligations and that the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija had been cancelled. What are the urgent obligations of the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija? I guess Kosovo and Metohija are his only obligations. I suppose that perhaps these urgent commitments are the admission of new advisers to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. At what pace the minister receives them, he will soon have more advisers than the Serbs will remain in Kosovo. That's irresponsible. Now that I've taken my word for it, let me say one more thing. As you can see, I'm the only MP on this side who's gone into the O.R., and I wanted to say it in public, because of the blasphemy of principle, because of the piety of consistency, because of the blasphemy of principle. Some people here are disturbed that the National Assembly is chaired by an SRS MP. The DHSS and I, personally, already known, are opposed to the Serbian Radical Foreigner, political insolents, if you will, opponents, but it is perfectly normal in every country's political life where there are different political options. But when one part of these people, principled and principled, along with your legalists, vote by the head of the SRS Parliament club, Tomislav Nikolic for Parliament's president, they don't mind the SRS. When they activate together, which is legitimate again, to bring the Constitution, then they don't mind the SRS. When they share power with the SRS in certain municipalities, we all know that, then they don't mind the SRS. When it is voted in favour of the resolution on the abolition of the sanctions against Cuba, etc., they do not mind the SRS. So it's not principledness, it's not consistency, it's not consistency, it's not principle, it's demagogy and hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8588	Thank you, Mr. Batic. During the follow-up of the afternoon session, the chair-in-Office received a notice from the service, though not signed, saying that the 5th session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, scheduled for 24 October 2007, in Gracanica, AP Kosovo and Metohija, was delayed due to the sudden prevention of ministers for Kosovo and Metohija from attending the session. You will be notified of the subsequent session. I understand that you, under Article 226, requested an answer from the president of the Committee. This wasn't signed by the president of the board, the service delivered, so this question of yours through a stenogram will be addressed to the right address. Thank you. The People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic reported on his words under the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8589	Ladies and gentlemen, please. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to be provided with an answer to a question that concerns not only the MPs, but probably most citizens of Serbia, thus also Belgrade. According to Article 3(4) of the Constitution, i.e. the Law implementing the Constitution. - elections for committees in local self-government units will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last of the laws governing the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, local elections, the position of the capital. As you noticed, not a single word, not a single sentence, speaks of the position and changes in the way mayor Belgrade is elected. The mayor of Belgrade is elected, according to this, in the same way that he was elected under the previous law in 2004, and the constitutional obligation of the National Assembly president was to call elections for mayor of Belgrade within 15 days of the death of Mr Bogdanovic, i.e. to cease his post. Since that didn't happen, they're completely unnecessary and pointless explanations that we're getting. It explains - given the above provisions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, which are not about Belgrade mayor anywhere, talk about local self-government, but we are talking about elections for the Belgrade Assembly, but about elections for the mayor -- which set deadlines for holding the election of councilors and mayors, or mayors, which is not true -- as well as the provision of the statute of the Belgrade city, which provides for the implementation of simultaneous elections for the councilors and mayors of Belgrade, etc. What does that have to do with anything? Does this mean that if any mayor is ever prevented from performing his duties, Belgrade should wait for the Belgrade City Assembly to expire its entire term? If that is, say, in the third month of his function, he should wait almost four more years. Belgrade is still waiting to win the next mayor, as the next elections should be simultaneous. What are they doing that for? Because they are aware that all of these are the most damaged citizens of Belgrade. The citizens of Belgrade have been damaged because they have no urban transport, because they do not have Adu Ciganli in the Jagodina because the park was created by an aqua-park, which is not made in Belgrade, were damaged because of the Sartid affair, because of the "Aerodrom" affair, because of Janjusevic, Kolesara, the "energy Mafia", the "New Popovac" affair, because of Bodrum and Thessaloniki, because of the "Rocket" affair because of all the villas in Dedinj, are damaged because there is no Constitutional Court in this country, so you have no one to complain. They're damaged because their children don't have a future and can't see it. They are damaged because those who are in power today have 11m euros each day, and Belgrade's citizens do not even have a grant, that at a price of 100 euros per month, which rarely anyone can pay, they send those children to kindergartens, because there is no place. We have to change that, we have to fight for the better life of all Serbian citizens and we have to fight for the power of honest, honorable and honest people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8590	Thank you, colleague Stefanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8591	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Miss Jovanovic, the SRS today performs no obstruction in the Serbian Parliament, but is fighting for the elemental rights of local self-government, above all, the city of Belgrade. Today, when the Serbian government turned its back on the Law on Local Self-Government and Rights of the City of Belgrade, when the Ministry of Local Self-Government did so, when MPs of the ruling coalition did so, the only political force in Serbia fighting for the rights of local self-government is the Serbian Radical Party. It is clear why the Minister for Local Self-Government avoids applying the measures laid down in Article 111. Law on local self-government. He is trying to buy time, i.e. that the MPs of the SRS and the entire Serbian public are deluding, in this direction that the Ministry of Local Self-Government, as to God, is doing something, gathering information, so when it collects enough information, then, says Minister Markovic, the minister will come out with his opinion. Milan Markovic, of course, minister for, or against local self-government. It is clear that what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly could not have happened if they had not received a blessing from Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. Minister Milan Markovic was absolutely aware of what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly, and he had to take the measures that the law imposed upon him immediately after that session of October 8th. Of course, Minister Milan Markovic is now making a ignorance, so, as -- there's not enough information, let's get a report from the Belgrade City Assembly, so once we get a report, then we'll come out with our own opinion. However, Minister Milan Markovic is trying to disabling the MPs. All those who attended the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which was held a few days ago, know that the Committee on Local Self-Government has committed Minister Milan Markovic, not to come out with his opinion, but to annul acts that were unlawfully brought to the Belgrade City Assembly. The minister has nothing to do with his opinion, but must annul acts concerning the illegal election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, deputy president of the Belgrade City Assembly and some phantom deputy official of Belgrade's mayorship. These are some structures that neither the Constitution nor the Law on Local Self-Government. What the DS is doing, especially Milan Markovic, who did not have the courage to stay until the end of the Serbian Parliament... I thank and report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8592	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Sulejman Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Dr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. Since May 15th, until now, the Serbian government has failed to respect the constitution, on several occasions. One of the cases of disrespect for the Constitution is that the president of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, does not want to call elections for Belgrade's mayor. It's a violation of the Constitution for me, and whoever breaks the Constitution, of course, has to answer. In this case, the president of the Assembly, Mr. Dulic, will answer. I was, like General Delic, on the Legislative Committee, where members of the SRS in that committee all the time indicated that the Law on Local Elections was being violated, too, and the Constitution of Serbia. What I don't understand is that members of the Committee in the ranks have been trying all along to justify President Dulic's decision not to call the election for mayor of Belgrade. Of course they didn't have a legal basis for that. In all ways, they tried to obstruct the Legislative Committee. I am not in the waters of rights, but by reading the Law on Local Elections, and ordinary layman can clearly see that Parliament Speaker Dulic must call the mayor's election after Mr Nenad Bogdanovic's death. That's what you see in Article 60. Law on local elections. Since we don't have a Constitutional Court, and over and over we said we didn't have it, we probably won't even get an answer if it's all by law and constitution. What I would especially like to point out, and for the sake of the public of Serbia, is -- if Mr Tomislav Nikolic had stayed here, this would not have happened. Normally, he would call the election by law and constitution. For the first time in this congregation, there is positive energy and work. This has been proven and you can see it now, Serbian viewers, and it is seen how the Assembly should be run, when led by my distinguished colleague, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8594	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8595	Honored Presidency, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Since I receive citizens every Saturday in my MP's office, I am obliged to mention on behalf of them some things and to ask for an explanation and notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not citing individual examples, because these individual examples point to whole categories of citizens, to significant sections of the population that affect these problems. One of these notifications and explanations is - will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do anything about more than 130 of our citizens who did not exercise their right to pension in Croatia between 1991 and 1999? I've been approached by more citizens with the same request, with the same question, with a cry for something to be done on the agenda. Secondly, the same set of questions or similar, about our citizens who lived in Slovenia at the time of the break-up of the SFRY and had tenants' rights, were forced to leave their apartments and lost that tenancy right, and spent years investing in housing funds. It's about 6,000 people and their families. I met some of them. The families of military faces, 13 or 14, live in an abandoned barracks in Obrenovac, beneath the elementary human dignity, on the edge of misery, as if they were Kurds, as if cursed and rejected from all over the world. I've already asked the question of Slovenian pensions for 3,500 people. Over a million and a half euros are lost every month because no one is doing anything to make it happen. Does this government care about the pension fund of Slovenia or its citizens? Speaking of Slovenia, basic, basic life-saving foods in Serbia, which they promised to feed half of Europe, you remember the billboard of the folk coalition -- Serbia born and fertile, happy and satisfied, they are more expensive than in Slovenia. These are official indicators, and here, my colleague tells me, even some in Switzerland, unfortunately. Is that what we were trying to do? Last night we saw one contribution that our milk is cheaper in Montenegro by 30% than in Serbia. After someone says there's no monopoly. Some ministers obviously care about something else here, that because of the transge-franga combination, Martin Schlaf, via the Vienna Stock Exchange, proposes to be the best minister under the sky, and we're all naive, living on another hemisphere, so we don't know what the reach and values of that minister are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8596	Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8597	I wanted to remind this opportunity that the Belgrade City Assembly, unfortunately, is not the only place where the law is broken, and the Constitution, and all other possible acts. A short while ago, my colleague from the SPS Parliamentary Group mentioned 10 local self-governments, where the law is also being violated, where temporary councils are now in power, in illegal composition and in an illegal manner now rule. The composition in the provisional councils does not correspond to the current composition in local self-government, i.e. the current political group relationship in local self-government, but corresponds exclusively to the political relationship, the attitude of political parties in the country. We know how they share power in the country, that's their formula 3-2-1. They're not local self-government's only areas in state and social life where laws, the Constitution and everything else are broken. In all spheres of life, there is a violation of the law and the Constitution. How many times have we mentioned pensioners and all those who are in a state of social affairs? We talked to the departments in charge and resolution, we told all the competent people that pensions are not paid legally, that the average pension does not follow the average salary with 60%. No one responded to that. The government reacted, saying in a newspaper that after the New Year, it would bring pensions into line. What about those pensions by New Year's? Will that alignment be retroactively paid? Not just that. The fact is that there is still no Constitutional Court in this country, although we are in the Second Regular Session, although we know that the Constitutional Court must have been formed in the course of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. I'm not just saying that as a phrase, but because for all these laws, the whole set of laws that we are now discussing and discussed since June, for the previous amendment of these laws, is one of the mechanisms of their functioning - the Constitutional Court. The fact is that someone is responsible for not having a Constitutional Court, or that political consensus cannot be reached. In the end, after so many long negotiations, and when the Constitutional Court is established, the Serbian citizens will rightly consider whether he will work legally and properly, after so much time of political bickering and negotiation. I'm taking the opportunity to remind the public that neither the Administrative Court nor the Court of Appeal nor the Court of Cassation exists. I want to take the moment to remind again that at this point another union is strikein the streets not only of Belgrade, but of the streets of Serbia. A growing number of dissatisfied, those who address the SPS in their dissatisfaction. I just want to say one thing: the ruling parties in the country are exclusively looking at their most important party interests, and only according to that they act and work, doing those jobs that suit them. Anything else, all those interests that are state-owned, concerning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do not come true because they are not currently in the narrow party interests of the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8598	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Mr. Sreto Peric, appeared, and may he also prepare, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8599	Dear Miss Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbian citizens go to the polls, mostly to show confidence to those they choose, and they enforce the law and create an ambience for them to be better. However, it has nothing to do with it. What someone said, we now have what we're discussing, and that's the consequence, that's something else. Namely, this is about two things. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 225 and 226, I would like to inform the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, and the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, when they will discuss elections to elect Belgrade's mayor. Already on 9 October, SRS MPs, attending the Belgrade City Assembly, asked questions, or indicated that certain irregularities were carried out at the city assembly in connection with Article 12. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must quote him: "Laws and other republican regulations remain in force until they comply with the Constitution, within the deadlines provided for by this law, if this law is not set to cease to apply." The law on local elections did not cease to apply and it applies in its integrated text, therefore, until the law changes. On the Legislative Committee, held on 18 October this year, MPs, members of the SRS Legislative Committee, asked Mr Oliver Dulic, National Assembly President, a decadent and clear question - whether he would call elections to elect the mayor of Belgrade, because it was high time and in accordance with Article 60. The law on local elections, where the president of the assembly is said to call the elections within 15 days of the date of the term of office of the president, or mayor, if there is no less than six months left until the term of office of the president of the municipality. National Assembly President Oliver Dulic said he would call the general local elections by 31 December 2007, but provided the ruling coalition does not agree otherwise and does not delay calling those elections. He called for celery, so, according to him, at this point, the vote for mayor is not complete, and unless he announces local elections by 31 December 2007, he will also call for the mayor of Belgrade. Then maybe it would be illogical. However, in these legal actions, in Serbia's legal order, on this issue, we cannot call for any celery. This is a "gift beyond measure." That's why the MPs of the SRS are eager to explain to the citizens what this is about... Since I didn't say what my intention was, I'm applying for the word again, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8600	Mr Dragoljub Anastasovski has the word and Mr Marko Milenkovic should also be prepared according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. By failing to call the election by President Oliver Dulic, both the Constitution and all laws have been violated. Obviously, our capital has led to chaos, because they have simply usurped power in Belgrade in the past. They wouldn't agree to let go of power like that. It's huge money, it's huge privileges, and it's all reflected not only on the city, it's down to the level of municipalities, so it's chaos in the municipalities, especially in those municipalities where they're in power in the DS, DSS and G17 plus coalitions, and in most municipalities they're in the coalition. They do all sorts of things just to please themselves and individual members, or tycoons, who are rich at their expense. As far as the current minister is concerned, he's not in the O.R. right now, because he's solidarity with a group of MPs who left the O.R., and it seems to me that this is the first time that MPs leave the ruling coalition. Maybe that's how they should work in the future, not come back, because it's obvious that the MPs who are currently in the assembly benches are doing much better, they work much better, so we don't really need them over. For this gesture that the current minister has done, I would simply invite him to resign because he cannot be classified on either side. He is a minister in the Serbian government, not a minister in the DS government. Obviously, oath means nothing. A man can take any oath if he won't honor it. An honest man respects his word and his cheek and acts that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8602	The word has been made by MP Marko Milenkovic, and after him, according to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Tomislav Ljubenović, Milorad Buha and Milovanovic signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm reporting for an article. Rules of Procedures 225 and 226 and ask for a notice from the President of Parliament and the Minister for State Administration against local self-government - when will the elections for mayor of Belgrade be called? We heard from the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic that he will respect the constitutional law, and elections will be called for the President of the Republic. He was not quite clear when the local elections would be called, and he forgot about the mayoral elections for Belgrade. Is that what he became uninformed? This way, we Serbian radicals inform him that the problem here in Belgrade, but the problem in all of Serbia, because the people are increasingly more difficult to live, a series of products of broad consumption, milk, meat, food in general, is more expensive than in the EU countries, more expensive than in Germany or Switzerland, and the international government continues to work against all constitutional and legal norms. Within 15 days, the president of the assembly had to call elections for mayor of Belgrade. In this way, he would stop the illegal decisions of the City Assembly, as it cannot be an interesting agreement between the three parties, the DS, the DSS and the G's'six percent' plus to be stronger than the citizens' interests, stronger than the respect of all the laws in Serbia. This exit from the hall of their deputies only confirms the throw of the rule of law principle, the promotion of democratic norms of civilised societies, and the chairmanship of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's Assembly, when it is most difficult, only announcing the taking over of responsibility for Serbian radicals, announces the victory of Aleksandar Vukic as mayor of Belgrade and Tomislav Nikolic for the president of Serbia, but also what is only important to Serbian radicals – a better life for all citizens in Serbia. I'll remind you what happened only a few months ago. They praised members of the ruling coalition, allegedly, with their quality personnel from the top of the dossal bed, called on the line, and now that they saw that none of their own were even kneed by Alexander Vukic, they all ran away and for the first time since 5 October 2000 they did the right thing, they did the only right thing, they left the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8604	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, will not be long before this side is filled with Serbian radicals, as it will be the wish of Serbian citizens. The SRS has an obligation to give critical consideration to everything that happened in the previous period, what is happening today and to represent the interests of citizens, to their satisfaction. My question to the democratic bloc is - do you, gentlemen, want to continue to break the laws, lie to this people, while Serbian radicals praise you, machete you, or say - bravo? Unlike you, we are responsible to more than a million voters, as well as to the entire people, who are seeking salvation in us, after you have shown months of incompetence to take care of the people, but also a high degree of grampility when it comes to satisfying your personal interests. I will remind you that temporary measures have been introduced in Leskovac and that the interim body has so far changed the composition several times, but that no political option has shown any awareness of it, but everyone has been hasty to take power, so we have a bunch of political directors, chiefs and members of the municipal council, who in just a month of their mandate have additionally burdened the woodwork, anyway, the poor budget. This unfeeling race and the struggle for supremacy among them goes to the expense and damage of the people of Leskovac municipality. That's why they've been doing it in secret, without public transmissions, without an MP's call, in their own way. There's another very important thing I want to point out. Practice confirmed this, too. Namely, when you say "emergency," it immediately connects us to the DSS, and when you say "temporary measures" in 2002, then in 2007, it joins us back to DOS and, even these days, to temporary measures on the DS Municipal Committee. It's all temporary, and it lasts in Leskovac. It is clear that called Democrats know that they rule only in the absolute regime, without democracy -- dictatorship, without transparency and without being able to be criticised on behalf of citizens. Is that democracy? That certainly isn't. This is a dictatorship of democracy. Should the citizens of Leskovec be reminded of the promise that responsible functions will be chosen best, to compete? We're wondering, what was the contest? Well, because there's no such competition that many of their staff would go through, they pulled them out of the well, from other parties, like flyers. Can local self-government in such a way function in the interest of citizens? I'm sure he can't. That's why the interests of the citizens are to make the elections matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8606	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8607	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am obliged to warn, both this respectable home and the citizens of Serbia, of the lawlessness, anti-constitutional action and terror conducted by the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Miroslav Lajcak. What's this about? In fact, a few days ago, the High Representative made a decision amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, introducing only two peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which violated the constitutional principle of equality between all three peoples. What's this going to do in practice? It will produce that two nations will vote over one nation, so that we will return to 1991, which has marked and brought war on, because the Serbian people are being reputed at that time, which will happen now. I ask the public of Serbia, I ask the president of the state, and the Prime Minister, what was done to prevent this lawlessness, against constitutional action? Neither of them did anything. Our media is very small, or they almost don't write about this. I remind you that a similar situation was in Croatia in 1990, when the Croatian Parliament, by a decision of one people, changed the constitution, kicked the Serbs out of the constitution and put them in a position to become citizens of the second order. There's been an open terror, an out-of-work, murder, etc. A similar situation will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless we all take measures together to save the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbia's Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj of Bosnia and Herzegovina urged the assembly, declaration or resolution, to condemn all activities of Lajcak and all those working against the interests of the Serb people. I will also warn and point to the evil fate of the Krajina people, who, as such, have been brought into the position that the war crimes of genocide and ethnic cleansing have expelled from the Republic of Croatia, from Republika Srpska, when more than 800,000 Serbs were expelled. They've been stripped of all their property, all their property and social rights taken away. A similar fate will happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if this home, the Republika Srpska Assembly does not take a serious stance, because Tadic and Kostunica cannot expect it, they will not. They didn't even come forward after these decisions. The assembly must clearly state what is the vital interest of the Serbian people in Republika Srpska, condemning everything that is going on there and helping that people, who are beheaded, who is left to the mercy and mercy of the white-world bandits, who have also conducted in the past, and today are still implementing an open policy of breaking up the Serbian national entity and the Serbian national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8608	Thank you, Mr. Buha. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milovan Radovanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226, and for the sake of the public, the provisions of these Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly provide that the MP has the right to request specific explanations and information from the president of the National Assembly. But there's something else that I'm seriously worried about, which is the state of society. The state of the state, the crisis in all spheres of society, where there is a high degree of crime, an affair in all areas of society, not to mention numerous affairs, 'financial', 'energy', 'energetic', 'enlightenment', 'drumic mafia', as well as what is worrying, especially for us, SRS MPs, which is that a large number of members of the government, from previous compositions, since 2000, and beyond, and from the present composition, have severely constrained these affairs. Not to mention the cement mob, the sugar mob, the Sartid, the National Savings Bank, where a fat man who, on a proposal by Martin Schlaff, was declared the best finance minister in 2006, which is not true. If they had declared someone who stole the most in one country, it would have certainly been Mladjan Dinkic, whom they declared the best finance minister. At the same time, Serbia's living standards are growing. We hear in public these days that the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, has different opinions on the same things. If he is a legalist and advocates to act in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the election calling for the president of Serbia, because he says the provisions of the Law require him to do so, what about the provisions of the Law on Local Elections, which require him to call elections for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly within 15 days, or for the mayor of Belgrade. Same thing, by law, and two different arches. That is why Serbian citizens need to measure who is legal and what they stand for. What particularly bothers me, as a citizen and an MP of the SRS, is the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from today. They say the president of the National Assembly is not obliged to call the election because it remains less than six months and the law is not passed. How does one and the Constitutional Affairs Committee know that there are less than six months left, when elections will be called and what date will they be invited to hold?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-23-0.u8610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right now there are 18 other MPs who have signed up to speak for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Given that it is 18 hours, I remind you that today's work has begun with discussion in detail on amendments and additions to the Government Act, and we will continue tomorrow, at 10 o'clock, on the notice of the MPs. As for the debate in detail on amendments and additions to the Government Act, the debate was halted in an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 4. Thank you. Continuation is tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
