ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12557	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since the Committee on Defence and Security and some other activities are under way in the Assembly, I am setting a break by 11.00 hours. We'll continue our work, please, at exactly 11:00 p.m. sharp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12558	Since the Defence and Security Committee is still going on, let's wait for the MPs and take a 15-minute break. So we start at 11:30. Thank you. [[After break – 11.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin work. Before we proceed to the vote, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12560	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you know, the negotiating troika, especially two of those representing the United States and the EU, continue to put pressure on Serbia, but also on all other members of the international community, all states and all organisations, to take away some of our territory, to take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. Unfortunately, we wish we could rely on many other countries and many other organizations. Serbia today has the support of, above all, the Russian Federation. I went out for this pay phone because I think it is more important for the stability and future of Serbia and for the future of our children and I would ask you all in the National Assembly to see what form to find, Mr. Dulic, to congratulate President Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin in yesterday's election victory and to ask them to respect international public law, as they have done so far, and to ask them to help Serbia as they have done so far. I just want to point out a few important things to you. I hear some chatter on the left, I don't know why, because I'm sure all the honorable and normal people in Serbia are looking forward to winning. Not because they love this person or that person, but because they see an incomparably better future and the right to the future and the Serbian people and the right to preserve or fight for freedom of the future of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the entry into parliament and all other parties – the Communist Party, the Liberal Democratic Party and the party of Mr Mironov. As you can see, for those who supported anti-Russian politics, seats in the Russian parliament are gone because the Russian people did not give them the place. Neither Jabloko nor German, nor everyone else got more than 2%, and as many as there are in Serbian media, someone would say they have 82% support. It doesn't matter. By analogy, speaking of which, I ask you to consider this, Mr. President, and to make this clear by voting, and I think it would be with enthusiasm for the Serbian Parliament, such a kind of congratulation to President Putin. So, I have to remind you that Russia went to the best and the whole Russian people went well when they got rid of one Boris. It is also time for us for Boris to become a political past, and then for Serbian Putin Tomislav Nikolic to win the presidential election, and for Serbia to go as well as Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12561	At first we'll determine the quorum, now I've been informed that this morning it's only a quorum for work. I ask the MPs to insert their parliamentary cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum in voter's day. I find that we have a quorum for full decision-making. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the President of the Republic, in principle. For 136, against two, it was not 9 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Milorad Belic, by letter of 21 November 2007, withdrew the amendments to Articles 14 and 18 and the amendment to which he proposed the addition of a new member of 28a, and MP Zvonimir Stević, by letter of 26 November 2007, withdrew the amendment to Article 15 and that an integral part of the Bill had become the amendment of the People's MPs: Nebojsa Rangelovic to Article 10, Željko Vasiljevic for the change of the title of Chapter 9 and to Article 41, Milovan Radovanovic to Article 39 and Stefan Zankov to Article 42. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 131, 20 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 129, it was not 13 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Prokic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 129, he did not vote 81 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 129, 17 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, Srdjan Shain submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment with the correction be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 130, he did not vote 81 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, it did not vote 16 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 129, 15 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 128, 17 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 130, there was no vote of 16 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 129, there were no 82 votes, of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 129, 78 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 128, he did not vote 21 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 126, there was no vote of 14, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 128, it did not vote 15 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, 15 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milena Stankovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, versus 127, it was not 77, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 14th of the amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 129, 16 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 128, it did not vote 18 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 130, it did not vote 16 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment with the correction be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 128, 15 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment with a correction. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 129, 17 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 130, 15 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 128, 12 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 130, it did not vote 14 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 129, 77 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 128, it did not vote 16 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment, with corrections. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 130, 15 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 130, 9 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 128, it did not vote 13, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 129, there was no vote of 10, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. For 73, against 130, it did not vote 11 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment, with a correction. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, it was not 16 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zvonimir Stevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 129, 17 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, it did not vote 23 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, it did not vote 23 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 123, 19 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 128, it did not vote 79, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 131, he did not vote 41, out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 33a be added after article 33a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 128, 15 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 34 be added after article 34. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 199, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 215 MPs. I remind you that the amendment of MP Rajko Baralic, who has accepted the National Assembly, provides for a return fact. The National Assembly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal contained in the amendment of MP Rajko Baralic for the feedback of the provision of Article 34 for which there is a general interest. For 203 against two, it did not vote 10 out of 215 MPs. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 34a of the Bill of Law. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new subtitle and a new member of 38a be added after article 38. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, it did not vote 14 out of the 215 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milosav Milickovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 130, 12 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, no 14 votes against 129, of the 216 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milutin Mrkonjic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 207, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, of the 215 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I remind you that the amendment of MP Milutin Mrkonjic, who has accepted the National Assembly, provides for a return fact. The National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal contained in the amendment of MP Milutin Mrkonjic for the feedback of the provisions of Article 45 for which there is a general interest. For 203, against one, there was no vote of 10, of 214 MPs. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 45a of the Law proposal. A member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 130, 10 of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 129, 12 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the President of the Republic, in general. For 148, against four, he did not vote one out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the President of the Republic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Election of the President of the Republic Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the election of the President of the Republic, in principle. For 136, against three, 12 out of 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs of the people, Natasha Jovanovic, to the title of the Bill's proposal, Nebojsa Rangelovic to Article 4, Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 5, Bojan Milovanovic to Article 8, Sreto Perić to Article 9, Aleksandra Jerkov and Aleksandra Marton to Article 19 with correction, Igor Bečić to Article 21 and Milisav Petronijevic to Article 23. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 128, 15 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, 12 of the 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title and new article 1a be added after article 1. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 129, 12 of the 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 199, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 129, it was not 13 out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 129, 14 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 130, 9 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 126, it did not vote 73 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 126, 15 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 127, there was no vote of 16 out of 207 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 128, it did not vote 16 out of 207 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 127, 15 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 15a be added after article 15. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 129, 14 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 129, 16 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 129, 15 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 128, 18 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Micic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be changed after article 18. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, v. 127, the three abstentions, did not vote 70, out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 130, 15 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 61, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 129, 67 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, versus 127, 70 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 128, 17 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 21st Amendment, with a correction, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, with correction, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment, with correction, be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 125, it did not vote 75 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, 77 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Miljanic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, v. 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 75, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 128, it did not vote 75 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10 against 128, 77 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the election of the President of the Republic, in general. For 137, against 7, 19 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the election of the President of the Republic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. (The session ends at 12.40 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12562	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note 5th session of the Second Regular Session on 3 December 2007 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.40 hours. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We begin the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was called for today, December 3rd 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 210 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the People's Messengers that I have not received notice of the absence of the Members of the People's Parliament. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes. You were presented the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 November 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes of the Third Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to the minutes of this session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 November 2007. For 138, it did not vote 16 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. The sitting session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. I remind you that the Government, by letter No 011-3978/07 of 30 November 2007, is in agreement with Article 143(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrawn from the procedure of the following draft laws and other acts: 1. Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act and 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Also, prior to the establishment of the sitting agenda, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to extend the agenda and bring the debate together. 1. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested that, on the basis of Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda, extends the new point - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the necessity of respect for the constitutional rights of the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and condemnations of acts and measures aimed at limiting and abolishing the national legal prerogatives of Republika Srpska, which was submitted by 81 MPs of the SRS National Assembly on 31 October 2007. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 69, against 129, 15 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, suggested that, on the basis of Article 90(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda, extends the new point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the abuses of Delta from Belgrade, which submitted 11 MPs to the LDP National Assembly on 7 November 2007, and to comply with Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider this point as the 9th item of the agenda of this session. Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 24, against 117, he did not vote 71, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the proposal for a defence law and a proposal for a law on the Serbian Army. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 133, it did not vote 78 of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12564	You, Mr. President, can say the words you think you need. According to the Rules of Procedure, I heard from you before you put it to the vote, however, you do your will in good practice, regardless of the consequences. I wanted to try to reason with you not to combine the debate over these two points of the law, only the rapporteur is the same in those laws. Otherwise, if you already know that military intelligence is coming to you, from the Ministry of Defense, that the military is not preparing for the country's defense, then it is absolutely impossible to imagine a debate about the military and a debate about the defence of the country as a common one. What joins the army and the defense, the law of the army and the law of defense: the defense of the country. Since you have publicly declared yourself through all the people who are now asking themselves something in the military that the army is not preparing for the defence of the country but exclusively for interventions outside Serbia, which the Serbian army, as far as I have read, except once, at the time of King Milan, has never worked, then these two laws are incompatible. We have a country defense law to decide who will defend the country because they don't want an army, and the military law to decide what the army is going to do, what troops in the barracks are going to do after they're not ready to defend the country. That's the only reason I find it unimaginable to put together a law on the army and a law on defence, and in that way you can put thousands of laws together. These are fundamental basic laws. The debate about them does not come together, dear Mrs. Kolundjia, not even from party interests. It absolutely doesn't come together and we won't have any more important laws this year. Unless you plan on keeping them out of the agenda at all. I don't know, something could happen. We can go into obstruction of the work of the National Assembly, so you're free of debate. Only you play, I repeat, the domination of the DS over the military cannot be proven in this way. I'm so sorry that you DSS guys are running blindly in the discussion of these two DS laws. I'm very sorry, by putting you on the losing side of the next election, but that's your concern, I won't worry about you, but every reasonable, every benevolent person in this country will ask you to determine first by the defence strategy what it will look like to defend the country, and then the law on the defence of the country makes it impossible for us to find out what kind of defence of the country we need and how many units or whatever kind of organization we need for that defence of the country. It's not just a matter of speeding up the law on defence and military law because it's a prerequisite for the election of the President of the Republic, but it's a matter of making good laws, seeing if you're relying on that army and defending NATO or military neutrality or working with friends in the world. Let's see if SOFTA has had any verifications in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether truly American soldiers enjoy full protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, all it took was a single defence strategy for Serbia here, which we don't have, to determine from it, to come up with a defence law, and from it, the military law, and it's the only normal and right path for a normal country. Everything else is just speeding up, like you do today, in today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12565	Since we have agreed on proposals for the extension of the agenda and for the merger of the debate, on the basis of Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 134, against 9, it did not vote 65 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. D n n n i r e d: We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Defence and Proposal for a Law on Serbia's Military Law (Principles) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint search on the Proposal for a Law on the Defence and Proposal for a Law on Serbia, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that I have not received a notice so far on the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for these agenda points. I'm asking the MPs' groups to take it. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on defence and a bill on the Serbian Army. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12566	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we feel that the debate before us is very important and that we will certainly be very engaged in it, trying to contribute to the adoption of a better law that will regulate the area of defence and define on the new legal basis the role of the army in our country, and that is very necessary. However, I would not like to pass without comment a statement on the agenda. I find it humiliating for our parliamentary group to seek an explanation and initiative to put the parliament of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of the debate on the need to set up a committee of inquiry. I think it is necessary to open up a debate in this regard and through the conversation to answer the question whether the parliament really is in charge and whether it should discuss this huge anomaly that we point to, speaking of the monopoly and the financial political concentration of power in the hands of an individual of a company, I mean Mr. Miskovic and "Delta", or not. Parliament's refusal to discuss at all the reasons for forming a polling committee, so it does not even state whether it supports the polling committee or not, but whether it supports the debate on the need of the polling committee, much greater damage has been done than the one at first sight. By choosing between the interests of the parties and the interests of the citizens, parliament has simultaneously sent a message that it is not an institution that has the power to deal with those affairs that must be faced in organised parliamentary democracy. As a parliamentary group, we wanted to come here within Parliament to come up with solutions that are in the interests of citizens, not in the interest of voters of one, the other or the third party. We were very clear in the reasons and explanations we offered by asking for support for society, not for one party's initiative. The obstacles to the formation of the polling board are alleged politicisation, the accusation is that it is part of one election campaign, but this society has the right to know that the LDP was ready to withdraw from the polling committee, to leave the chairmanship of the polling committee to any other party, to do whatever is necessary to form a polling committee that would give answers to large questions. We continue our political fight, this initiative that has not received support in parliament, we will start in society, we are going to collect signatures that parliament will commit to the debate. And society today has received a clear message, a message that proves what we have been proving all along: that monopolies are a rule by which an individual and a company can drag an unpunished hand into the pocket of every man in this country, due to political impotence and political support, privatization of institutions and full distance from those obligations that we cannot withdraw, given that this is our legal duty. This parliament is obliged to protect the Constitution, to protect the laws, to protect the state institutions that it itself has formed, not one company and one individual, which destroys it all. By your decision, you have forced us to seek support for this initiative outside parliament, with citizens who have an understanding of what we have talked about, unfortunately much more than those who allegedly represent these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12567	Mr. Jovanovic, since there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly has already declared your proposal. So, the president asked if you wanted the word, the answer wasn't and it wasn't nice to break the Rules of Procedure afterwards. So the assembly came forward. Thank you. Ivan Andric, MP, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12568	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, before I quote which member of the Rules of Procedure, if you had listened to what the head of our parliamentary group was saying, you wouldn't have asked those questions. He explained why he did not want to take the floor into account, and why he reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'm reporting under Articles 104 and 225. Therefore, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, they are obliged to address one another with respect and are not allowed to use offensive expressions, etc. So, according to this article, as you all know, several meetings were held last week, a consultation of the heads of Parliament's groups. Some representatives, or leaders of political groups, have deceived all MPs, as well as all citizens, falsely explaining what happened at these meetings. This has to do with the contributions submitted by the LDP, along with the initiative of forming a survey board. First of all, I mean the head of the DSS parliamentary group. So I'll take the time to introduce all the MPs to the contributions we've made. So this is the thickness of our case against Delta, which each head of the parliamentary group has won. These contributions are made up of several parts. The first part is the C Market case. It contains documents, a memorandum of understanding, signed in the office of Vojislav Kostunica. It is a memorandum by which Miroslav Miskovic illegally came into possession of the "C Market". Furthermore, over the memorandum, the Council's memos on the fight against corruption to the Serbian government and a document that, at the expense of Delta, produced a consulting firm, Konsit, which is said to have "Delta" no dominant position. At the firm, Konzit is the wife of one of the ministers in the government of Slobodan Milosavljevic. That's usually why he's in our criminal rap sheet for criminal association. That is why Vojislav Kostunica, prime minister, is in the criminal report. The second item that was important to discuss is the Cyprus affair, or money laundering through the company Hemside Trade Limit, owned by Miroslav Miskovic. In our contributions there was an act on the establishment of the company, which shows that Miroslav Miskovic owns the company and the invoice, which has about 30 and shows that money is illegally sent from the Belgrade Bank in Cyprus at the expense of the company "Delta Bank" and Hemslaid limitid, as well as a lawsuit for money laundering at the District Court in Pozarevec, which has been rejected for unknown reasons. So the Cyprus affair was second. Third, cigarette smuggling "Delte", Interspid and Network Action. Each head of the parliamentary group has received an organisational scheme of the Network action, which clearly shows that there is a company called Delta Holding, this is a police document. Later, just let me finish, so I don't pick up any more. The company "Delta" is excluded from the process of organised cigarette smuggling and we have submitted evidence, so next to this document, there is an act on the establishment of the company "Interspid", which has been accused of cigarette smuggling and which shows that Miroslav Miskovic is co-owner of 50% of the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12569	Thank you, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12570	I'll get back to you. You can give me your word now or I can answer it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12571	You can't act like one. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12572	The US Embassy's internal document in Belgrade, which we still claim to be correct, has given you the opportunity to see in the news. Finally, over 50 different statements by state officials against the Anti-Corruption Council and against the Competition Protection Commission and against the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. So these were contributions, and that's what you voted against today, and you made us look elsewhere instead of looking through the institutions for the truth. And that the ruling majority wants to maintain an illusion that every citizen of this country knows is not true. So "Delta" is a monopoly. With this vote. You have actually voted against the protection of state institutions and against what every citizen of this country knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12573	The word is made by MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the topic of the LDP launched in this House a month ago, a month and a half ago, has indeed come across a major echo in Serbia's citizenship. For these very reasons, we LDP MPs have been buried with various materials that citizens from various cities have delivered to us, so that simply these problems can find their answers here in this Parliament, since they are not already able to find their answers in the institutions of this state, because they too are unfortunately controlled by those who control this Parliament. What happened was that I got the material that confirms that Kragujevac, the city from which I came, also became the property of that big company Delta. For example, the privatisation of TP Serbia was carried out with Delta's capital, then a whole series of very important facilities, located in the village of Bagremar, in the airport, were also purchased with Delta's capital. The anti-capitalization of UTP Kragujevac was also carried out, which resulted in this company, which means the majority, right now, holding Delta, at a percentage of 55.5, which is more than the law allowed, means 49%. When we asked for a survey committee to be set up, we actually wanted all those questions, which cannot be settled before the court, which the prosecution does not have the courage to initiate, simply, to find their answer here in parliament. What we said at the beginning, when we launched this initiative, is that the relationship between political parties in this House will show to what extent political parties are able to answer this important question, and to what extent are only the political exposures of one company or one man. What we just saw is that Miskovic's majority in this parliament is bigger than even Kostunica's majority, and that's terrible. Congratulations to New Serbia's MPs on the courage to support our initiative. I am truly sorry that those who have promised to support this initiative have not done so, but what I know for sure and what I can promise is that we will continue to work on this, to explain to people in Serbia what a monopoly is, and how monopolies affect their lives and what a responsible responsibility they buy the most expensive products in the region, from milk to cars. Everything is bought at Miskovic's and everything is bought at the highest prices in the region. Make sure he doesn't give it up on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12575	People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12576	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like first to quote a member by whom I have reported, so I would like to ask you to turn down my time while I quote. I answered under Rule 200: ''The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister must respond orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and send the reply to the MP in writing within eight days of the day when the question is asked. A written reply from the Government or the Minister of State shall be sent to the Members of Parliament. Exceptionally, if certain facts need to be identified in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. 'Please give me back my time while I quote a member. In early October, so nearly 60 days ago, I asked Justice Minister Petrovic how it is possible that the defendants of the most serious crimes, such as the Legion and Davidovic in Novi Sad, who was arrested during fascist protests, could give interviews from prison or detention units. I haven't received that answer in almost 60 days. The same minister, ten days ago, when we raised this issue in the Assembly, reacted sharply, asked us to deliver evidence and data to him. We also delivered evidence to the Assembly and data for the establishment of a survey board and the Ministry of Justice itself. What happened here today happened about a month ago on the Trade Committee, when we determined whether there were pressures on the Competition Commission by a company and by an executive government, specifically certain ministers. In addition to all the members of the commission saying that they were experiencing pressures from the executive authority, quoted those statements, the instructions made by the ministers, in the committee itself, the same thing happened today, the SRS MPs did not vote or remain silent, and the ruling majority MPs opposed, or said there was no pressure. That's what we've been through today. I don't see why I'm so afraid of opening this topic in the congregation. It is simply surprising that this congregation behaves as well as the one against whom we wanted to open the debate. Mr. Miskovic responded to all the charges we made on his account, that is, the evidence we offered, with one unfavorable text in his newspaper and went on a campaign through his media. Mr. Miskovic is unable to answer key questions, which is why in Serbia we pay all products more expensive than in all countries in the environment, even in some developed European countries. The citizens on the street know there's a monopoly, but I don't know why this state doesn't want to see it, or the executive power, or the judicial authority, or the Assembly, to discuss it. Mr. Miskovic is a man who spreads his empire every day, who began his empire to spread in Novi Sad as well. He won without a tender plot to make a new shopping mall, or centre like Delta City. It's a topic we'll also open up in public. We want to see who makes it possible for Mr. Miskovic and the Delta Company to become literally the owner of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12577	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12578	Mr. Chairman, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines the role of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. Who, by deciding to disable even the debate on the need to set up a survey committee that should answer the question whether there is an abuse in Delta's work or not, was represented by the majority in the National Assembly: their constituents or their financiers? The biggest party in Serbia is the party of robbed, cheated, disappointed, exploited, abused citizens. When we launched this initiative, we gave the parties in Serbia, especially parliamentary, particularly the parties that make up the government in this country the opportunity to correct the damage resulting from a chaotic time, in which apparently the political system was much more concerned with its own interests and interests than with the societies it should represent by working for it. Two weeks ago, the anti-monopoly commission decided for the second time to establish the monopoly position of Delta and points to a whole series of abuses that Delta subsequently found to be taking from every man living in this country 500 euros annually. Parliament must be interested in resolving this issue if what must be based on the constitutional roles and obligations that we, as MPs of this Parliament, have taken on ourselves, representing citizens' interests in the pre-election campaign and speaking on their behalf here on every agenda point when we protected these interests. The strange majority is formed here in the congregation, and the majority is actually talking about the depth of the problems we point to. There was no classic division of power and opposition, but actually voting on our initiative confirmed what we have said so many times in other cases so far. In contrast to us, several NGOs, the general public, are actually one ruined system, which serves one large party, internally divided into factions that conflict with one another when they are threatened with personal interests. Citizens should be satisfied, because without a single day of the survey committee, without a single session of the survey board, without any question on the survey board, we have received the answer we have asked. How is it possible for a company to become bigger than Serbia, and how is it possible for personal and private interest to dominate the public? By being a consequence of the partnership between individuals who abuse power and institutions who are unable to oppose these abuses, institutions like the one we are sitting in, like the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12579	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention that a member of 87 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, also participates members of the government, authorised representatives of other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly." We have received a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since 8 November 2007, that, for the government representative in the National Assembly, Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister, and for Commissioners Igor S. Jovičić, Aleksandar Miscevic and Zoran Jeftic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence and Major General Bozidar Forca, Head of Planning and Development of Serbia's General Staff. There are two identical notices about the defence bill and the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army. Mr. Albianic, from what I read, about Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly unequivocally states that the only one authorised to represent the government under these two draft laws is Minister Dragan Sutanovac and that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not know any category of government commissioners. So the only one who can represent the government under these two draft laws is Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. It is possible that the defence minister will say it is allowed under the Government's Rules of Procedure, but this is a session of the National Assembly, and this is where the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is applied, not the Rules of Procedure of Government. We in the SRS are absolutely clear why the government resorted to this harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. She wants to give the maneuvering space to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac that he does not have to sit all the time discussing these two extremely important draft laws, but has set out several, with due respect for these people, clay pigeons who need to endure all possible criticism and who need to take blows on the defence bill and on the proposal for a law on Serbia's Army. We, the MPs of the SRS, propose, Mr Albianic, that you give a break until the government delivers adequate information -- who is its representative in the National Assembly, which can only be the defence minister, because we want the defence minister to hear from us, not from his creditors, not from the ministry officials, but from the Ministry of Defence, who has the right to enroll Serbia in the NATO Pact, and that the people have not decided on it, who can say that the Serbian Army will not protect Serbia's borders in case the Cypriots unilaterally declare independence, who, without the National Assembly, can send Serbia's army to Iraq, Afghanistan and other occupation missions in the world? The only one who can answer those questions is the Secretary of Defense. It's an honor to everyone else, but only he can represent the Government by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12581	On the basis of Article 196. The Rules of Procedure, which reads - in addition to the draft laws, regulations or general acts or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall inform the National Assembly of its representatives and trustees for the meetings of the National Assembly and its committees. You're not happy with the answer. I ask the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote, as requested by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, heads of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why you from the ruling majority keep silent when the LDP calls you about the company Delta and Miroslav Miskovic, but since they're trying to get us involved in all of this, let me tell you, when the SRS attacks the LDP, it's like when a lice enters the hair -- it can't do much damage, it just bothers you, and you have to scratch yourself because it it itches. Mr. Jovanovic, this assembly will have something to discuss when it comes to you. Don't throw the fog, don't mess things up, you're charged with the most serious crimes possible. That's what we need to make a statement about. From the one you accuse of selling bread expensively. [[Louds from the bench: From whom?]] So, if I have to choose between what's more to blame and who's supposed to go to jail, I'd rather have the kidnappers, drug dealers go to jail, and the Assembly discusses what's more important. If the ruling majority forms a polling committee, we will be willing to participate in it. We have never, except when we suggest a point ourselves, participated in the vote of the agenda, don't expect it from us now. These are your internal things. This is now an argument in marriage, an ex-family, because I see pictures of your warm smiles in the government building, in an O.R. holding cabinet sessions with Miroslav Miskovic. You judge between yourselves. You've drunk out of one flock, now you've taken off on all sides, but if the attack on Miroslav Miskovic and the company "Delta" is for you to have a good campaign for the presidential election, it suits me. But if it is an attack on Miroslav Miskovic to raise the people against the company Delta, it is done in another way, by not seeing that you have raised citizens of Serbia against all companies, even those who have come free of charge to Serbian property, even those who have bought everything we have acquired at lower or double prices. You know very well, ever since you came to power, Mr Jovanovic, we have sold a good economy, and land, and water and air we sell, we have nothing left. Now we have to deal with those you created. I agree, provide sufficient evidence to the Republic Public Prosecutor. If he doesn't launch any investigation into it, I think it's over, because I sued Kostunica and Tadic, even for the military. And Vuk Draskovic, and I've always been informed by the prosecutor that there is no basis for prosecution. What could I do? You say you'll take the people to the streets. What if Miskovic says he will report his 30,000 employees against you? What are we going to do, fight in the streets? How many people can you do? Are you ready to fight? So, by irritated by other parliamentary groups, by pushing us all criminals who spend Miroslav Miskovic's money, you challenge me to resist. If I were to call you this, called by your MPs, who know nothing else, nor did they do anything else in life, if I could support you in your intentions? Have you at least obtained support from any of the parliamentary groups in Serbia for what you are asking for? The easiest way is, a handful of you who once ran into Serbia, seduced the state of emergency, kidnapped people, killed people, killed witnesses, the easiest thing to do is to irritate the National Assembly and the SRS here. So, don't mention us, we're not in power, we're never in any business, never in any benefits, never in any favor of the SRS, never in any way able to give Miroslav Miskovic or give him. He was developing at one time, becoming a multimillionaire in your time, you charged him extraprofit, which was a little more than an extra profit for my apartment from the state, so now you're scratching your head when you're hit by lice, and we're gonna climb that powder, you're gone after the next election, and we're gonna move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12583	I would only give one notice before I give a word to the MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, 3. 12. In 2007, at 13.30 p.m. at the Green Salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12584	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker was unable to understand the LDP initiative or does not want to understand it. I'd like to answer, Mr. Nikolic, in a clear language. I don't mind your coffee shop with Miskovic, but I do mind the price of that coffee shop, and it's too high, 500 euros per citizen of this country a year. I personally suggested that you be the chairman of this committee of inquiry. I have proposed to the representatives of parliamentary groups that we do not participate in the work of the committee of inquiry. I suggested withdrawing LDP from the polling board, we just didn't want to compromise on the essential issue -- giving answers to Delta's monopoly position. We haven't talked about violence at any time. We called for legal and constitutional rights when we announced the collection of signatures, Mr. Nikolic, of those citizens who have been robbing Delta every day, because that's the only right word for what's been going on in this country for years. The questions we have asked are questions that open up the possibility and question our responsibility. I think it's clear evidence that we have no reason to feel threatened, let alone as guilty of something that happened in this country, unless the fault is that we didn't finish the job. They're the ones we want to continue, and we're looking for citizens' support. And in the case of monopoly, concentration of financial and political power, open robbery -- we have requested support from both your parliamentary groups and you personally. Because we think that this is your political obligation, given that you are the leader of a party that is acting on behalf of the protection of the public interest of the citizens of this country who vote for you. You mentioned kidnappings, you mentioned murders, serious crimes. You do what you know best, slander, lie, choose no funds in dealing with your political opponents and do not agree to just one thing: to appear before an institution and ask for an answer to such a thing. Your insults are my privilege, and I invite you once to be as you were, let's say, when I said that you showed that you were a greater politician than those who brought you into that shameful position where you had been for three days, admireing the position of President of the Russian Parliament and regretting that we were not KGB governors. I'm sorry I can't tell you today that you're a politician worthy of millions of citizens voting for you. You do not insult me, you insult those who live in suburbs, who are pushing themselves in front of Delta City to buy oil for 30 dinars cheaper, because they are honored by those who take 500 euros each year unscrupulously, counting on the support of the political system. That's exactly the question of power, not the opposition. But when the government shuts up, then the opposition has to prove that the opposition, not the rat, is a failed and incompetent authority, which you have so many times confirmed by your actions, there's no need to continue this discussion. I invite you to go to the polls and say in those elections, vote for me to bring you back to the happy '90s. And you'll get an answer to that. I'm glad this is your last presidential campaign, because you said it yourself. I'm sure there's nothing to look for in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12585	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12586	I don't know what I dared Mr. Jovanovic to do when he doesn't blame me for the lice. I thought it was the most serious thing I could send to a group like this. So I never lie. I heard this about murder and kidnapping from the man you kidnapped. The whole of Serbia has read it. I didn't make that up, and I'm not lying to embarrass you. So someone has to react there. As an ordinary citizen, I learned from a man who was estranged that you were involved. What do I have to lie about? I didn't even lie when I said you were going to jail whenever you wanted, taking out whoever you wanted, keeping him out on the field as long as you wanted and returning him whenever you wanted. I didn't even lie when I said you dropped an artificial fork in the pool at Surcinac or Zemunac, when you were swimming in their pool. I'm not lying. I'm just saying, Mr. Jovanovic, you've left too much trail, too much bad, in Serbia since 2000, too much bad a lead so you can go back to the political scene. I thought Boris Tadic would be your main rival in the presidential election. Now you're saying I don't want to do politics anymore, and I'm going to beat Boris Tadic, Because he could've been with you guys. [[Applause]] What kind of president of Serbia has Cedomir Jovanovic commanded? How will Boris Tadic say: I am your real president? Someone will ask him - wait, wait, you were commanded by Cedomir Jovanovic, then you were a tiny flea when Jovanovic was harassing the DS. Cedomir Jovanovic's heritage to Zoran Djindjic, not Boris Tadic. Here's these chickens around you, they're all Djindjic's. Where are they here? Something wasn't right, or it's not right now. But one thing's right-- was it not a good gang around Zoran Djindjic, or is it not good for these new guys that don't want to hang out with that gang? You, Mr. Jovanovic, are the ugliest thing Serbia can see. A little, young man, as our president said, a pizza boy. That's how you got on the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12587	Please, Mr. Nikolic, let's take care of the terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12588	That's how you entered the political scene, with 15 bodyguards. They taught you in 25 years to go with 15 bodyguards, to cross the street where you want to, to draw passages after that in that place where you went to put monuments -- where Cedomir Jovanovic crossed the street. What's worth in politics - that America pushes you? In the conflict between America and Miskovic, I will stand on Miskovic's side, so you accuse me of whatever you want. Find a bill that helped him get the money. Find an SRS vote that allowed Miskovic to reach the money. Let's look for what you've been doing with them since 2001. How did this empire become? You say -- buy this, buy what, at whose time? At a time whose authority and who commanded here, in the third bench, the DOS parliamentary group - Cedomir Jovanovic? Who was giving him instructions - Zoran Djindjic? What do you want now? Let's cancel out first for all your operations since 2001 so we can undo the consequences. No, we'll remove your consequences, and you'll still be on the political scene. We've all been searching for our sins. The people punished us while he thought we were guilty, so when he realized there was no fault of radicals, there we were again at the top and we'd be on top for a very long time. Because who's our competition? Who's our competition - you and DSS, and DSS. Look at what you can tell each other. To drag us into that conflict - so there's no possibility? First, clear between yourselves, from October 5th to October. Where's the weapon from the street? Mother Jerosim, where is Mr. Jovanovic, where you hid him. Tell us where you hid, the bar that we know. You can't talk about honesty, politics, campaigning at Delta Company. You're free to do so, but you're not dragging the congregation into it, and you're not dragging the radicals into it. I had coffee with Miskovic. I never even paid, it's not expensive coffee at all. Whoever calls me for coffee, I don't pay for coffee just for work. I don't charge him for coffee. There's something to talk to him about. Just tie me to him for some business, for some of his own good. Don't take five MPs to action against one company in Serbia and expect the rest to join you - there's no way. But when the big ones go, they expect someone to join them. We run after you? Where do we run - to the American Embassy? Where's your legal place, where's your water, where's your seat- if you even know those Serbian words? [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12589	Let's see exactly how many MPs appear in the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. We still have to consult each other. This is where I set a lunch break. We'll continue at 14.40 hours. I pray that we all calm down and continue on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I'm notifying you, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, to extend the work after 18.00 hours and that we will complete the work of today's session after the completion of these agenda points. I give my word to Minister Sutanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12591	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two laws before you today, a law on defence and a law on the military, whose adoption of the Republic of Serbia, as an independent and independent state, finally receives an institutional framework for the regulation and functioning of a single defence system. The defence system must guarantee more things, of which I will only count what is most important, which is independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the national identity of its citizens, the preservation and development of democratic processes in society, internal security, economic, technological and cultural progress, the protection of life and the health of the population, the protection of the environment, and all other protection potentials and resources of our country. At the same time, the functional and efficient defence system of the Republic of Serbia is an active factor in maintaining regional stability, as an important element in creating the necessary environment to strengthen its own security and a favourable security environment. The proposed legislative projects are aimed at creating a favourable social environment to further build and develop a modern defence system that will enable: an effective defence system as a guarantee of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, a favourable security environment and peace in the region and integration processes in line with the interests of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, we expect intensive activities in the further transformation of the Serbia Army's defence, modernisation and professionalisation system, strengthening its operational and functional capacity, reforming civil defence and defence institutions, building support mechanisms to counter armed and unarmed security threats, as well as preparing Serbia's army for participation in multinational operations to build peace in the region and the world. The adoption of these laws will allow for further development of defence institutions, with the task of adequately responding to all modern military and non-war challenges, risks and threats. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present what citizens of the Republic of Serbia and members of the Ministry of Defence can expect by adopting new laws. The defence system of the Republic of Serbia will no longer be closed to the public and citizens. We have seen that only in this way can the Serbian Army build a reputation and gain citizens' support. One of the most important newspapers in these laws is the introduction of the Institute of Democratic and Civil Control of the Army, which has not been the case so far, and I believe that this is one of the most important principles that enables respect for constitutionality and legality, respect for human and minority rights, as well as respect for civil freedoms. This practically ensures the political, ideological and interesting neutrality of the Serbian Army and its members. The democratic and civilian control of Serbia's military will be carried out by the National Assembly, the Government, other state authorities in accordance with their respective responsibilities, citizens and of course the public. The proposed laws regulate the competences of the institutions of the legislative and executive authorities. This provides an institutional framework for the stable functioning of the Republic of Serbia's defence system. The defence system is managed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is established and implemented through the adoption of laws, decisions, acts and strategic-doctrinal, as well as the planning documents, as well as by the conduct of democratic and civil control of the work of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Serbian Army. The president of the Republic commands the military in war and peace, the government of the Republic of Serbia determines and leads the defence policy, and the defence minister heads Serbia's Army. Serbia's Army Chief of Staff and Chiefs of Staff are in command and in command of Serbia's military in accordance with the law and acts of command of the superiors. The rights and responsibilities of citizens in the defence of the Republic of Serbia are provided based on the Constitution-guaranteed human and minority rights and freedoms. Citizens who have a military obligation for religious, moral, or other reasons of conscience want to replace civil service with law will be granted the possibility of civil service. In this way, one of the fundamental human rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution is fully protected. One of the newspapers that this law adopts, which is actually based on the tradition of the Serbian Army, is the achievement of the freedom of the citizens' religion and will be able to organise a religious service in Serbia's military. These laws prohibit any paramilitary organisation and association to carry out tasks in the defence of the country. A common civil-military air traffic management system is established for defence purposes. The Serbian Army's general staff is part of the defence ministry, performing tasks under its jurisdiction in accordance with the law and powers of the president of the Republic and the defence minister. It is created that specific areas in the defence system are governed by laws as special legislative matter, I mean, above all, military, labour, material obligations, civil service, civil protection systems and others, which interrupts inherited practice to regulate such important issues through regulations in the Serbian government. The same law regulates the rights and responsibilities of citizens in relation to their participation in the protection and rescue of people, material, cultural and other goods and environments, as well as the measures and activities undertaken by civil protection authorities. The rights, duties, interrelationships of the body of the administration in planning and carrying out tasks of mobilization of defence entities are defined. The way international co-operation in the area of defence and enforcement of international obligations stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia into the UN and the obligations undertaken by international contracts is being arranged. Legislative assumptions are being created to finance the development needs of the defence system, the modernisation of arms and military equipment, as well as to finance the housing needs of professional members of the Serbian Army. The way in which the Republic of Serbia or the declaration of war is declared is regulated and decided. The basis is that, in line with the real needs of defence and the available human and material resources of the Republic of Serbia, the reorganisation and transformation of the Army of Serbia are continued. The rights and responsibilities and mutual relations of the authorities in command, leadership and engagement of the Serbian Army under conditions of emergency and wartime are defined. Conditions are being created to maintain the necessary level of operational and functional training of the Serbian Army and their constant control. Also, these laws prohibit military personnel from attending political gatherings in uniform and any political activity other than the use of active voting rights. These laws lay down the right of professional members of the Serbian Army to a union organisation, according to the Constitution, that is one of the newspapers, given the specificity of military service. Professional members of the Serbian Army are not allowed to strike. Highlighting and wearing of the symbols and markings of the Serbian Army are prohibited in a way that would violate the reputation of the Serbian Army and the acts of the Serbian Army are fitting in line with the widely accepted standards and appropriate to the organisation and structure of the army. The rank of first-class captain is abolished, and the rank of Brigadier General is introduced, which is a widely accepted standard in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to tell you that a large group of defence and security experts have worked on these laws. Since September, we've put our laws on the Ministry of Defense site and we've been getting a lot of suggestions from that moment on, and I'm free to say criticism. We've incorporated a huge number of these suggestions into these laws. I must say that this morning's debate on the Committee on Defence and Security, as well as a relatively small number of amendments that have arrived at these laws, points out that I am sure that you will mostly support these laws, because these laws are indeed arranged for the benefit of not only the defence system, but for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. I thank you and want to take active part, indeed, in further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12592	Does the rapporteur of the Defence and Security Committee, MP Ivica Dacic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the break. I really don't understand how the president of the National Assembly could give the word to Minister Sutanovac when I first reported to the Rules of Procedure. It is an elemental rule that the MP who makes his appointment under the Rules of Procedure has the highest priority in relation to all other Members of the People and to the representative of the Proposer. I'm staying with what I said, that an injured member of 87 is. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because that member of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that a representative under the bill can only be a member of the government. The only member of the government, currently sitting in the National Assembly, is Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Article 87 clearly states that when a member of the government participates in a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as an authorised representative of the proposings, he has virtually certain rights which the MPs also have. First of all, he has the right to participate in the work in the sense of discussing, or to answer questions, objections, comments, suggestions, etc., given by MPs. I asked, when we discussed the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State and local self-government, whether he was authorized by the Minister or by the Government to be able to discuss, or whether he could answer the questions of the MPs, he said he couldn't. Now I'm wondering if these so-called. the trustees appointed by the Government have the right to discuss, or to explain, what the bill says. Can they answer the question of MPs or will they just sit here? Then the debate on the bill doesn't have much purpose. We had opportunities, when we discussed the draft law on the President of the Republic and on elections for the President of the Republic, very often to talk in the wind. The Minister for State Administration and local self-government has often not been present in the hall, although he was an authorised representative of the government, and the State Secretary, or his deputy, was not authorized to discuss. It's simply a man's question, what's the discussion, what's the point of reading these bill proposals, what's the question if there's no one to answer these questions? So, if article 87 says that a session of the National Assembly, when it comes to the debate on the bill, can only be attended by members of the government, then I really don't know, Mr. Vice President, what this is about and what is the dispute and what are the dilemmas about. So, if you think that trustees can also sit in the National Assembly Hall, then it would be good for the defence minister to answer our previous question: can they go out for a pay phone and answer the questions of the MPs? If they have no right to do so, then the whole debate is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12594	They do not have the right to speak, ministers can come out under our law, vice-president and Prime Minister can, and may, the Republic Secretary for Legislative Affairs. The government's representative is Minister Sutanovac and he's the only one who can go out for a pay phone. Mr Sutanovac, the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be here throughout today's debate, of course, when they are amended. That's understood. He's the only one who can go out for a pay phone. That was the question, and I was like the chairman. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12595	Dear People's MPs, I'm advocating a violation of Article 226. Mr. Vice President, should I read it or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12596	Go ahead, but there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12597	"The MP has the right to ask for explanations and information from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to fulfil the function of the MP." Dear People's MPs, a military ammunition warehouse near Paracino served 19 people, which guards, which warehouses. An explosion of ammunition reportedly caused a poor installation in the warehouses. The explosion happened, Mr. Minister, in the daytime, was awe-increasing and has aroused the entire city. There's more than a mile of grenades. I'm asking, is it true that the installations were the cause of the explosion, with the fact that of the 19 people who had to be in those warehouses, none of them were scratched? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12598	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Balint Pastor, as head of the Manjin parliamentary group. I would like to inform you that for the LDP parliamentary group, an authorised representative for this item of the agenda is a National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12599	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on defence and a bill on Serbia's Army. At first glance, we can judge that these regulations were written in haste, that the only thing that mattered was that the formal conditions of the Constitutional Law for calling presidential elections were met as soon as possible. It was important for these draft laws to come before the MPs as soon as possible, to be adopted as soon as possible in the National Assembly, and to discuss the presidential elections as soon as possible, although the opposition still does not have the right to know the date of the call and date of the presidential election. I asked Mr. President of the National Assembly Oliver Dulic from this place a week ago when the opposition will have the right to know when the presidential elections will be held in this country and when the opposition in the National Assembly will have the right to know when these presidential elections will be held. I must also say that in these laws, the law on the Serbian Army and the law on defence, at least a public debate was organised, unlike, say, the proposal for a law on the foundations and arrangements of the Security Service, where the bill best shows that the sole objective of these laws is to adopt laws for the purpose of calling presidential elections, meaning to achieve the preconditions provided for by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution. When I say that these laws are written in haste, what am I based on my claim? Let's just say, when we talk about the Serbian Army bill, there are no provisions in this bill on military obligations at all. So we can get the impression that there is a professional army in the Republic of Serbia. When we take a closer look at this bill, we can also see that this bill lacks provisions on health insurance, on pension-involved insurance of members of the Serbian Army. So we can't say it's a professional army. So there are two very significant segments in this bill. I can understand that it is my intention to pass a special law on military obligations, but I do not understand why this bill is not before the MPs, that the National Assembly will adopt a bill on defence, a bill on Serbia's Army and a draft law on military obligations. So we have to say that it is an empty law, an empty bill, in which there are no very significant issues, that is, not regulated. Of course, I wouldn't want to analyse certain provisions of this bill. You know what the target is. The aim is for the National Assembly, as a voting machine, to adopt as soon as possible by the end of the week these laws, as well as the law on external affairs and the law on the foundations of security services, and for the president of the National Assembly to call the next week's presidential elections, although that is only a presumption, and that is, of course, a conjecture, because, as I said earlier, the opposition in this high house has no right to know when these presidential elections will be held. When I said earlier that it was empty laws, then I based this claim on the fact that very significant segments are not regulated by these bill proposals. Mr. Minister did not say that 137 provisions of the Yugoslav Army Law remain in force. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are almost five years from the end and the last Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro, have the Law on the Yugoslav Army, which will partly remain in force. So the Law on the Yugoslav Army will regulate such important issues as military obligations. So much for the proposals of these laws. I would take the opportunity to have Mr. Defence Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Dragan Sutanovac and ask two questions. I ask the Honorable Minister to answer those questions. The first question is, I guess, a simple and short question, and it's about NATO. Under the constitution, the government is leading politics, but MPs cannot judge what the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is in relation to NATO, compared to the military alliance. Mr. Minister said the Republic of Serbia is not ready to join NATO at the moment. That, of course, is right, that's right. We simply cannot judge whether the Republic of Serbia is even seeking the military alliance. There's no telling what the government's policy is. Is, on this point, the government's policy what President Kostunica represents or one third of the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The DSS or the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, in relation to this issue, is that policy represented by DS and, I suppose, Dragan Sutanovac, who is a member of the DS? As far as G17 is concerned, we don't know what the G17's specific position is on this issue. The SVM has been pushing for Euro-Atlantic integration and for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU and NATO since its founding. Unlike some parties, SVM has not changed its programme regarding the issue of joining the Republic of Serbia, so I would take the opportunity to ask Mr. Minister what is the government's policy? It is clear that the decision should be taken by citizens in the referendum, but I would ask him what the government's position is at this point in the accession of the Republic of Serbia to NATO? The second question is a little more complicated maybe. Also, I'm asking Mr. Minister to answer me. I didn't want to ask this question in writing, I didn't want to ask this question even when the parliamentary questions were on the agenda, because I wanted to get an answer from the Secretary of Defense. The issue refers to the delivery of military calls to Western Bacakh, of course, not only in Western Back, but the last 5,400 calls in the Novi Sad military district have been delivered. I know about Sombor, Apatin, Odjaks and The Tower. Officially, it's about calling military officials to announce their military schedule. I must tell Mr. Minister that there is enormous concern in the Hungarian life in Vojvodina. First we've got a list of empty houses, and now we've got a war schedule announcement. It's like the time wheel is going backwards, like we're back in the '90s. There is simply the fear of the duchy Hungarians, but I suppose not only the duchy Hungarians, of mobilization. Unfortunately, statements by the minister do not contribute to calming passion. In addition, there are the ministry's action plans for a unilateral declaration of independence. We believe that this concern is not unwarranted. Mr. Minister, the goal of asking this question is to clear this up, not to spread panic, but to die citizens. That's why I'm asking this question. I must stress that the duchy Hungarians are loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but they no longer want to participate in any war. In the 1990s, we participated in a war, in which officially neither the Republic of Serbia participated. The same people, who have now received a call for a military schedule announcement, these same people have one day woke up on the front, and that's why there's this concern. There is a statement by the Ministry of Defence on the site, which says this activity is planned, that there is an organisational and formal change in Serbia's military and that a rejuvenation of reserve personnel is under way. We simply believe that this statement is not very convincing, does not contribute sufficiently to calming passion and reducing concern, which is why I am asking Mr. Minister to answer these questions. The following questions are raised: what regulation does this action take when it is currently being passed, in these moments, in the National Assembly, a new law on defence and a new law on the Serbian Army? Why was this statement not given in good time and why no convincing explanation was given? Is this just the first step? So, can Mr Sutanovac, as defence minister in the Republic of Serbia, guarantee that Serbia will not fight and that these citizens simply have no reason to worry and have no reason to be anxious? Finally, I would like to say that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians called in a statement last week to respond to the call, but I would like to point out once again that this statement by the Ministry of Defence is not even a timely statement, it is not a convincing statement, so I would pray, with the best intentions indeed, that Mr. Sutanovac will answer these questions, and that this issue is cleared, means that from a resolute minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, we hear an explanation and the answer that Serbia will not be at war and that these people have no reason to worry about the calls from the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12600	Nebojsa Rangelovic, MP of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12601	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, it is obvious that the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army, as system laws, were necessary, important, and that much earlier thought had to be made. Their content suggests that they were made quite quickly, or in a hurry, because apparently someone was in a hurry, with a desire to rule with such a content persuaded because it was a constitutional obligation. They're full of inconsistencies, mostly linguistic and then essential. So from all this that tells us the contents of these laws, these laws are kind of a combination of various solutions. In fact, the content shows that there are many solutions that have been taken from the legislation of NATO-led countries. On the other hand, there are many solutions from the old law, some of which are inapplicable. Also, the fundamental question is why the merger of these two agenda points was carried out, as the law on defence and the law on Serbia's military, as important system laws, deserves to have a separate debate. As for the law on defence, the LDP parliamentary group has a lot of fundamental issues. Some of them we tried to place through the proposed amendments, and some we'll talk about through the discussion. Before I start talking about the metrics, which is the very content of the law, I would like to ask a few principled remarks and a few questions for Mr. Minister and the Government of Serbia. First, I would ask the question of the Serbian government's relationship to joining our country's NATO pact. The intensities are obvious, it tells us the most about these laws, and on the other hand, the prime minister and many government ministers speak of the military or military neutrality of our country and say that we are far from the NATO Pact. And there's one fundamental question. One of the conditions for accession to the European Union is also close co-operation with the NATO Pact and NATO accession, since President Tadic also spoke, however, we are receiving contradictory tones from the government, so it would be very important for us to have Mr Minister clarifying these concerns. Also, a principled remark and a principled question, and it concerns the very content of this law. The question arises: how is it that an officer does not have the right to be a member of a political party and that the commander-in-chief, in line with what was voted today in parliament, or in accordance with the law on the President of the Republic, can be a member of the political party? This antinomity can also be material for discussion in front of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to get an explanation for that question. As far as the Military Act is concerned, it is obvious that, when this draft was drawn up, the provisions of the applicable Law on Police and the Law on Civil Service Officers, which are in some parts inapplicable to the military, are as a specific socio-technical system. In addition, the principle remark is that the bill on Serbia's Army is incomplete. It does not regulate all the questions that should otherwise be regulated by this law. In the transitional and final provisions, in Article 198, it was left in the legal capacity of almost half of the so far-appliced Law on the Military of Yugoslavia. I wonder why it's so done. Therefore, this can also draw the conclusion of the necessity to pass a comprehensive law which, if necessary, would prescribe provisions of the Law on the Yugoslav Army, should they be assessed to fully regulate this area. It is also necessary to define the provisions on the financing of the Serbian Army, in accordance with Chapter 9. Proposal for a defense law. Furthermore, the powers of the President of the Republic, the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Staff, who are otherwise misdefined in the bill itself. Certain responsibilities are established for certain functions and are then transferred to other persons, which is a feature of individual members of the Military Law Proposal. Thus, the proposed competences should be reduced to the minimum possible extent by the right to define competences for certain national functions. In all the articles in which these terms are defined, i.e. in which all concepts are defined by the use of male origin, this is where we plead that gender equality is recognised in this law. So, by intruding to previous legal solutions, these solutions need to be lexically adapted to the gender equality fact in the military, which is highlighted in Article 13 of this bill. As for the defense law, I was just talking about some inconsistencies in its contents. First, in chapter two, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the field of defence, we believe that the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is inconsistencies, i.e. there are no provisions on direct or control over its bodies that the Assembly should exercise over the defence system and Serbia's Army. Also, as regards the provisions on the powers of the President of the Republic, the question is raised, and this is also brought about with regard to constitutional provisions concerning the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic as regards military command. In fact, Article 112 says: "The President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military and sets up, advances and dissuades the officers of the Serbian Army. ''The proposal for a law on defence states that jurisdiction and order is the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Serbia. This jurisdiction is not recognised in the text of the Constitution. We'd also like that to be explained. Of course, there are also parts of this law that should be strongly supported and, of course, since criticism is not the basic characteristic of LDP and of our parliamentary groups, I will also point to those members. For example, Article 9th century 4th and 5th that define the existence of the main officer and his post in support of the command system, we are pleased that the solutions already recognised by the NATO Pact countries and which recognise the countries in the environment, in particular Croatia, are prescribed here, and we believe that this solution should be strongly supported. I'd also like to establish one more essential question. Time allows me. It's about religious service. That question also arises in the defense law. We're interested in what the Department of Defense's intel on this matter is. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 25th and 26th laws only mention, but do not define the These should be principled and fundamental objections to these draft laws. Mr. Chairman, I would retain the right to use the LDP parliamentary group in the final word for another ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12602	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in public, we have often made remarks about how DS and its partners in DOS understand the military and the defence, the ambiguity in their statements, in particular the statements of people who really hand over all vital functions to themselves with regard to the defence of the country and the commanding of the military. So our negative attitude towards these two laws is absolutely clear and justified. It is not to be commended that many amendments have not arrived on these drafts of the law. You should know that the laws were included in the procedure on the same day, so on November 9th, when you sent them here, that at that time there was a serious debate on the serious proposals of the law, that a session scheduled for these laws was scheduled only the day before the deadline for amendments were due. So whoever wanted a serious debate on these bill proposals should have left enough time for the National Assembly from the moment the bill entered into the assembly procedure until the session was scheduled. The collapse of the Yugoslav and Serbian-Montenegro-Montenegro armies has begun since that unfortunate Krapovic, continued with Boris Tadic's ministry and passed on to the minister of the current Sutanovac minister, as it is the same principle and the same attitude towards the military and the officers. I admit, most officers deserve this kick in the ass because not one day and no hour and no seconds have rebelled against what DOS is doing to the Serbian army, all counting on them not being hooked up. That is why now the commanding of Serbia's army is left to the DS officers. This story about how officers can't be members of political parties and they can't go to meetings is and we'll find it somewhere, I've noted to myself that I'm responding, it's a story for little kids. This is where political-like officers are sought who don't even know what they're supposed to be like. It's so ambiguous and so hypocritical and two-way military command and defense command. Here you say the army is under civil and democratic control, but now the military is under civilian command. Now the defence minister is a god for Serbia's army. Not the one who helps them, not the one who cares about having as much budget as possible, being as equipped, dressed, dressed, fed. No, it's the one who commands, it's the one who proposes that the law be the General Staff and be one department of the Department of Defense. Gentlemen, the officers are silent. There are those of us who listened to a bullet buzzing around our ears, and none of us would dare command the General Staff. And you see in the DS there are people who can do it, dearly, very easily. You retired generals who are 48 years old, and you're telling us about the generals. So Boris Tadic retired General Bozidar Delic when he turned 48. You want a list of 50-year-old generals? I've got it all, of course, and I'm waiting for a day when I'll finally form an army properly. Then the army will be commanded by professional, capable and patriots, first of all, not NATO officers. The basis of retirement was not incompetence, there were no disciplinary violations, there was no state of incurability from opiates, no, there was participation in the war. You've chased all the warriors. Perhaps there was another general who participated in war operations against NATO or in the struggle to preserve the state, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was an army task, under the then constitution. All are now forgotten military pensioners, whose current chief of staff who commanded a smaller unit than you, Mr. Sutanovac, in his entire career, says: it is not the knowledge of retired generals' club, but knowledge in Brussels. Excuse me, as long as such men write military laws and defenses, the SRS must be against it. What's the basis for the defense law? Defense strategy. Who do you leave that defense strategy to? What's it come from? He's not going to come up with the military law and the defense law to develop a defence strategy, a plan to develop the armed forces. The defence strategy is a basic document. We want to hear from you here from the Supreme Commander, the President of the Republic, what is Serbia's defence based on? Is it military neutrality, according to the Prime Minister, and even employs its own party and all media in Serbia are engaged to promote so-called. A soldier's neutrality? Is the path to NATO promoting your party president and president of Serbia. How will you, ladies and gentlemen, who represent the majority of the government vote unitedly for this law? Will you be satisfied with those who do not want Serbia to join NATO or will you be satisfied with those who want Serbia to join NATO? Or all of this is so hidden that you can represent that you are satisfied with each other and that the citizens of Serbia are never satisfied with it. Under the constitution, the President of the Republic is in command of the military and, of course, it will not be disputed when the President of the Republic, as in the current term, and the defence minister are from the same political party. A sharp issue of the conflict between the defence ministry and the president of the Republic is being raised following the next presidential elections. Until this government changes, you, Mr Sutanovac, are likely to be defence minister, Tadic will not be Serbia's president. Then we'll get into a situation where you sometimes have to consult me, and sometimes you don't have to. Then what will the General Staff do, which should be operationally in command of Serbia's Army, we have suggested it to you with one amendment, and you have put it there somewhere, when you read the jurisdiction of the General Staff, it comes to you to cry. Imagine now, the generals at the time of Misic, when he was supposed to retire for the night 40km and win the biggest victory in World War I, who should he invite to Belgrade? You're an asshole. To be approved by such a maneuver, now being studied at the West Point. It can be studied in Insbrook, you may have heard something about it there, but imagine a general who would have to ask me, you, it doesn't matter who. Which one of us has reached such a level that it can say: I put under my command the General Staff of the Serbian Army? Or, in the attached final provisions, you say what we did not regulate is still regulated by measures to protect Serbia-Montenegro. Well, at least say in the part about Serbia. No, you're not that either, you want to humiliate us as much as people who have nothing to decide at all, because that's what the DS suggested. We have the President of the Republic, we have the Secretary of Defense, what are you others wondering? You are introducing and serving religious rituals into the military, even for religious communities. You haven't defined what religious communities are, what sects are. Now will the army decide who can perform religious rituals or not, or will they all be able to perform? What's it gonna look like when the days of fasting start, which takes a month? Will the army be able to fast? Will the army be able to bow? Will the army conflict on the basis of different religions? It was most important for you to write one law and it was easy for you to write, you don't know the problems of the army at all. The defence problems you do not know at all, or I did not read the defence ministry's statements well, saying Serbia will not militaryly defend its territory. Then why does it say it here in the law, even ambiguously, first only for attacks on the outside, and then, secondly, the Serbian Army will be used. Because someone said stop, if we say just outside, we're now saying we're not going to defend Kosovo and Metohija, because it's inside, because it's from Serbia, from one part of Serbia's territory. The easiest thing to do is to prescribe provisions on who's a senior officer, who's an officer, how many internships he needs, how you can move him, how he can lose the service of a professional in the military -- very easily, if you don't like it. So broadly placed the diapazon that no one who decides to be a professional soldier in the Serbian Army is certain that within a month will stop his working relationship if they call him there and say, "Who are you for?" Who does it have to be for? Who do doctors, nurses, cleaners have to be for? Who do train drivers have to be for? You've shared everything. All you know is who has to have a piece of bread in Serbia, so soldiers will have to be there for you to have that piece of bread, because they don't know when to change power, because it's no longer a criterion of expertise. If that were a criterion, where would Zdravko Posh be today? Chief of General Staff? It's a disgrace to the Serbian Army. That's what I'm telling you from the pay phone right now, it's a shame. If I'd known it could've been solved somehow, if the president of the DSS had been prepared to just replace Zdravko Ponoša, we would've helped him form his own government. So much is in danger when Zdravko Poš is the Chief of Staff and when he joins you, Mr. Sutanovac, that's the defence the Albanians will want. All your public statements are about how we don't have an army. You've had so much influence on public opinion that every Serbian citizen will tell you: we don't have an army. Who's spreading these stories? You from the Department of Defense and you from the Army. Maybe we don't have an army, you don't tell anyone. What's the army for? To distract, like a strong house. A house that's under cameras, alarms, controlled by the police, certainly isn't a target for a robbery. A state defended by a well-equipped army, even if it is a small state and a weak army, is not the target of an attack. No one will risk the lives of their soldiers. A state where all senior officials say we don't have an army is the target of an attack. A state where both the minister and the Chief of Staff and the President of the Republic say that we and the Albanians will not war over Kosovo and Metohija is a country that will lose Kosovo and Metohija. Excuse me, please, keep your forest safe and say I'm guarding the forest, but I don't want anyone touching my woods, I don't want to report it, I don't want to attack it, I don't want anything. So who wouldn't cut your woods? I don't believe you want to think about defense. You don't think about defense here. You're writing a law to have elections for the President of the Republic, not to have the country's defence. Your defense of the country is not your goal. I agree, it's hard to talk about war. If he loved war, I hope it was at war in his house. But, it stands, there is a fact that sometimes someone in the world will have to fight. I wish we never fought that war. How can we not fight? First, tell us finally who our ally is. Tell us who we're working with. Tell us who's going to equip us? Is that NATO or Russia? We're at a crossroads and you know it very well. NATO is attacking us, NATO wants to defend us. From who? He says we're going to join NATO, I hear someone talking today. For what? Excuse me, what is the reason for Serbia to join NATO? Is she in danger? Who's she surrounded by NATO? Who are we threatened with being completely surrounded by NATO? Here, they'll see Macedonia now, they'll see Albania, they'll receive Croatia, all around us NATO, so who's going to attack us? Is Russia going to shoot us through the NATO Pact? He won't. They need another servant. And why would we be servants to those who take away our Kosovo and the Metohija? Why don't we say we're not going to NATO, because you bombed here, here, here, you killed the children here, you brought down those cities, those states? What is your defense doctrine against terrorism? Kill all the kids in one country? And we had it on our backs. He is a villain who says Serbia should join NATO, a villain towards Serbia and an innumerable number of states that could be attacked by NATO. Don't tell me, we'll treat people there in the composition of international forces. Well, you're an occupier, so if you're a doctor or a pop, you're an occupier, what are you gonna do there? Who called you? Is that a member of the United Nations? Does he have his order, does he have his sovereignty? Every time you think about it, you think about Serbia in '99. If you think about Serbia, you will never have a problem understanding who your friend is or who's not thinking well. What, Russia will forgive us for going to NATO? They'll defend us and protect us because we want to join NATO? Now that she has said that she will not wait for that NATO expansion to be extended to the edges of the Russian Federation. And the Department of Defense plays an anthem of Russian when his phone rings? You pissed these guys off for playing them the Russian anthem. The Russian anthem will also be played at the Ministry of Defense. We'll have more visits from Russia to the Department of Defense than you can possibly imagine. They will come every day to teach us and help us, as Belgrade played tonight, and all other Serbian cities played the Russian anthem. So, this division of yours as a person, I can't understand. You've got all your eyes on Russia. Russia is now a rescue, congratulating President Putin for his party's two-thirds victory in the election, and you're telling me about NATO. Do you really think that it can do both, that America loves that you work with Russia and that Russia worships what you're going to do in NATO? You're serious people, you're MPs, you're not children, and you need to explain it tomorrow on the street. It's easy for ministers to explain. What do they care what's true, but you have to, you meet normal people, the ministers hang out with each other, but you meet smart, normal, honest people, worried, scared and ask you what's next? And you say, "Let's go to NATO." Does NATO take Kosovo and Metohija from us? Where are you going? Are you trying to convince us that no matter how much Serbia will be if all its parts enter NATO and all its parts join the EU? When so, how come there is a limit between France and Germany? They're in the EU, they're in NATO, but they know exactly where their border is and they're jealous of everything they have. If you intend to join the alliances to lose everything we have, we will not let you enter those alliances. If it were that easy, you'd already come here to ratify some agreements. What you're eating, you're right, but we'd have to approve it here. And that deal with the National Guard of Ohio. It seems to me that the DSS owes an explanation -- would I vote to abolish the ratification of the NATO Agreement on the rapid passage of NATO troops through Serbia in case NATO troops need it? The law had to respond to several dilemmas regarding the new function of the Ministry of Defence, regarding the new function of the President of the Republic and on strengthening the function of the General Staff, in particular the Chief of Staff. You've really completely underestimated the man who's Chief of Staff, who he is. Maybe the current Chief of Staff likes to be kicked and bullied, so do his army. But no one serious, no one who understands military command, who passed the troops, is going to let the Secretary of Defense kick him. What is the thanks of the defence minister that he kicks the whole army of Serbia, that he decides how the Serbian Army will live? This is where he says he stops, orders. In the debate in particular, I will look back at the haystacks of everything I object to the bill. And that inspection from the Department of Defense. Can they impose a suspension, or can they propose to suspend some measures? They're not satisfied with some condition in the hull. It's the Department of Defense. It's not an operational part of the Serbian Army, so he doesn't like the way the guards are being held in some barracks. Can he order it or will he talk to someone, see why, does that have to be different, which rules apply, how many other sublegal documents, how many laws? You yourself listed here, of course, with the underestimation of the Assembly, what the Assembly should do. What do you care about in the law of the army and the defense of what the Assembly should do? The assembly is being issued by the Constitution of Serbia and the laws, a procedure for the adoption of laws. Not the military law to say - the assembly has to meet. The assembly doesn't have to do anything. The army of the sea, and the assembly doesn't have to. The congregation can, will, is ready, but it doesn't have to. When you understand the National Assembly, you will know what is civil, what is democratic control. You escaped here and the Military Security Agency. The military police are in the law, and there is no military-security agency. And we're going to have that agenda point -- the basis of the security service. What are the basics of the Security Service? I guess it needs the Security Service Act, not the basics. To what basis do we regulate security services, which state, which member state? Be aware of what VBA is. (President: Time.) ) Here is a poorly defined use of military police. A month or two ago, we had a chance to see, when the government was elected, how you used the military police to arrest on the street. Each object can be presented or advertised as a special protection facility. I'm sorry for the overstep. We will vote against the law on military and defence, but that is why we will form both the army and the country's defence as it suits Serbia at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12604	Thank you. The word is Ivica Dacic, in front of the SPS Parliament Club. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12605	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Nikolic, I am advocating a violation of Article 104(1). The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which finds that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Nikolic, you have the right to admire another country. You have the right to believe more in another country than in your own, but there is no parliament in the world in which it is possible without comment to announce that soldiers will serve the interests of some other country, not their own. In what assembly of the world, it is possible to threaten an army minister, who represents an army in parliament during discussions on system laws, by saying that very soon in the Ministry of Defence, an anthem of some other country will be listened to? Stop humiliating this country in the eyes of those whose name you're doing it. That's never what Russia asked of us. That's not what Moscow asked for, that's not what Washington asked for. We have the right to political differences. We can believe that the security future of this country is in integration, which will bring us into the region and that part of Europe to which we naturally belong. We can discuss the alternative when that alternative is offered, but we can't humiliate this country so much. Millions have disappeared in the foundations of Serbia, and today it is not a state. These millions were sacrificed most often in the name of politics, which had nothing to do with the interests of this country. Most seriously, we expect you to take this debate as a debate in which we have the least right to speak as MPs of one party or another who wants to rule the army. When we put on a uniform then you can't see our blue, red, yellow or any other color anymore. I ask that parliament declare itself in the day of voting on the insult that we, as representatives of the citizens, are exposed to. I don't want to listen to the Russian anthem and stand in front of it calmly, nor the anthem of any other country except the one I live in and whose name I do the work I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12606	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12607	I will be willing to engage in this debate with Mr Boris Tadic, and Cedomir Jovanovic will be held accountable by our other MPs, since he has not reached the level to discuss with me the future of the state. I love Russia as much as Serbia, my whole life, my family, my ancestors, it's all Russian and I can't hide it. I've never humiliated Serbia. We are now a member of the Union of Russia and Belarus, but you don't know anything about it, no congregation has ever annulled it. I told the minister you'd listen to this anthem. He'll come visit us every day for a high-ranking official from Russia and I haven't said anything further than that. I'm not on anyone's payroll, you can't charge me with any treason. If it's about treason, Mr. Jovanovic, your association with the Shiptars and the Americans is a complete betrayal, and don't hold my vocals and sermons here. Why am I saying you're not up to it? You may be up to talking to me, but as I learned from the DSS statement, you're susceptible to opiates, and I really don't have time to lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12608	There's a word from MP Ivica Dacic. Mr. Dacic, please. Have patience, you'll get a word after that, there's a Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Dacic, you got the word, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I took the floor after this exchange of Polishes and violations of the Rules of Procedure, because it's a little hard for me to talk about the subject on which I've come to say something on behalf of the SPS, but I'm still going to do this effort to overcome this shock that I just had, when I heard some things that I probably need someone else to answer for. In any case, since we have been exposed here more than once today to criticism that someone wants or does not want to support the proposals of some political parties, the SPS has no obligation to any other political party, not according to the LDP or any other party, to support its proposal. Because I've never seen them vote for a single SPS proposal. But it has nothing to do with the matter of defence and security. I would like to say on behalf of the SPS that we believe that the adoption of these laws is very important, but not because presidential elections could be called, but because it is necessary for Serbia to get these system laws. We also find it very important that Serbia gets what is defined as a basic strategic-doctrinary document in the area of defence as soon as possible, means that it gets a national security strategy, a defence strategy and a Serbian Army doctrine, and of course gets basic defence planning documents -- a long-term defence development plan, a strategic review of defence and a defence plan of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm saying because even in the ruling coalition, there are different opinions about all of this. I think the very approach to making these laws and polemics is whether or not they were burdened with presidential elections. One party within the ruling coalition said these laws cannot be passed until a national security strategy is adopted. On the other hand, the other party said it was done, but that it was not a necessary condition. It would be good for Serbia to get a national security strategy, it would be good if Serbia had a defence strategy, but I think it will be very difficult for the ruling coalition to have a unique relationship, related to assessing existing policies or political entities, or other states, or multinational organisations that can pose a threat to Serbia. So, because of DS and DSS attitudes, I think it will be very difficult to bring these strategic documents, because the attitude is currently very different both on NATO issues and on some others, which are important for national security. So it is good to discuss such laws separately from some of the topics that can lead us to a debate that simply doesn't end. First of all, I'd like to ask, suggest and ask the Secretary of Defense to draw attention to the statements he's been making these days. Because it is his job to protect security in Kosovo and Metohija, not to worry about the biological condition of any nation or the Serb people. I think it deserves the reaction of both the military and the Ministry of Defense, because that's the line we're communicating with at KIM. Serbs in KIM expect Caphora to protect them from Albanian separatists and terrorists, and they do not expect different statements, which may have this or that interpretation, to announce in advance that Serbs will either die or die at KIM. Such a statement is completely contradictory and counterproductive compared to everything Caphorus has said so far. After all, our army, headed by the Chief of Staff, has regular meetings with Caphora and exchange views, and I think that at some next meeting, it should be one of the things that needs to be sharpest against the new Caphora commander. Also, there are a few things that can be important and that are now not day-to-day-political. But you know there's been a lot of misunderstandings. That's what I asked at the defense and security committee's session. No one speaks or wants to come to war, but all situations must be predicted. There were a series of functional earthquakes in the war that was waged in 99, meaning in various operations that were in '98. and '99. the year, and these misunderstandings were the result -- not precisely defined military relations and the forces of the MUP, both in the area of military action and in the area of operational co-operation carried out in the areas of military action units. Also, a group of misunderstandings may occur if there are any inaccuracies in the normative regulation of relations in the strategic command system. This resulted in very frequent tensions in the earlier period and disagreements between the Supreme Defence Council, as the highest management and state-run body for military command, and the General Staff, as its staff and expert body for the preparation and use of the military in peace and war. In this regard, they lacked a proper legal and normative basis for establishing stable functional relations between the Ministry of Defence, on the one hand, as a resolute authority of the Government, and the General Staff, as a staff and expert body of the Supreme Command, that is, that body of the People's Defence which defines the commanding of forces that used to be called... What were their names? They were called in different ways. [[Laughter]] There are two separate systems. One system makes it clear that there is a system of security and a system of defence -- and that will always be a lack of protection. Of course, the defence system is considered and should be broader compared to the security system, but it is very important to establish one integrated system and all elements of that system are compatible, not to be opposed to their latent primate struggle, which was visible on the interpersonal plan, after all. It was even visible on the plan within the security sector itself between military and civilian services, not to mention military and police relations, or the interior ministry's forces. That's why I think it would be good to think about if a state was formed in the war, the possibility of a more efficient functioning in the war should be considered - that a war cabinet, not a military cabinet, should be formed at the institution of the President of the Republic. A war cabinet, not a military cabinet of clerks, means a war cabinet that would make up the highest state officials. Because under these conditions, government doesn't work. So, the prime minister, foreign minister, defence minister, interior minister, Parliament's president, or an ad hoc body that should make large strategic decisions in the war, the principle of social order, and not only the military and the forces of the MUP. I would remind you that Churchill, at the beginning of World War II, had just formed such a body that he could at any moment unite the efforts of the entire state in defense of German aggression. Of course, in order for the president to be commander-in-chief he must have two working and operating bodies, he must cover the entire civil defence complex and the protection of the security sector, but of course he must have the headquarters of the supreme command involved in planning and proposing military activities, etc. Of course, these are things that may not be so important at a time when Serbia has a peaceful state, but it is very important that the armed forces, namely that the defence system has a single and efficient management system, know exactly who is in charge and who is in whose power. In certain provisions of these two laws, you have that the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Minister of Defence are at the same time authorised to operate, or command the army. If the statement is not specified that the minister is in charge of Serbia's military, and that the Chief of Staff is in command and in charge of the military, then confusion may occur who is really in charge of the army, the minister or the Chief of Staff. When prescribing the powers of the defence minister, a syntagma - handling and commanding is used, and when it seems to be the Chief of Staff, the Syntagma - commanding and handling, etc. is used. The answer to this first question that I just asked should come from that. That is why the defence minister should also be empowered and obliged to prepare a proposal for a state defence plan, and the chief of staff to prepare a proposal for a military use plan. Those two powers should be given to them by these laws, and they don't have them. Of course, the responsibilities of the Ministry and the General Staff. There can be two approaches. It is the first in which the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence are two parallel institutions. The Ministry is a resolute government body, the General Staff is a staff and expert body of the Supreme Command. In that sense, the general staff is becoming the headquarters of the Supreme Command and is directly subject to the President of the Republic. The second solution is to regulate the relations between the General Staff and the ministry to make the General Staff an integral part of the Ministry of Defence. In this respect, the role of the General Staff in the strategic management system must be clearly and accurately specified. So, the General Staff and the Ministry's relationship. We think it would be good to think about really reintroducing something that used to be called armed forces, I'm talking about war, because we're going to have two systems, and during the war, the Ministry of the Interior is moving under military command, and there's still a term to be used. There were major problems inside the M.O.P. and the military during the last 99th. Generally, I think that the national security strategy, the defence strategy, but above all the political views of the political parties leading this country, should clearly announce a few issues that are important for this topic. First, does Serbia have enough strong and enough armed forces, or military, what are the plans, whether it will go to military professionalisation, or will the military be filled in from the professional composition, but also from the recruiting system? What will be the length of the military obligation? Of course, it will all depend on the conditions in which Serbia lives, but it will depend on the budget, and will depend on whether the defence minister has a budget of 2.4%, to make it ideal, whether military pensions will be within that budget or within Serbia's overall budget, etc. The Socialist Party of Serbia has otherwise submitted a number of amendments that define the position of military pensioners, as there will be a problem. We understand the gravity of the situation facing the Ministry of Defence, in the sense that military pensioners are now on the defence ministry's budget. But if they are transferred to receive a pension under the provisions of the Civil Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, there will be a significant problem for them. Also, I think we should find some solution here, some transition period, so there's no sudden drop in military pensions that are, I guess, still very low. But I would remind you that today's pensions in this civilian sector are 53% relative to the average wage and fall due to all these formulas that have been adopted, that this fall will continue and that it will eventually come from 30 to 40% of the average salary. It's completely understandable the fear of military pensioners, they, I suppose, have addressed you in all order, but also on the other hand is a great burden on the budget, and I don't know if you've paid any attention to that introspective exposure, but one significant part of this military budget of yours at all that's going to go away is separate for military pensions. And when you talk about money that's separate for the military or the defense system, or for the D.O.D.A. at all, you refuse and you start off with a minus that's simply separate for military pensions. Therefore, a solution should be found, which would be acceptable for us to prevent the difficult socio-economic situation of military pensioners. Also, multinational operations, military use outside Serbia's territory. I think it is clear that this law defines that the use of the army outside the territory of Serbia is a matter decided by parliament. I hope and I am sure that any government will not take on such a role as to direct anyone beyond the borders of this country without Parliament's decision. It is known that our country has repeatedly participated in United Nations peacekeeping missions, but, as you know, there are military operations in the world that are not only based on United Nations decisions, sometimes based on a system of collective security, such as NATO, it is sometimes on the principle of military action by a few other states. It is also important here to define this by certain international contracts also ratified by parliament. I think it is very important that decisions on the use of the army outside Serbia can only be made in the Serbian parliament. We have submitted more amendments, of course most of these amendments are of a professional nature and these are the things we have tried to separate from the day-to-day political matters here. At this point, it doesn't matter to us who the Defence Minister is, who the Chief of Staff is, the fundamental question is whether we should have the Ministry of Defence and whether we have the Army of Serbia and that's the most important issue. Are we going to reform the army to destroy the army or are we going to get to make it effective and train it for quick facts? Serbia faces a number of challenges, and I would therefore like to warn that all those who think Serbia does not need an army, that they do not think they are helping their country and their people. It is very important for our country to have a strong army, not to attack others, but to have what is written in the Constitution and in the Law of Defense, a system of deterrence, to defend our territory, to defend our people. So this topic that we're talking about is that sometimes, behind all the stories that can be heard in this area, it's not what's really important, it's just about the political facts and the political consequences of all of this. The most important thing is whether the army exists, whether it has the means to live. Is there a weapon he's using? We can't just count on Serbian heroism or patriotism. We need to see if there's material and technical equipment in the army, whether there's any good receipts of military personnel, who have to be such that someone has the motivation to do it professionally. When we get to that, we'll only be able to discuss it the right way. So, the SPS is interested in reforms in the defence system sector and in the adoption of system laws, but in such a way as to create an effective army, armed forces and such a defence system that will enable the defence of the country and our people. I'm just asking the Secretary of Defense, without the wrong idea or the wrong politicization of all this. I understand that Serbia is not in a position to threaten anyone, but that Serbia does not have to say in advance that it will not do anything about possible exodus in Kosovo and Metohija. God forbid, but it is possible that anything will happen, that after December 10th, we will be exposed to the situation that Kosovo and Metohija may be declared unilateral independence, that an exodus of Serbs, that attacks on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that Caphora will not be able or will not protect Serbs. (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. We must all ask ourselves how to react, wisely, resolutely, and of course how best to protect our people who live there. So I ask you, in statements that I once again say, have a mostly political sound, you act as the defence minister who runs the military and say that Serb military forces will intervene if Caphorus will not or cannot defend Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12610	Thank you. The word is Nenad Milic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12611	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 104 and 105, article 100, and I'm finally going to ask one question to the chair by article. 225 and 226. I would briefly quote the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - nation MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly; the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect; they are not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor are they to give facts and assessments regarding the private life of others. Article 105, item 1 - on the agenda of the National Assembly is the president of the Assembly. Mr. Dulic, I have a question for you, and I really don't want to offend you, but I'm interested in your attitude. If I tell you you're a junkie, did I insult you or not? I think it's an insult. I think you've been obliged to... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: It is a disease. ) Maybe if you're a junkie, Mr. Todorovic, it's not an insult to you, but it's your right and I really asked the President of Parliament if it's an insult to him. Since Mr. Nikolic... I'll wait, then I'll continue...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12612	Just finish it, and I'll give you an answer, and we'll get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12613	I'd like you to answer me first, so I'd like to continue. I can do this, given that you have not responded to the insult brought by the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in his statement, I do not think you find it an insult. I disagree with you. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, that this is both an insult and that you had to react and give MP Tomislav Nikolic a warning in accordance with your authority, as president of the National Assembly. Not that you didn't do it, you hurt Article 100, which says - to the MP who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. This is Article 100(1). After this presentation by Mr Nikolic, members of the LDP parliamentary group advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and you did not want to give a word to anyone, but to Mr Dacic. You've been throwing us away from the presidency all the time as Mr. Dacic spoke that only one of the parliamentary groups could advertise the Rules of Procedure and you wouldn't give us a word. Please explain to us what member you're doing and what this is really about. What is this, a congregation or some private society that works by Oliver Dulic's rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12614	Since she, of course, recorded all the cameras, we can get into an analysis of what Mr. Tomislav Nikolic said. He didn't say Cedomir Jovanovic was a junkie. If he said that, I'd give him a warning, because when someone is said to be a junkie, it's an insult. He didn't say that. Secondly, Cedomir Jovanovic did not answer the word. I gave my word to Hansel Dacic. Only after that did he raise the Rules of Procedure and would he get the word that he stayed in the O.R. when the previous speaker finished with it. That's how it's gonna be in the future. If you want to deliberately obstruct the work of this congregation, and this is your obvious intention, since I see five raised Rules of Procedure now, you have the right to defend yourself, you will get it every time. I said, okay, it was the course of the session, the Rules of Procedure define the course of the session. During that session, in your opinion, a breach of the Rules of Procedure occurred. You've been given the word to explain the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm giving you an explanation for that. The assembly can be declared in the voting day. If you're all going to report to the Rules of Procedure, then this session will look like it did in the morning. So you're going to exchange accusations with each other about things that aren't correct and which are essentially not for this pay phone. I'm just trying to get this debate into some sort of order here. Now I'm going to give you all my word in the Rules of Procedure and then you're going to have a nice conversation. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic first reported. (From O.R.: It's not true. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure. Whether I answered first or not, I really don't know, I suppose the chairman has a good insight. I came forward for what Mr. Milic said about whether he was a drug addict, if it was directed to someone, an insult or not. It is primarily a problem that everyone faces when they are in such a situation that someone in some way respects him. Here, I'm trying to get you around it, as far as possible, in a way, Mr. Milic, to say that it's about whoever you're talking to. I don't mind you telling me I'm a junkie a hundred times. Nenad Milic, from the post: I object. I don't mind. That's how you talk about yourself, not me. There should be at least some indications, at least some things that would be or support such an observation. As far as drug abuse is concerned, it's a disease of addiction. That's familiar. You, among other things, have done a certain job that is meant to be done, but to cure it, firstly, you need the desire of someone who is dependent on some opiates. Secondly, it also needs to be in the middle that will allow it, not to list all these conditions, I'm not exactly an expert on this matter. You are here in some way accusing Tomislav Nikolic for no reason. Tomislav Nikolic presented what is at the DS press conference by their spokesman, meaning, official... The DSS, I accept your objection, I apologize, I must tell you, you are all the same to me, no matter what your name is, you are all DOS to me and there is no problem at all. What Mr. Nikolic said, he just transferred what the DSS spokesman presented as an official DSS position, I suppose, based on the possibilities they have. It has been the ruling party since 2004. It's three years old. They have ministries that have the opportunity to give some information. Probably give it away. You are to examine how, in which way you can come on the basis of which Andreja Mladenovic made such a claim for Cedomir Jovanovic, but do not blame us or the debtors for calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12616	Nenad Milic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12617	I'll answer to Mr. Todorovic first. If you've listened to me very carefully, I haven't really spoken to you. I spoke to the president of the National Assembly. The party you're referring to was at the press conferences so much they had to admit they were lying in court. I'll remind you, dean mihaylov: "Zorana killed someone else, they know from his environment who killed him," etc., so the man had to go to court to say he was lying. That party lies terribly, but I don't want to talk about it. I want to answer to Mr. Dulic, because I am interested, as are you, Mr. Dulic, in what is the work of this House. You just said we'd go through the stenograms and see what was said, that no one said he was a junkie. Don't let us play kids. Mr. Nikolic said I could quote him, use opiates. If that doesn't mean he's a junkie, then you really, as a doctor, have a lot of problems. I don't know how from being told someone was using opiates, you didn't come to the conclusion that whoever said it was to insult someone and tell them he was a junkie. It's still an insult to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12618	Mr. Milic, opiate is one of the medical means that, for example, is used daily in anesthesia. Thousands of people receive opiates daily in Serbia, and they are used in anesthesia. In order not to enter the terminology debate, I understood what you said to me and I gave you the answer to that question, and the National Assembly will in the voting day declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12619	Mr. Dulic, when you're running a session like this, then obviously you're using opium. I don't have anything else to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12620	Thank you. Are any of the heads of Parliament answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: Vojvodina MPs, LDP, SPS and the SRS. The People's MP Radovan Radovanovic has the word, and let the MP Vesna Pesic be prepared. (There is no Radovan Radovanovic. You will be given a word by the Rules of Procedure when the debate begins. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12621	Create conditions for me to speak. Mr. President, you're taking care of the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12622	Here you go, Mr. Batic, you're getting a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12623	Mr. Dulic, I'm advertising an injury...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12624	Mr. Batic, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12625	So is this normal for you to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12626	Guys, let's calm down. You'll all get a word in the Rules of Procedure and we'll keep working. Is that right? Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12627	I'm gonna sit here right now, and I'm gonna make a noise while you guys talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12628	Mr. Batic, you've got the microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12629	I haven't even been able to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12630	Here you go, new time and now you're leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12631	Mr. Dulic, you're acting like the Assembly is your front, like you're giving someone something. You only need, in accordance with Rule 27, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You're not giving anyone anything. Don't, please, keep repeating the obstruction stories. If you were to take care of work and order in parliament and respect for the Rules of Procedure, there would be no such incidents and obstructions. You can't keep giving us something now, Mr. Dulic, so angry. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. The obstruction is when you travel with two bodyguards and three counselors in New York, you don't say a word and you're there when it's Thankssday, when no one works in America and when it's black friday, when no one works either, instead of sitting here. Then don't lecture us. Let me get back to the subject. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I don't know why he felt hit and hurt. As DHSS MP, I am kind of glad that Miroslav Miskovic united, at least around one item of the agenda or about his personality and his company, DS and SRS. That may be a good range of what is happening in this parliament and in Serbia. But even before these words, slander and insults that he made at the expense of the head of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic allowed himself, and he is the presidential candidate, to insult a large number of people or more people who have their names, titles, professions, biographys. He told the whole MP club that these people were nothing, that they never did anything and did nothing, which is, at the very least, an insult. There are five science doctors sitting at the MP's club, out of 11 members of the MPs' club. People have their biographies, their families, their names, their successes, and their failures. Let's not read other people's biographies. That won't get us anywhere. You know, the story about the legals, the water, the chickens, it leads to other times. I'm afraid we went astray, but you, Mr. Dulic, as president of the assembly, were obliged to prevent it from getting some normal flow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12632	Thank you. Here you are, MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12633	Mr. Dulic, you've done something that I didn't think would happen in my life, and that's to act like I've been acting like, literally kidnapping myself for a microphone and a payphone, so I can say what I mean. I'm deeply shaken by everything that's been going on here, and I've been deeply affected by the fact that you're an advantage. First of all, you didn't give us your word when we called in the Rules of Procedure that we were speaking, since the president of the SRS was the scariest, second time today, insulting the president of our party. You were silent about it and you said only one MP could speak. When we said we had the right to speak to the Rules of Procedure, you stayed silent and you, in fact, banned us from speaking, interpreting the Rules of Procedure the way you like it, probably because you think, if you sit there, you're allowed to do everything. We worked here today in a terrible atmosphere, in the atmosphere of the lynch. I'm the youngest LDP MP, and it's been really hard for me to listen to all of this, and I think I have the strongest nerve. Here, and the minister says I'm young and has time for me. Today we were called lice, kidnappers, drug addicts, traitors. And what were we able to see here today? Who's the traitor? So whoever wants to play him a Russian anthem at the Ministry of Defense. That's not how Serbia likes it. Serbia is loved by taking care of citizens' interests. As for you, Mr. Dulic, Serbia loves you by doing your job nicely, so take care of all MPs, no matter how hateful they may be to you, as much as you may be afraid of them, and I can see that you are afraid, because everything you showed here today points to great fear. You are giving priority to Mr. Todorovic who came forward after all of us, although we are at the most vulgar, I must say so, so it was possible that we were trying to draw attention to ourselves, and you are giving Mr. Todorovic the word. Why? That's how you confirmed what I said today. You are one big coalition, the Miroslav Miskovic coalition against all Serbian citizens. We have no problem being alone here, we have no problem being alone at all, because you are all together with Miskovic here, and we are alone, but with us are citizens of Serbia, who will punish you all for what you did here today. As far as the SRS is concerned, which is trying to spread through the media, this new soapy image of its own, so you are now like the European party, today you have shown, today your vice president of the party has shown what Serbia is. He was cutting himself off from this booth, and now I'm going to express myself as the Shumadins say, like a snake when it hits her tail. Why? Well, because he's scared. Because it became clear that you, like everyone else, had this Miskovic in your hands. That's what we're gonna fight for. I see I've provoked you, Mr. Nikolic. Please respond. I'm ashamed you're Kragujevčan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12634	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12635	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dulic, for who knows which time you've shown your character. You've shown that you're afraid of the SRS, you've shown that you don't respect the LDP and you've shown that you're afraid of the truth. Every time LDP MPs said that Miskovic was a thief, on the other hand he came -- you're murderers, you're kidnappers, you're lice. When we say - no Russian anthem... Please, you must have heard what the president of the SRS parliamentary group said, Mr. Dulic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12636	Mr. Marash, you have a problem, too. (Free Marash: No, you have a problem. Not with the opiates, you obviously have a problem, too, with education. You go out and you say that the problem is when someone is said to be a junkie, and you claim to be dating today and talking about a man, who I don't think is a thief, and you think that's acceptable. You just said -- today, LDP MPs have been saying all along that Miskovic is a thief, and you've been telling us that we're murderers. So there's obviously a problem here, in this House, using expressions, and that generates all the problems. Here you go. Finish it. Which part of the Rules of Procedure has been broken? Here, you get all the time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12637	Member of the Rules of Procedure 27 – President of the Assembly shall keep an eye on the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, Articles 100, 101, 102, 104. So, it's not the same thing when we're talking today, which is why the polling committee was rejected, when we point out and provide evidence of what we've been saying and what came to us on this right hand side of yours. Now you've heard what Mr. Nikolic said, but pretend you're deaf. We've been putting up with insults all day. Your assistant, or vice president of the assembly, Mr Albianić, heard that we were murderers, kidnappers and lices, and he didn't respond to it. You didn't react to that either. I'm very glad Mr. Todorovic just said what I was about to say, that Mr. Nikolic is saying what Mr. Kostunica wants and that he is his candidate. You just said that Mr. Nikolic simply quoted the DSS spokesman and repeated what this Mladenovic said at yesterday's press. You know why? Because just now Mr. Milic said that they are liars, because they lie at their press conferences, which was proven in court. I'll take the opportunity to learn something. So this is a court ruling for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, one of its parts, in which there is something that might make it a little bit clearer to you that what you were throwing out today, you said, first of all, your president of the parliamentary group, which is not true. So, one part of the verdict -- linking in its defence the president's co-workers with illegal drug trafficking, the defendant Ulemek tried to continue the campaign, which was led by the organisers of this criminal group through the means of public information before the murder, and in late 2002 and early 2003, with the intention of criminalising the Prime Minister and showing that the murder that eventually occurred was not a political act, that it was not an assassination, or political murder. So, take a little care, have a little respect, for the simple reason that you repeat what comes from the DSS and that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12638	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised that in addition to so many doctors of science in your MP group, famous and recognised lawyers, you're asking some questions to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. Everyone's answering for the word he said. You can claim to be a criminal, a drug addict, a liar, etc., but in that case you know which way. There's an institution that deals with it, protecting someone if they've offended someone, but if you tell a thief that he's a thief and he complains, but in a court of law, let's just say he was already responsible for stealing or something, he doesn't have the right to seek protection, or he's already a convicted thief. If you're saying he's a junkie, he can very easily prove whether or not he is. You know, it's not the first time when it comes to Cedomir Jovanovic, it's not the first time that such claims are made. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic had a very simple way and a way to resolve it, not now, but right after 2001 and before 2001 when these claims came from different sides. As far as this is concerned about the DSS, I couldn't agree more. They want to lie, but well, they politically need to answer for it. We're not going to defend either DSS or DS at all. I have to tell you, it's an insult to us when you say we're in a coalition with the DS. Please, how can you say such a thing? There is no greater insult to us. How can we be in a coalition with the DS, they are in favour of joining the NATO Pact, they are in favour of not defending Kosovo and Metohija, and we are in a coalition with them? How can you in any way accuse us of that? You accuse us just as you accused us at the time when Slobodan Milosevic was in power. For what? Because we were defending our country, our people, not because we were defending Slobodan Milosevic because at that moment he was doing everything in favor of our country and our people. We will do so today, if DS does what is useful for our country and our people, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Also, you're making trouble around the Russian anthem here. It's our biggest insult. Remember in 1999 and the entry of Russian soldiers into Pristina in Kosovo and Metohija, with what enthusiasm the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija welcomed Russian soldiers. Unfortunately, in that situation, the Russians failed to protect us, but now that the situation has changed, you are respecting the Russian anthem in any way. We like to listen to Russian anthem. We love that Vladimir Putin and his "Single Russia" won because we are sure, history proved it, when Russia is strong – Serbia is recovering and it is becoming strong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12640	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, please continue your work now, you said everything you had. The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12641	Mr. President, I really must blame you for allowing that, when a debate on important laws is opened, not to bother and to talk about some problem here, members of the law and matters of defence, the military, but rather to allow it to talk about personalities and insults. Especially surprising is it to respect whether someone is small or large, if they stand for this pay phone. I think that we are representatives of citizens and that every citizen of ours, we are only here for them, can also as an individual ask questions. It's not about "Delta," whether it's about NATO, whether it's about the defense, I really don't see what kind of manners it is here to keep someone's mouth shut, because it's a small party, then citizens should never speak a single word at all, because he's some individual who's irrelevant there. I'm asking you to focus on your problems, not to be offended and to take care of them. You just tried to avoid it, but it was absurd. Indeed, if we were to move on, then we could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and the big questions remain really unresolved. I would really like to engage in a debate about these two laws, the law on defence and the law on the Serbian Army. I would like, first of all, to ask Mr. Sutanovac, Minister, a really one question that has already been asked here, which is a certain contradiction and uncertainty that citizens are feeling at this point. I remember that once it was claimed by the former government that Serbia was not in the wars, that JUL was propagating peace, etc., flowers and birds, and that we went from one war to another. Even now, it is really contradictory to announce the current President of the Republic of Boris Tadic's campaign, that it will be a peace policy, and it would really be so, but it really is in doubt if the citizens are given military schedules at the same time, because then tell them what it is, so that the citizens know it, because we have already experienced this contradictory policy to talk about peace and to prepare for war. So that contradiction really creates one disturbance and it would be good to clarify at that time what it is, because it has already been set up by certain parliamentary groups. The next question that I think is very important, I think it would be very good in the defence law if it were mentioned that the defence strategy should plan for Serbia to become a NATO member. This is a key and fate issue for us, because as we can see today, Serbia is divided on this particular issue, where, after two centuries of some Serbian state and the existence of Serbia, where Serbia is today. Whether it will go into the Asian alliance, with one dictator and authoritative regime of Vladimir Putin, or it will go democratically and Europeanly, because if it is not clear, if it is not clear that it is through this it is going strategically through NATO reference. Now I am also saying on the defensive side that it is really very embarrassing for our country, when it comes to defence, that you do not know that we are surrounded by NATO countries and you do not know that Serbia is a place in NATO, so I would like you to explicitly answer that question, where Serbia is in the concept of our strategic defence. I'm not saying you don't know, I'm sorry, maybe I didn't say it right, but I'm saying it's a really clear question here. Maybe that's not your problem, but it turns out to be a problem. So I would like to hear the official opinion of the government, whether Serbia is a place in NATO or Serbia is not a place in NATO, because I think it really is part of our defence and is really part of that, application and when it comes to the Army of the Republic of Serbia, because it is very important that we know what the concept is, where it will be Serbia, because this alliance truly guarantees some security and, of course, the possibility of defence if it comes. It has been shown so far, and historically, that what has been mentioned here is that the worst thing we could do for Kosovo's defence is that Serbia is sticking to Russia. Here we have heard, it has been seen that the whole of Europe has opposed this powerful man, who wants again on the Kosovo issue and on the basis of energy to return the cold war to Europe and to divide the world along these lines. Should Serbia be classified behind the authoritarian regime, where there is no free choice, so when it comes to Miskovic and Delta, I must say that Putin has created a system where tycoons are ministers. If we're going to look up to the KGB regime and that Serbia is going into the Asian alliance, I really think that some MPs have declared the century in which we live today. These concept issues when it comes to Serbia's future and its defence, should indeed be cleared up here, so it seems to me that some people here do not care as much about Kosovo as it is important for us to join the alliance with Russia. Since we are most likely, because of this particular dependence on Russia, and lose Kosovo, it is more important for them that we be in league with Russia than for Kosovo to survive. And whether someone's family loves Russia, and someone's family loves America, and someone's family loves England, and someone's family loves France, I have to say it's not worthy of Serbian politicians. I guess someone has a family that loves Serbia, not that we define ourselves here whose family loves Russia, mine loves Russia, and yours loves America. It's not a serious debate at all. I must draw attention to the fact that this is not how Serbia's national and state interests can be debated, who loves what great force Serbia will submit to. Someone thinks betrayal is an American anthem, and I think treason and Russian anthem. Are we going to have to repeat the 48th when we had to tell the thugs no? Are we going to have to repeat that historical part too? In the end, I'd look back at two members. That's Article 11, I'm speaking specifically when it comes to the defense law, if you could pay attention to the article. 11 and 90, it is attributed to the defence as the responsibility of the President of the Republic and the defence is not in its jurisdiction. In both of these members, a particular mistake is likely to be stolen, but it should be corrected, because the president is not in charge of defence under the constitution. Also, the military law, in Article 17, I would like you to see that when it comes to military command powers that the President of the Republic lacks control and reporting, who, when and how the President of the Republic reports on the course and results of his command. That'd be good. In the second part, when it comes to military police, it would be very good if it were regulated by a special law, it would not undermine arbitraryness, because the military police have the same powers as the police, thus providing room for sublegal and discretionary rights. Also, when it comes to disciplinary responsibility, it would be good to pass a special law. Also, there are some contradictions where you call civilian faces, so you turn them into military, look at that member, it's really probably a mistake. Please take another look at these things I pointed to. But I really think I'd like to do it again, if someone continues to push Serbia towards Asia and the East, and who doesn't know what century Serbia lives in and where it is today, it's really terrible and tragic for today's Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12642	Thank you. The word is first made by Minister Sutanovac, followed by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12643	Mrs. Pesic, the honourable MPs, I want to answer you, given the specific issues that concerned the military schedules so far, have been asked by people who knew how it was done. I believe that political manipulation has been attempted, especially in the part of the ethnic minority, which would like to have a party available from month to month in that minority to lose popularity. The division of war schedules is one perfectly legitimate thing that is being held in all countries, and in NATO countries, which you say you are pursuing, and myself personally, don't have any dilemma, but the question that is now being imposed is why this is happening all of a sudden. I can accept that there is one fault of the ministry because we did not inform all parts of Serbia in due time that we would begin to share calls. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the media's information did not arrive for that part of Vojvodina in time, but it is a system-based matter on the territory of Serbia as a whole. Believe me, we haven't had a problem anywhere, except for now, where there's no problem, where in one fictional way, and through the media that's not in Serbian, it's getting even the Serbian Army is mobilizing. Of course we're following that information, and that's not true. Another thing about NATO, absolutely one false dilemma at the moment and unnecessary, means that the issue is being raised in the situation in which it is being decided these days, I would have understanding, but it is not being decided these days, neither you nor I will decide in the referendum. I'll remind you that the Prime Minister, with military neutrality, has said that we will seek our rights and obligations through the Partnership for Peace. It is a project involving almost all countries in the northern hemisphere, including, say, one Austria or Sweden, which did not consider their full participation in the Partnership for Peace measure to their security. So that dilemma absolutely doesn't stand at this point by members of the ministry, even less dilemma about whether ours, if you've talked about the Ministry, I have to say that I'm not sure whether the Ministry is moving in the direction of Russia or America, we're moving in the direction of standards that we consider best in the world, and friendship we want to build from Russia to America, and believe me and beyond. I think we may be the diplomatically strongest bridge of Serbia with all three centripetal points in the world right now, and that's Brussels, both Moscow and Washington. If you truly want to support the efforts of new management, that we are going towards a standard that is NATO standard, then I expect that the statements of your coalition members are not going in the direction of reducing the military budget, because these days they have also appeared in the media signs that were given by people who belong to your coalition, you simply cannot reduce the budget and ask that you go towards NATO because there are some standards, and below these standards you are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12644	Thank you. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12645	I have volunteered to respond to Mrs. Pesic, however, Mr. President, and I am giving you a serious remark. The way you run the session is not good. This is where Mrs Pesic rudely and directly insulted the Russian Federation. She said it was a state where there was no free choice. You didn't react, and those free elections were held yesterday. You can't just appreciate the results of the election whether they were free and democratic, but at the course of the process, by how elections were called, how candidates were left with the opportunity to present themselves in the media and how citizens were left free to vote in accordance with their will. So I find this a great insult, the truth of a mercenary MP, so I'm not that familiar with it, you're famous for it, Mrs. Pesic. I just found out you didn't tell the bully in 48. I congratulate you, if you really were old enough to say no. Otherwise, Mrs. Pesic, then the communists of Yugoslavia had a conflict with the Soviet Union's communists. It wasn't a fight between Serbs and Russians at all, it was a communist fight. You know there are no Serbs or Russians. If you once belonged to that mile, you know very well what they taught you. So, you can insult me, even my family see that you insult me here, all that's allowed, I'm not angry. My family loves Russians, maybe your family loves Mexicans, for example, or at least you loved a Mexican for a time. He was in line with your age. It was time for you to finally fall in love once.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12646	Mr. Nikolic, let's not touch that private part.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12647	It's all right, Mr. President, but the insult was given to the president of Russia, Putin. You didn't react. If Bush had been mentioned by accident, I'm convinced that the Secretary of Defense, who I hear here is also for NATO. Open, the defence minister, as management of a new army, says he is for NATO. Now, where are you Kostunicas, there's not one in the O.R.? You're never there when there's a battle, but you come back later to be dead to take over. So, Minister, it's not right for you to plead here according to your political beliefs. It's not okay, you're the secretary of defense, you're not the vice president of the DS, you're the minister of defense. If the defence minister says it is for NATO, it means he will direct the army towards NATO alone. Who authorized me, Mr. Minister? What National Assembly and what citizens of Serbia in the referendum? You have no right to lead an army towards neither NATO nor Russia nor anyone, because you don't decide where the army will go, you just carry out. This is where you decide, if you forget it, not in your head, or in your president's head. So when you attack me to love listening to the Russian anthem, then the question of your responsibility arises. And if you had feelings of responsibility, we'd either get an apology here or the Assembly would initiate a procedure for your resolution. In this assembly, the defence minister, who makes his own views, his principles, his principles, without respecting the Constitution and the rules, can one day order things from the military. That's all I fear is that the army has fallen into the hands of those who can't think at all, so that after that thought, they can command.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12648	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12649	I must say that I absolutely agree with the representatives of the opposition who criticise your position that in the Serbian Army anyone's anthem, he can only play if he is a guest of our ministry. Mr. Tomislav, I'm sorry to have to tell you, but your candidate in Russia has lost. If I remember correctly, you were here to host a candidate who now won 10% of the votes, his name is Žirinski, and he was your partner. He was your candidate. I understand that you have a desire to show that the candidates who win are yours, but don't distance yourself from what you were and what you were. You are even then and now Žirinski, only with perhaps a nicer or more expensive suit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12650	I'm taking a 15-minute break, and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the first floor. [[After break – 17.25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is first received by MP Zoran Krasic, then the right to the replica is Vesna Pesic, and then Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12652	Mr Dulic, I appreciate that you are very liberally applying the Rules of Procedure and allowing certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be widely interpreted, thus giving some the opportunity to express their political views. However, there is also some overstepping as far as it can go, as long as it makes sense, it tastes something. I came forward for the simple reason that some MPs from this small party who screams a lot of me were placed in some coalition with DS, DSS and G 17 plus. I went out to say that I had nothing to do with that gang, absolutely nothing. I don't get into the taste of what he's hooked up to, what he's using, etc. That's their problem. I know there are effective means to combat it. Six months close, three times a crisis in 19 days, and then he's cured, unless there's a touch point with what's provoking it. If someone thinks that his political attitude is exclusive and dominant, and that those who do not fit that view deserve some rebuke, that is, a political attitude, and it can be expressed, but there must be some measure, because if no measure is found, then I have to answer because I am offended. To put me in context with Tadic, with Sutanovac, with Bosca Ristic, with those from the DSS, you know what, we call them for selling the state, for dispersing the state, in this debate we attack for breaking up the army, which has started synchronised since 2001 to destroy it and now comes out an irresponsible man and says - this side is in coalition with this one here. Based on what? Based on the fact that someone was unhappy with one vote. Why would someone make me vote in a way to play the sacred Sava who needs to reconcile the left side? It's of interest to us that you guys get out as much as possible, so that the citizens can see what you're like. The argument is personal nature, who is closer to the sources of resources and who is closer to something that manifests as power. The political doctrine is the same, it is DOS, it is the one that destroys the Republic of Serbia, and then in that free mind interpretation of everything and everything goes so far, so it goes on something that tastes, I don't like Russian songs, I love American songs, I don't like this, I love that. When it comes to taste, it is another place for taste, not the National Assembly. It needs to be seriously discussed here, seriously criticized, but that criticism must have some degree, because if you continue to put everything in the same basket, I'll report back to the Rules of Procedure, and then I'll make some argument. Of course, I'm still taking care of my party's renomination and my personal reputation, so I'm always trying to tell the truth. Keep an eye on it, the truth is usually painful, and it's painful because it's only true in one place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12653	The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12654	I would just like to tell Mr. Sutanovac first that there is one amendment, not about the coalition, but about the LDP, where attention is drawn that 200% of the funds for the VBA have been increased in the budget. There's a proposal to redistribute it, not for the military's total budget, just to be clear, I asked around, and now I've been looking for that information, it's VBA. Mr. Nikolic called me a mercenary again. If someone said -- Serbian citizens, any nationality -- I happen to be Serbian -- that it's normal for Serbia to be in the EU, I couldn't think of it if someone hadn't paid me. That's impossible. So our citizen and I can't think of anything, but if I get out here, somebody's got to pay me. I'm sorry that Serbia is supposed to join one of those authoritarian states, but I believe that stupidity is something that someone really has to pay. What's normal is I think you can also do volunteer work. It's a demonstration of what you're doing, and then I can go on and on, so let's say that if we're going to talk like that in the Serbian Parliament, we're going to tell anyone he's a junkie, then you're being told that you're a murderer, which is stupid. To use what someone said about you? What would I look like if I used that? I mean, I'd be ashamed, Mr. Nikolic, to use all kinds of stories that are told at the pay phone. Please don't do this with any MPs in the future, because first we have these tabloids, there's a lot of talk about people, for one reason or another. Therefore, such arguments are used, indeed not right. I'm asking you to stop making personal insults, because it's completely pointless that when I think of something, there must be some dollars going on somewhere. And to be serious about the final thing, it really doesn't matter if anyone loves Mexico, whether they love America, Russia, whose anthem they love. But when it comes to Serbia and our state and national interests, I don't know why someone in Kosovo in Serbia is looking forward to the arrival of foreign troops, because we know how to lose territory: by marching any military troops, so Kosovo is lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12655	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, and then by representative of the LDP, because it was agreed at a meeting of the heads of parliament that on your behalf one would speak, and then we should continue to work. Please respect that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12656	I didn't put Mrs. Pesic in those who, besides money, have no other reason to say what they say just like that. The whole world is thrilled to see the balance of power being created, which is no longer just a single world superpower or is still just one, but it's facing a whole block at a dizzy rate. It's not just the Russian Federation, there's China, there's India, there's Latin America with the exception of two or three states. The Arab world has much to say about the U.S. domination. So when it is obvious that there is a balance of power in the world, Mrs Pesic here says: you are looking forward to a new cold war. No, we're looking forward to America bombing anyone he wants. You have never objected to it, Mrs. Pesic, and you are opposed to what will be a balance, let's call it a balance of fear - but I am convinced that such mindless bombings will not be. I'm really breaking up the controversy with you on that basis. Yeah, I think everyone's made their point. I've known your attitude for years, you know the attitude of the SRS-- neither can I make sense of you, nor can you change us. So that's where we stay in the positions we're in. I must tell Mr. Minister that I am pleased with all four groups that have entered the Russian Parliament in Dum. So, I don't favor at all, I know very well, I meet with these people, with their deputies, that of all these groups no evil threatens us and that it will do us all good. We do not inherit the victory of Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. After all, he is the president of Russia, which he has to address, to take into account which party he has here or not. But I expect today the president of Serbia, your president, and he sends his congratulations to Vladimir Putin. I'm not going to criticize that at all, and I'm not going to say... are you congratulating the Russian, and you want to join NATO? No, I'm glad Serbian officials congratulate Russia's democratically elected president, indeed democratically elected. I repeat, and in the event of the victory of Zjuganov, both Žirinovski and the fourth former coalition party, the United Russia, nothing evil, nothing bad, would happen to Serbia. So please, when you talk about state policy, think carefully. By favouring NATO alone, which you do here indiscriminately, you favor the world's executioner, which many of the world's countries are not satisfied with. We, by favouring Russia, favor, apologize, the other side of the Terrace, at least some balance that must exist in the world. It is not Russia's fault or duty that the prices of energy and raw materials are so high. America did it. America lifts Russia from day to day, from hour to hour, and if Russia makes good use of it, and strengthens itself and its friends in the world, and buys everything in the world that it can, while creating this extraprofit of energy and raw materials, we will certainly be fine. If, by the time this government's shift, by the time the new one's elected, you can drag Russia here, to be the centres from which energy and raw materials start all over Western Europe, we belong to Western Europe, but I'm not saying we don't belong to Eastern Europe at all. You're here to cut the cuts. What civilization are we, where did we come from, from the Times Square? (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. ) Has anyone read where the Serbs settled in the Balkans? So I'm not saying that there's some big mistake with you, which you say is that you're Western Europeans, you don't know history, and it doesn't matter. I'm just saying it's a mistake to say that our primary goal is NATO. I would even say so, but I would respect the wish of the National Assembly if the National Assembly voted in such a way most of the total number of MPs. You wouldn't hear me criticise it when state officials bring it up. I just asked state officials not to speak out of this booth any more of their personal opinions, if they're in their hands-- the military, the police, the foreign affairs, the vital functions of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12657	Thank you. On behalf of the LDP group, there is a People's MP, Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12658	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, all of this that happened back an hour, an hour and a half, Mr. Dulic, was primarily caused by your inaction, or by the inaction of then-chaired Mr. Albianic, Vice-President of the Assembly, and by your inaction to the insults sent to the LDP Parliament Club, or to our president. The reason we reacted is because you were silent. The reason why we felt pretty threatened, when these offices and slanders were brought out, is because all of this reminds us of the period 2002 and the beginning of 2003. I'll take the opportunity to read one more piece of the verdict. I know that certain MPs who have made the most of the insults know this information, but I would first of all read the part of the verdict that was handed down to the murderers of the late Prime Minister Djindjic. That part of the verdict says -- it states that Dusan Spasojevic had previously had a plan to kill another official of the government of the Republic of Serbia or DOS. Spasojevic's plan was to kill the head of the DOS parliamentary club, Cedomir Jovanovic. It can be concluded that on Dusan Spasojevic's side there is a motive for the execution of the assassination - revenge for his detention, as well as for the detention of members of his criminal organisation, the Simovic brothers, Vladimir Milisavljevic and Milet Lukovic-Kuma, and for the kidnapping of Miroslav Miskovic and the desire to continue to commit criminal acts of organised crime. So also Mr. Miskovic, who wrote that scenic letter and passed it through his media, and those who tried to quote it know who was really behind that kidnapping. That was the only reason why we tried in a perfectly correct way, when you didn't want to protect this assembly and its dignity and our president of the Parliament Club, to act. So we will no longer answer on this subject, or we will no longer enter the dialogue. We will continue to participate in the debate, as we have so far participated. What you just drew attention to, I just need this detail, Mr. Dullich, to say. You're talking about some obstruction, back to work. See how many speakers are on this issue from the ruling majority - none? That's how it's regular when it comes to laws. So, Mr. Dulic, LDP MPs participate every time and on every subject, unlike members of the ruling majority, especially from your party, there is none on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12659	Thank you. I'm sorry if I caused a series of these replicas. Please, let's really get back to the agenda now. The People's MP Verica Radeta also called, then Rajko Baralic, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12660	Mr. Dulic, an hour ago, you brutally violated the Rules of Procedure, article 104, in connection with article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when you allowed this gentleman here, who unfortunately is Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in a nation known as the brother-in-law of Miroslav Ilic, to make a scandal from this place. Mr. Sutanovac, don't smile and don't obnoxiously throw away what my joke is, whether it's beautiful or not - it's really inappropriate for you from that place to tell the MP. You're nothing but beautiful, like you're not pretty yourself. But it is that you have committed a scandal here and violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Dulic, is it acceptable to ask us to respect the Rules of Procedure, and allow this man to behave so inappropriately and inappropriately in this place? Are you running this session or not? So Mr. Sutanovac put his position here, and here he spoke as minister, that he advocated Serbia's entry into NATO. Mr. Sutanovac, you have no right to this place. You said yourself later that it would be decided by the people. You were able to state your position yesterday, at that party meeting of yours, along with Boris Tadic, who also said yesterday that he would advocate Serbia's entry into NATO, which he also said yesterday, otherwise shares Serbia, that because of Kosovo's eventual recognition, life in Serbia will not stop, that you will continue to advocate the EU, even though 20 of the EU's 27 countries recognise KIM. Talk about it at your party meetings, talk about it at pre-election meetings that will probably stick to it soon, let the citizens hear it, but from this place you have no right. You could have, say, chatted with Boris Tadic when you were wearing those plasma televisions you got from Mike Brasnevic, and then you got the name "Suki Plasma", or nickname, then you could chat with the big plasma TVs and about NATO, and about the European Union and whatever. From here on out, we won't let you do that. Mr. Dulic, whenever you don't distract the Minister that he can speak from here... (President: Finish. Here, you're even shutting down, you're not letting me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12661	You've got 30 seconds left. I accidentally shut you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12662	I'm just warning you, whenever you don't warn Minister Sutanovac that he has to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you'll have 50 hands raised with the Rules of Procedure and so many MPs to talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12663	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, and let the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, be prepared, and then the MP of the people Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12664	Mr. Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sutanovac, today is December 3rd. On today's 44th year, a unit of the 14th Partizan Corps, the 27th and 28th divisions of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, freed Cačak from the Germans. One of these liberators was my father Budimir. Congratulations to the Chacans, to those who still celebrate this date. I want to say that there is a group of people who represent themselves as the Serbian Renewal Movement, which these days launched an initiative to raise a monument there to the missing Germans in that battle. I don't want to comment, I use valuable time for other topics that are very important. Our army has been translated with so-called. Corpus system to someone else. To remind you once again, there are no first, second and third armies anymore, there are no Kragujevacian, no pleasure Corps, there is no Drina Division, there is no Visegrad to Gornji Milanovac, there are 15 empty barracks. We'll see how that thing ends. There is no more commander of the company, who commanded during NATO aggression, which today is in active service, as far as I know, except for General Cirkovic, all the generals and other officers of that or lower rank have long retired. So it's today in Serbia like that. These are the officers who provided that during what was called the "Blessed White Angel" NATO campaign, to protect 98% of military equipment and weapons, not to allow these people to come down from the air. Their mistake is that they were ready and able to defend the country, with small technical means and with great will and determination, because the one who defends himself is always right, no matter how big the one who attacks is. Today's laws should provide, above all, the rights that we gave to the President of the Republic in today's Law on the President of the Republic to legitimately command the army. You used to be threatened when some other president had those powers, but that's now a matter of distance analysis. There are no key strategic documents related to this area. Some of the MPs spoke on behalf of our MP club, Mr. Ivica Dacic, president of our parliamentary club, would be perfectly normal to adopt strategic documents first, and then appropriate legislation. This way, the strategic documents will be adapted to the laws passed, which is not good. We've written 30 amendments to the Army Act. To defend only a few because it's almost impossible to write amendments on defense. It's a question of doctrine, a matter of concept, what you want with the defence of a country, what its basic assumptions are, and how you want to do it, so that the amendment practically cannot be intervened in this area. As for the amendments we have submitted to the military law, there are from several different areas, and those concerning the pensions of former members of the Yugoslav Army, and those concerning the material and financial position of those who are working here now, and ways of establishing work relations and definitions of various other issues. The law says, someone here has already spoken, I'm surprised that the fighters and women fighting for gender equality have not responded, 11 members mention termological terms that correspond only to the male race, and I can say that the Serbian army has women now. Let's just say, Major or Lieutenant Colonel Svetlana Jankov of Chačka is the head of some kind of traffic service or I don't know exactly what she's in charge of, if she's in charge at all, maybe just running it, I don't know exactly. So you're not taking care of it or sending a message that there won't be a woman in the army. I don't know how you imagined that thing. Anyway, it's not really a problem. The fundamental problem for us is that these laws don't provide what it is to our understanding of the military and defense, but we'll talk about it when they're amended, about each one. I don't know what our appropriate advice will say yet and whether or not we can vote for these laws, depending on the amendments we've offered, but in any case we expected the defence laws and the military to be different, but there will be opportunities to discuss it and this is a matter of concept. We'll criticise that concept, you'll support it, I guess, we'll be conflicting on those issues and in the time that comes. I wish we were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12665	The word has been given by the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, and let the People's MP Vladan Batic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12666	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, military and defence laws are coming at a time when the presidential election is expected to be called, but more in one situation when Minister Sutanovac himself and outgoing President Boris Tadic, in a euphoric mood, spreads a story and the idea that Serbia should enter Euro-Atlantic integration. This was a unique opportunity, following the adoption of the new Constitution last year, to define the defence system in the manner in which the Constitution defines the law on defence in a precise way. In eight members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the defence is mentioned, but it is not enough to satisfy the direction and strategy to which the defence system and the military system in our country should go. Which is why this law is bad, and why the SRS parliamentary group has submitted numerous amendments to the fact that the members of the law themselves are not until the end specified, constitutional and legal basis. And the basic reason, Mr. Sutanovac, for which we cannot vote is because of what is your DS's position, which does not want two-thirds of Serbia's citizens at least, which is entering the NATO Pact, and because there are no military doctrinal documents under which this law should be written. The National Security Strategy, I suppose you've been able to get to know yourself for this time since you're a minister, has every country in the world. As for these friends of yours, with whom you eat snakes and lizards from the United States, you can almost find their own national defence strategy on every site. Not to mention other countries and this banana Slovenian republic, which with the territorials of Janez Jansa killed Serbian soldiers, and the other day in Brussels, in the NATO Pact, one of their liaison officers, or what's called, praised how, for God's sake, Slovenians now have 8,000 professionalized soldiers. We must now face and bring a serious story, and you must give us concrete answers in these days in which we will conduct the debate, where we are now, how you found the army and how they prepared you to serve as defence minister. Your references are not good. You're trained at the Marshall Center and NATO Schools. Given that I had the opportunity last week, as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, together with Dr Cvetanovic of the SRS and Mr Vukovic, the delegation was headed by the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, Mr Ivica Dacic, to go to that bed, the NATO-based Pact, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Shape, we saw what a system of training and training, as they say, for the different restructuring of the Serb army and for Serbia's preparation for joining NATO. What you do not need to say, and you have repeatedly repeated today in a certain way, although a little indiscriminately, we have openly said as representatives of this Parliament. So, according to that folk, pop pop, beans, villains all in the face, the way it is. They gave us a brochure that clearly shows how they see Serbia and how they treat us. We are treated not as an equal partner, which is based on this agreement, which is called the Partnership for Peace, because their intensity is to completely destroy the Serbian army, that it is professionalised to the number, of course, as long as it suits them, and their geostrategic goal is not these surrounding countries that are waiting for a NATO pact, but rather Serbia because of Kosovo and Metohija. They've never experienced that, and they've admitted it themselves, the commanders of NATO's forces at the Shape Base, have someone stand up to them like we did with very awkward questions. We have seriously prepared ourselves for this visit, and unlike you who are singing to them, who are ready for lunch with these villains to say that tomorrow we will enter the NATO Pact, we have told them sharply and specifically what the Serbian army is, and at one more ironic remark from one of the advocates of the idea of Serbia entering the NATO Pact, that our officers and our army and Serbian generals should pass NATO training and training, we have said that we have Serbian officers and generals. Unfortunately, many of them are now on the justice of God in the anti-Serbian Hague case. I took the opportunity to apologize, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that the famous Serbian general, who fought against them for 78 days, Mr Bozidar Delic, could not attend those meetings and bring more concrete information to them. That's why we were of these same famous generals and officers well prepared, not as you are briefinged by the NATOers, but by how our Serb army briefings us, to go and represent Serbia's interests. The interest of Serbia is that it has a stable army and that it has military potential which, at any moment, will protect the constitutional order of Serbia, that the military is responding to the work that comes from the Constitution and Serbia's interest is that the Serbian Army is acting within those frameworks as required by those commanding the military. It's amazing how far you've gone. You know that Tomislav Nikolic will be elected president of Serbia after the next elections. I don't know how long you'll make it to the campaign for this failed candidate, Boris Tadic. It's a waste of your time, since you're not running anything fast anyway. Save time, just so you know that Tomislav Nikolic will only be entitled to benefit from the Constitution. In accordance with Article 112. The Constitution, only the President of the Republic can command the army. There is no situation, Mr. Sutanovac, as you have proposed by law, that he transfer it at any time, or such an obligation shall be made by the Minister of Defense. On the other hand, it's amazing how far you've gone in that self-government, or do you think you're still humiliating the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it's time to decide on the country's vital interests, because in law, you said that another law would regulate how Serbia would act, or the Serbian Army beyond its borders. They pointed out our demands that they do not have enough doctors, and this was spoken by a respected colleague Mr. Ivica Dacic, the president of our delegation, and he said, Serbia, thank God, has a fantastic medical staff, from young doctors, through doctors of science and doctors who are specialists and trained to act everywhere and at all times, but we do not give. Neither Serbian doctors nor Serbian soldiers will go on your military missions. Because we need an alliance with those who will not kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. I don't really know, Mr. Sutanovac, where you meet them, what conversations you have and what you promise them. We asked them specific questions. At the moment when the senior adviser, who writes to NATO's Secretary-General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, spoke to us, is a German gentleman, and Mr Dacic knows his name and last name, it was irrelevant to me, it was only important that he who officially declares the political views of the NATO Pact, to our question whether NATO will support the Cypriot separatism, or their demands for independence of Kosovo and Metohija, they said, so that is a political issue and we do not interfere. On my counter, why did the secretary general before Boris Tadic, when Tadic kept silent and silent, said in Belgrade on July 13th that Kosovo and Metohija would be independent, a series of such talks continued, in which those who are your friends, who are briefing you, said they were at the point that Kosovo and Metohija were lost for Serbia. So the question arises, and how do you expect them and what you are talking to them and KFOR representatives these days, ahead of December 10th. They know what's going on out there. They know that our state and our Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense have operational knowledge of the weapons, because they know exactly what it's called, both short and original in English, terrorist so-called. The ANA Army. They didn't tell us what they were gonna do. They said, you know, what happened on the nights between 17 and 19 March 2004 was our fault. Just to remind you, because of this mistake, we no longer have Serbian sanctity in Kosovo and Metohija, that the people had to avoid the place where they lived, the village, or the village of Svinjara, five kilometers from Kosovo Mitrovica no longer returned after the night of March 17th and 19th, as well as to the second place where the pogrom was carried out, by who knows which time, the Serbian people. On the other hand, Mr. Sutanovac, the question arises, who did it before you – you are the successor of the Dosovo overall regime and Boris Tadic, who has been your party partner since the beginning of this business of destroying the Serbian army – the assessment of what should look like and what will the Serbian army look like in 2015 and what, at this point, we have? I came up with this data that's absolutely accurate and exact, and later I'm going to ask you what this Jovicic guy is doing here, he's a failed piece of Covic. I don't know what's wrong with you from the DS, only those Coovic tails you drag behind you, who robbed and kidnapped at the Coordination Centre. The last time I questioned him was where the money for the medical center and the health care home in Kosovo and Metohija, which Covic stole, he probably took part in. Now you've brought him in and you've already indicated to us that he's the one who advises you. If they advise you, then you have no idea who you have neither about the army nor about the defense. We've been better informed. You have the knowledge of an average citizen, a military official who probably served a military deadline somewhere, because I know you did not defend Western Serbian countries because you first went to Republika Srpska a few years ago, when you experienced one shock and stress. You were a little scared, I don't know why, so you later complained to Mr. Todorovic. You're a little scary, Minister, for no reason really. It was just one joke. On the other hand, we need to see what kind of army you found and where the army was last June. On June 5, 2006, there were 45,180 members, including 11,041 recruits, 11.994 civilians. The others were officers, officers and soldiers under contract. Since you have never, as defence minister, since 15 May, when you voted for yourself that night, as well as this unfortunate pride, the disgrace of the Serb army, you have never sought, insisted that Resolution 1244 be respected, in that part of the Military Technical Agreement, where our military and police are allowed, in the number of thousands, to return and be present in Kosovo and Metohija, to guard Serbian schools, sanctity and to represent security at this sensitive moment for our people there. Then the question really arises, with this present number of states, which is 27,000 people, 8 thousand soldiers, four thousand in units, four in training centres, the remaining professional members of the Army, by destroying the garrison in Kragujevac, and now very learned people, who have passed all the general schools, the Colonels of the Yugoslav Army, have to travel, come and work at the General Staff in Belgrade, run jobs and sectors not by a doctrine with which you did not go out before these laws, but by NATO influences and NATO doctrines. So the question remains why you did it with the Serbian army and brought it down to this now, which I don't have until the end to read, but these are really exact data. The question is, how do you think and how do you see the Army of Serbia in 2015? With such an attitude, in a situation where there are not enough people, regular armies along the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija, so there must be officers there, you know best, how you think to oppose the banditism and terrorism of the Cypriot separatists, whom they are preparing for, and we don't know until that 10th or 11th December happens. For us, for me, for my colleague Dacic, Cvetanovic and his colleague Vukovic were not enough to convince "we have reorganised within our brigades in Kosovo and Metohija", because we have seen, based on our questions and concrete answers, that they are not ready to go to the end and to protect the Serbian people, as they have not done all this time. They have not answered our question, as the official co-operation document says that NATO is funding, under the Yugoslav Army Reorganisation Programme, a project for those who have lost their jobs and for those who need to be overqualified. Our particular question was -- how much did you get, as the Department of Defense, this year from the NATO Pact for that purpose? "We'll give you an answer later." So you're working together on money laundering, theft and kidnapping. Of course, we didn't get those answers in the next two days. We think that such a Euro-Atlantic alliance, which you advocate, and how it damages Serbia, especially because of that and in the context of the story just now, which some people who are not referred to, such as Mrs. Pesic, are completely uninvited in the events in the Russian Federation, or is having thoughts of those who went through some sewerage line yesterday called Jabloko, or are represented by Kasparov or some such traitoric force. So, unlike such uninvited ones, we asked a serious question. For example, for days, they, probably on the basis of talks with you, with Posje, with Tadic, since Kostunica allegedly claims something else, and there has not sent any representatives, claimed that it is good, that it will be stability for the Balkans, for the region etc., and in fact it turns out that their goal is to round up that continent, in the right sense of the occupation of post-socialist countries, since it represents a thorn in Russia, given that this should be a further sign of the claim of the largest military alliance today, which such a policy of hegemonism and force spreads and thus treats the peoples, such as the Serbian people, to kill, to destroy, to take our territory. We then asked the question -- how do they think they're building a relationship between friendship and alliance, when at the NATO summit a month ago Vladimir Putin told them that the alliance and friendship are not being built by the anti-rocket shield that you're going to spread right along the border with the Russian Federation. So we told them -- you know, there's a possibility, because Serbia is a Russian country and it's directed towards our friends, who at this point are the only ones who are willing to defend us, because they said they advocated the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, your friends from NATO, and Vladimir Putin and everyone who triumphed in the elections yesterday, that at all costs will safeguard our territorial integrity. They, of course, didn't have an answer to that, they said -- we have liaison officers here, we have an office, we cooperate, and we're in partnership with the Russian Federation. By threatening, threatening us, threatening Russia, threatening an entire righteous humanity who wants that policy of domination and force to stop it. You should have, Mr. Minister, since the day you took over the post of Secretary of Defense, worked on these documents that really represent military defense doctrine. When we talk about all the members and in particular, you will see that you are not only ill-formed members of the law, but that you yourself, as minister, are coming out of the sphere of jurisdiction, and the Chief of Staff, which is not good. Because the people in Serbia must know, God forbid there should ever be any war again, he must know that the Serb army should rely on what we traditionally have, and that is what we have to do through the centuries, defend ourselves and wage exclusively defensive wars. To get the experience out of it. For your information, Mr. Minister, that the only reason General Delic, General Pavkovic and General Lazarevic were so heroicly defending themselves from these NATO aggressors is because of the fact that today we have Resolution 1244, which is the only straw of salvation. We were the only ones in this congregation against that document. If you look at the military now, in an international and legal sense, it is the only document that can help both the Serbian negotiating team and every state official, every MP wherever he appears and says -- Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia, the status of Kosovo and Metohija must be exclusively within the framework of our constitutional system, the legal order and the resolution voted in the Security Council, to be resolved. To end with this, therefore, that Euro-Atlanticism and you, and Boris Tadic and that Jovicic by your side, I don't know what the gentleman's name is, all those sold-out NATO souls, of course, can't take Serbia far. You said earlier, some other parties in Serbia say, "this is what the people will declare a referendum." First, as regards the Partnership for Peace, and the change of political forces in Serbia and the election of Mr Tomislav Nikolic as president, Mr Sutanovac, and we will have to examine it a little bit. When one such responsible statesman and a man who cares about the interests of the military, the state and the people talk about it the way we did it last week, the situation will change. I don't even know where you get the right to send Vuk Jeremic to Brussels on September 5th, that he, in his attachment to co-operation with the NATO Pact, is presenting this document that publishes this Tarotised paper called "Defense", as everyone who writes for this paper represents a NATO pact. We get it as members of the Defence and Security Committee, so I'm telling the MPs to try and find it. What are you reading? ) Unlike you, Mr. Ristic, who you know nothing about, I need to know what the enemy is doing, to break it inside, as I did all last week, I need to know where the treasonous government is leading Serbia and I need to know, for the sake of myself and the future of this people, what those who don't think well of Serbia think. (President Milosevic Albianic: Please pay attention to the words, Miss Jovanovic. Betrayal is not a good word. I'll finish it, Mr. Sutanovac, in the end, to see how well-intentioned I was and upon my return from this time I wanted to bring you a present. Namely, those who are bribing you and paying you for years, whose schools you have passed, in the supposed manner of a good host, have come out with a gift that usually gives to parliamentarians who come to them. It's about some NATO bags, with those brochures that you agree with, that it wasn't aggression, it was a humanitarian campaign, not even intervention on the Serbian people, so various glorifying media things inside, such as presenting the battle fact of NATO forces, etc. Then, not kidding, I really said, "People, I have to give this to Dragan Sutanovac." That's what all the members of the delegation unanimously told me: "You're free of it, there's no need for it, it has a skin connection, with gold and a lot of money in the account it gets from those who advocate Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12667	The word has an MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as DHSS MP, I believe that the proposals of these laws are mostly correct. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will respect and respect several amendments to our parliamentary group and that afterwards we will vote for the adoption of these laws. At one point, I was afraid that we were in the Russian Duma, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was afraid that there were some MPs here, not MPs, but I just don't know if they had the authority of Mr Putin, but there went a step further. We've heard insults here at the expense of the Russian opposition. The traitors are no longer just among us, one step further here, the traitors are being sought both in the Russian Duma and in the Russian political life, so it reminds us of some time ago. One more thing, at the time of that great epic of the Serbian army in the First World War, in Kajmakhalan, on the Thessaloniki front, these famous generals who had passed through the glory of the Serbian army, were going into great battles with the anthem "God of Justice", not with the American, nor the French, nor with the Russian anthem, but with the anthem "God of Justice". That's our anthem, because this is Serbia. When Milunka Savic, as the greatest hero of the First World War, was named "Serbian Mother", the Order of the Fifth Republic and the Order of the Legion of Honor, the Serbian Anthem was intonated, and it is called "the God of Justice". After this great epic and these magnificent victories, Vidovdan was marked in English churches and schools, the anthem "God of Justice" was inaugurated. That's our anthem. There's no other anthem, it's written in the Constitution. If anyone wants another anthem, let them go there, let them take the citizenship of that land and enjoy it and stand still before the sounds of that anthem. Mr. Minister, what I would like to draw attention to and what I would like to ask you is a question of military status. It's their turn to return their lost dignity, it's their turn to respect, it's their turn not to be second-class citizens. These are the members of the military who lived in Slovenia, Croatia; to resolve their pensions, their apartments; 22,000 are homeless soldiers. All MP groups received their memos, their appeals, their requests. There is an abandoned barracks in Obrenovac. It has 16 families of former JNA officers living in a barracks with one bathroom and one bathroom. Some kids are born here, now they're full-aged and still living here. I'm asking you to take care of their status, to review the award of apartments made by one of your predecessors at the Florist, where war criminals, I think, one of your predecessors, not to bid, got an apartment of a few acres, and we don't even know the names of those... (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Is any of them legally convicted? It is, but when you go out for a pay phone, then you can deny it. So it's a shame and a shame that apartments of a few acres are won by generals who have lost all wars. And what about the families of those soldiers who went to their deaths resisting NATO armies, do we know their names? Is their status resolved? Consider it, Mr. Minister, and the "Satellite" case and the "Topcider" case. It has nothing to do with you, of course, it has to do with someone else, but it's enough of that veil of secrets and that mystery and that attempt to prove that the army is infallible, that there is no other truth than the one that presents itself to us. I know you're thinking differently, and that's why I'm asking you, and in the name of another 49 soldiers who have been killed in peace like they're at war and allegedly all committed suicide. I know their fates, and the Jakovljevic families, and Milovanovic, and Zarkovic, and Kostic, and Matic and others. Let's take a step forward. One more thing, as far as I'm concerned, I know you may have this rigid attitude, but once again, I'm asking you to reconsider something concerning the Toplice County military reserve. It's about thousands of people who responded to the military's call. Some of them have charged part of the logbook, some have not, but, Mr. Minister, hundreds of people have charged the war logs. Among them, two judges of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, members of their family, one man who is in local self-government from your party, from the DS, at an important post in the local self-government in the district. So, hundreds of millions of dinars have been paid, some lawsuits have, therefore, been completed with judgments, large sums of money, some are still being tried, others are reportedly rejected due to obsolescence, completely disputable and unrealistic, in fourth cases courts are advertised unsuspecting, in the fifth case of chama in drawers. I repeat, or someone unintendedly spent money from the budget and then has to be held accountable, but they can't be second-class citizens. Why aren't they mobilizing now? Who will now mobilize these people and mention such a possibility, related to Kosovo or near Kosovo and Metohija? No one will respond to that mobilization. They can't be those sad characters from the Grey House of Dostoyevsky. Let's find some measure, so that Serbia doesn't be some mother and some stepmother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12669	Secretary of Defense, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12670	I thank MP Batic for opening the issue of military status. Believe me, the imperative of the moment when I became a minister is to deal with military status and these laws should allow the military faces to get the status they own. The September response of a 99% recruit shows that trust in the military has been restored. It's not enough. The new budget will allow members of the Army to be balanced with salaries in the administration, to practically increase by about 30% to 40%. It is true that there are about 22,000 members of the Army and pensioners who are looking for an apartment. Of those 22,000, 6 grand has an unresolved question. Mr. Batic, you were in power, too. There's not a single party in this room that wasn't in power. I promise that in this year, thousands more, or next year, of the next budget, thousands, I will mention again, of the housing problems I will begin to solve. I'd like to look myself in the eye with everyone who was in power in the earlier period who did. On the other hand, you say - let's take a step forward. I absolutely support it. I'll put up with all the criticism here today, that I'm whatever it is, but I'll tell you that, as long as tomorrow, I'll be back with my army in "KZB," I'll go through everything. Today, my State Secretary, or State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, tours the bases on the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija. When I finish this job, I'll be downstairs. Believe me, I don't need anyone to warn me and tell me about the Serbian army and the Serbian tradition. As for the war reserve logs, Mr. Batic, I have exact indicators that they've raised. The gentleman who runs the entire protest got from me the document he signed. When I asked if he signed it, he did, he said, he signed it. We can't go from wrong to wrong, and we can't because someone has fooled the law so everyone can cheat on the law, by taking off the military budget, or the Ministry of Defence, to take down a billion euros. We simply don't have enough budget to pay off everything double. There's no logic to get, I'm free to tell my Toplicians, in these people there's my family that's looking for it, but there's no logical way to get double diaries. Or, if you can tell me, since you're the lawyer, the science doctor, what right it is, if you say someone who committed a crime and didn't get caught, and you're free of responsibility if you commit the same crime. It's just that it's a thing I'm not rigid in. As defence minister, I'm protecting people's money and I can't let anyone abuse what's wrong with the economic situation in the region. I'd very much like to help you as the Department of Defense and on the subject, but that's not our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12671	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Todorovic, and then Vladan Batic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this point in Arangelovac, in Shumadi, something terrible is happening. Jake's police force, directed to citizens by Police Minister Dragan Jocic, is located outside the cultural centre building in Arangelovac. The traitor television, the B-92 anti-Serbian TV, announced last week that there will be a show called "The Sandstone" and that the participants of that show will be moral freaks and, in any way you will, a certain Petar Lukovic, Theophil Pancic, Miljenko Dereta and I do not count them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12673	Please, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12674	Shut up, Mr. Albianic, because now you're not being hit by a Serbian gendarme, but by people who are in front of the House of Culture and be so kind as to listen, and if you don't have any committees, or a party in Arangelovac, at least listen to what's going on there, because you're the vice president of the Assembly and your Gusicka ended up under the "difference", with pork and lamb, it's so infamous and it's been passed with the Assembly, and here it's a serious thing. In Arangelovac, therefore, the strong forces of the gendarmes sent by the police minister or by whom he was subordinated, and that is why I reported in accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure, let the public know that it's possible that there may be an incident. Namely, these mentioned earlier representatives of the anti-Serbian campaign in Serbia and such television, because they hate everything that is Serbian, protecting the gendarmes from citizens. The bare-armed citizens came, they're in the O.R. as long as they can fit, 200 or 300, came to hear what topics begin those who are sent here to spread such anti-Serb hysteria. Thousands of citizens are in an Arangelovac, which is not a big town, now on the street and at a narrow passageway in front of the House of Culture building. I remind you, Mr. Albianic, that your obligation as chairman is to immediately inform you of this, I have reported to you by Article 225, Oliver Dulic, wherever he is, to immediately contact Dragan Jocic and to tell him to withdraw the gendarme, because these unfortunate people can't even start that show there, because the people won't. The people of Shumadia, in Serbia, will not betray, will not foreign mercenaries, will not be in Russia, will not be anywhere, because they have never brought anything good to our people, and especially to the Arabs, who have suffered a lot because of DOS policy on a global scale, and that is why the president of the Serb Radical municipality is there, and that is why the SRS participates in the coalition government. The situation is more than alarming and serious and therefore, Mr. Albianic, send a message from these rates, wherever there is Minister Dragan Jocic, because it is moments and there may be an incident that no one wants, and the gendarme itself is causing, because it protects those who do not need to protect themselves, but to be on the pillar of shame, because such campaigns work here in Serbia and today in Arangelovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12675	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just amazing how much Russia is bothering some and the love of Serbian radicals towards Russia. There is no question at all about the relationship between the SRS and the radicals towards Serbia. Serbia comes first to us. In the first place, our anthem, but we love Russia. We also love the Russian anthem. We're glad Russia is slowly upright. I don't know why it bothers anyone. It is not the love that has been since yesterday, as far as the SRS has been doing since the start of political action, we have made it clear and loud to the Serbian people, and there is no dilemma on this issue. But why don't you remember a little history? Why don't you go a little further than World War I? Why don't you think of the first Serbian uprising? How do you not remember that they came from Russia in a large number of volunteers, with Count Vronski, who gave his life in Serbia. Imagine if some of them showed up at that time like today, let's say at Karadjord's to explain to him that we don't need the Russians and what the Russians, wherever they are, and how they were, would then make their remarks, and would never be in a position to say any word to anyone again. It seems that you prefer all the other anthems, those anthems of those countries that are in Kosovo and Metohija today and that allow the Albanian anthem to play there. There's no God of justice. Ask yourself who's responsible for this. Why are we in part of our territory not able to play our anthem? For God's sake, it's hard for you to listen to the Russian anthem, an anthem of a state that still gives us Kosovo and Metohija. You don't think it's because of you. You came to power in 2000, so your friends, who brought you to power, did not allow you to restore Kosovo and Metohija. As I recall, that was a democratic question. When the regime collapses in Belgrade, when democratic power comes, there will be no problems. Here comes the democratic government for seven years, and what's going on with Kosovo and Metohija? They're trying to take Kosovo and Metohija from us. What are they suggesting about the Vojvodina? They will also take the Duke from us, that after that, Raska will come, that what we warn you will come. They want to destroy both Serbia and the Serbian people, and we see only protection in Russia and that's why we love both Russia and the Russian anthem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12677	National MP Vladan Batic according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I was very well-intentioned earlier when I spoke, and I said that you might be rigid with the reserves and now I see that you're also superficial, because obviously you don't have enough real information. Mr. Minister, I don't know what it meant to you, you were all in power, so you were in power, alluding to me. Right, Mr. Minister, I've been dealing with the judiciary. In the judiciary, salaries have been raised seven, eight times. I did my job. Remember who was head of the Department of Defense before you. Nobody. No one from the Democratic Party of Serbia, no one from the MP club LDP, no one. They were the first two ministers from Montenegro. Minister, I don't mind you coming out and explaining. I'm talking about who the ministers were, and you're telling me who the candidate was. I don't know who the candidate was, or I'm interested, I know who the ministers were. They were Mr. Krapovic, so Boris Tadic, Radojevic. Mr. Minister, I don't know why you're nervous. Usually when there are no arguments, then there's anxiety. However, Krapovic, Radojevic, Boris Tadic, Davinic, Zoran Stankovic, so you, this is the job of the defence minister. That's one. Two, the commander-in-chief was Vojislav Kostunica, now someone else, and the status of military faces is sad. Under three, it has been prevented to form a polling committee for Delta, that the money that every citizen loses due to the obvious monopoly, which is clear to birds on the branch, would be distributed to the reserve and military figures, would be a different situation. I know that now from this optics of Santa, you see the world differently, but it's sad that these people of chama, they break the thresholds, on the ice, on the snow, on the rain, in the winter, and so on. And you're wrong. Dejan Milosevic, who led the protest, or strike committee of Toplici County reserves, as well as many, charged one-third of the daily bills. All those who sued, sued, hundreds of convictions were made, through the Fourth Municipal Court, charged, and that's true. If you don't have enough information, as once a good minister with information, I'll bring you all the data, all black and white. Don't be nervous, Mr. Minister, life goes on, everything in life is fleeting. You need to understand your place in that transition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12679	Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12680	Mr Batić, you have now convinced me that what I have been carrying in me for seven years when I voted for the government of Zoran Djindjic, that I was wrong to have you as minister of justice, you have now convinced me that I may have made a mistake in voting for you at that time. What you're saying, not that it's not true and not that it's not superficial, but it's malicious. And the story in which you perform as a lawyer in the Serbian Parliament is not only incorrect, but you should ask yourself why and from what point of view. I'm telling you, Mr. Milosevic has charged everything. I may not be a doctor of legal science, but believe me, I'm a doctor of mathematics for you definitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12681	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the MP Milena Stankovic, then the MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12682	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from Articles 225 and 226. I'd just like to ask you a few questions, or I'd like to make an appeal. You are aware that you are probably, as I am, from the media at the first moment that from today's session, as you saw, you have withdrawn the budget law and following the laws, income tax on citizens, profits of enterprises, etc., which were immediately returned to this National Assembly. Based on what I've managed to look at so far, completely unchanged. I don't think any of them have been altered. It's already another topic that we're going to have a chance to talk about with the budget, and we know it's withdrawn because some parties are in a hurry to discuss presidential elections, but we're going to have a little more talk about it. What makes me say that? By the time you've done that, you have a chance, now you have time to consider the difficult situation that military pensioners have in Serbia. When I say that, I think equally of officers and officers, and perhaps something more about sub-offices who are really in serious material condition. Their material condition is terrible. Their pensions range from 11,000 to 14,000. I'm saying this, I'm not saying that civilian pensioners are in bad shape, there are those who are in far worse shape, but since this law is on the agenda and because the minister is here, I have a chance to say it. We have a situation that these people, in order to maintain the elementary decency of life, are forced to fire fire at 75, 76, to guard various garages, to be night porters and guards, to spend their share of life in which they should enjoy the fruits of work. Because, I remind you, these are people who have earned their bread honestly, who loved this country, who love it still, of course, and who have worked in the ministry honestly. I'm taking this opportunity to make a request to you together as my colleagues who are from the ruling parties, because I know that by your vote you can do this, and these people from the ministry here, make an appeal to the government to separate the larger funds for these people, to provide them with a little more decent pensions, to have something to live on. Because if they can separate the resources from the various cabinets and the presidents of the Republic and the Government spend tens and hundreds of millions of dinars on the trip, on the team, then they can separate the funds and these people have a more decent and decent life, because it's a shame that these antiques, honest people, who were sub-officers and officers who were the spinal pillar of our army all these years, it's a shame that they've come to live at 100 or 150 euros in pensions and are forced to do humiliating, degrading jobs so that they can separate a hundred dinars a month to buy their grandchildren a chocolate or to have simple elementary funds to pay for electricity and other communals. I ask you to stand up for this and it will be a contribution to how to ensure a better life, which the SRS does every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12683	The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic. Praying we could end the controversy, get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I've reported to you under Rule 225. Earlier on, Natasa Jovanovic spoke about the subject I want to talk about. She was talking about the Sandstone show, or the stands that are about to happen at the moment, and it's not happening in Arangelovac. For the sake of the public who's following this, and maybe he doesn't know what "the Sandman" is, I'd say it's a show where Serbian citizenship has the opportunity to hear a healthy word. The Sandstones' stands are actually being organized so that these shows can be recorded. These are really oasis of common sense in Serbia and everything you said, Ms. Jovanovic, really doesn't stand. The show was scheduled to take place two weeks ago in Arangelovac, but then a campaign was organised by the SRS, New Serbia and the DSS, so their local organisations, which made it impossible for the tribune to happen and this is actually another attempt by these people to reorganise the stands. Unfortunately, it's not happening at this point, but it's not because there's no one to hear it, on the contrary, that a lot of people came to hear the speakers saying in this stands, but because it's just those who opposed the original happening of this tribune, so the SRS, the NS and the DSS, who brought fans from the surrounding cities who are making it impossible for this to happen and who are jeopardising the safety of citizens who have just come to hear what these people have to say. The LDP team issued a statement that I would now read. May I have your attention, please? "The government policy of Vojislav Kostunica, which returns Serbia to the 1990s, is taking full swings after incidents in the Sands Tribute in Arangelovac. The organised arrival of party activists and hooligans, the spontaneous event of the people, is only an introduction to the creation of an atmosphere of lynch and unanimity, which should be an umbrella and a mask for a failed policy conducted by the current government in negotiations on Kosovo, but also in relations with the European Union. In an atmosphere where anyone who thinks differently will be called a traitor, conditions are created for Serbia to choose instead of a European future the future of Russia's Governorate, and the promises of the policy of peace that today is given to us by the representatives of the authorities remain only a lush shelter behind which the real essence of today's government is hidden. 'Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12685	Please do not abuse Articles 225 and 226 for replicas instead of what is on the agenda. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12686	The people's will must be respected in Serbia, and it is quite obvious before the presidential elections are held, but it will also be confirmed in the local elections in Arangelovac. The citizens of Arangelovec, the patriotic forces of our country, were there adults, young men and girls, students, high school students, decided and were to this extent organized, in that will, that such a treasonous policy by these B 92 promoters, not police in the right sense, but have such a name, anti-Serbian certainly, would not allow such a show to be recorded there. I've just received information that these unfortunate people had to sit in the car and split up, maybe go to some coffee shop, they're for the Aryan people of non-grat, there's nothing to look for, there's no show, the people went home, they beat the people's will, and the traitors in some rat hole, so let them do whatever they want, the people in Arangelovac and Serbia won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12687	And you abused the Rules of Procedure, you didn't say a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12688	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of 225 and 226, I call on the finance minister to finally end the robbery of Serbian carriers. Unfortunately, for years, the practice has been established that our carriers are obliged to enter certain parking or terminals during customs duty, and in order to carry out customs duties, customs are required to ask them for proof that they have paid for the parking space. Unfortunately, all these parking spaces are mostly private, private enterprises or private areas that have contracted with customs and therefore have the opportunity to collect extremely large profits without the state benefiting from it. Not to mention, prices range from 550 dinars to 2,000 dinars on Horgos. Specially interesting is the Horgos customs crossing, which was built by an EU donation, but was given to a private company, the company is otherwise called "Ideal", which charges 2,000 dinars to our carriers and 3,000 to foreign carriers. It is interesting that you who advocate for the EU, for European values, standards, etc. allow our transporters, who have literally been brought to the brink of survival since 2000, to be robbed in this way. The conditions in which they work are such that the question is whether they can survive at all. Unfortunately, not only do you not worry, but by your own measures, you allow other countries to profit from the accidents of our carriers. I'll tell you that a bilateral agreement has been concluded with, say, Slovenia, their carriers and our carriers do not need bilateral, transit, or third country permits. That is why you will see a huge number of Slovenian trucks loading in Serbia without any restrictions and driving to Slovenia, but you will therefore see a small number of Serbian trucks that can load in Slovenia, because Slovenians do not only allow any of our companies to open a representative office there, but also do not allow our transporters to load in Slovenia. I pay particular attention, but only when I get this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as it is already called, to get to know myself, and I will meet the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as we have signed these conditions when it comes to our transporters, i.e. transport from Western Europe or the EU and Serbia. We have fully equated this small, powerless Serbia with the EU on conditions. Do you think that'll work for us? It's normal that they won't answer to us. They will answer to EU carriers, especially Russia, or the Russian Federation, as they will be able to drive to the Russian Federation without any problems under the agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12689	The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go, Mr. Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, before I begin to explain what I wanted to tell you, I would like to ask you - who authorized you to violate the Constitution, and so on. 2, 8, 95, paragraphs 5, 139, 200 and 201 of your statements that the military will not intervene in Kosovo in the event of a unilateral declaration. That's exactly what you said -- what you're saying we're going to go to NATO when no one asks you. For example, Article 99 - National Assembly at point 5 decides on war and peace, declares war and emergency.... Where did you hear me say that once? )......................................................................................................... Once, I've heard it 10 times. In Article 139, the Serbian Army defends the country against armed endangerment outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. I think this member clearly defines what the Serbian Army must do in the event of a unilateral declaration of independence. I know some of your colleagues are a little nervous, and they don't like what I'm saying, but that's the thing. Now, let me tell you right now, you're probably familiar with this, as someone who deals with this, that the military is not only an organ of force, but also has a very significant role in the diplomatic process. One of the strategic basis for the adoption of defence laws should be Serbia, which has a strong, diverse and ready military force to eliminate direct threats, endanger national security and deter potential attackers from armed aggression against Serbia. Do not remove one of the basic tasks of the army in the diplomatic process by your statements, or by not only your statements, but even by the statements of the president of Serbia, and by giving us one of the important arguments. Be assured that one of the main arguments of the international community is why Kosovo should gain independence from causing unrest in Kosovo. I think at least you heard it from some international community representative, that Kosovo must gain independence because Albanians will cause unrest. Minister, I must tell you that in your contacts with the President, you have left more than the law and the Constitution allow, and in short I will read to you what the Minister's tasks are in peace... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What is the law? ) I am telling you in principle, according to the Constitution, by law and by all norms, the defence minister has no need to be at peace with the president of Serbia, because he is responsible only to the Prime Minister, as well as to the Minister of Interior and other ministers in the Government, the Ministry and the authorities of the state administration... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: where does it say? )......................................................................................................... It's in the Government Act or Ministry Act. The defence minister is a trustee of the Serb people in the Serbian Army, not a military commander in the Serb people. In order not to list it, there will be time when we talk about the amendments, since the SPS parliamentary group has only 19 minutes, and there are more of us who want to speak to you. There's something else I wanted to do with some of your attitudes. You say there will be no war, there will be peace. I must admit that your understanding of the beginning of the war is equal to understanding little Perica and certainly does not fit the function you're in. (President: Please take care of yourself) Have I offended you? Why are you intervened? Then I ask you if the Serbs wanted the First World War -- no, of course not, but in that war they lost 25% of the population, 50% of the male population? Did the Serbs want World War II - no, of course not. That's what the English wanted, so they made us lose 1,700,000 people, as much as Yugoslavia lost, 1.500,000 Serbs died. Neither will this war, Mr. Minister, start Serbs and Albanians, but those whose interests we have been at war for the past 200 years. Really, that story -- we're going to do this, like, it doesn't matter. This was about defense, and now I'm going to tell you Mr. Secretary something about the army. You've been planning on hiring an army abroad in some of the members. Do you know what will happen to soldiers who are killed or killed there? You haven't thought about it, and that's for sure, as soon as the soldiers are on a foreign mission, it has to happen. As a wartime military invalid, I must tell you that those under the current laws on martial law do not have any jurisdiction or will be able to achieve any benefits. All the countries that do this, all their soldiers who send for foreign missions, provide insurance companies. I hope you saw it coming, and I don't think you saw it coming from what I read in this law. I really think you're making a big mistake and leaving an unsaid one very dangerous phenomenon. Okay, when there's a special law, that's how in the pension and social insurance law, you've called for some new law that you don't know will never be passed, or what it's going to be. I also want to tell you that you did not honor the agreement that you had, not you, but your assistant minister, with the presidents of the Association of Military Disabilities and in article 125, you did not make a commitment. While your assistant minister is at that meeting for 30. On the 10th of this year, he promised that priority in military employment would be severe military disabilities, that is, their families and their children. Look at 30. The 10th that your assistant had a meeting with the representatives of the Association, so you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12691	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Batic, let's not get into controversy. Let's get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12692	I didn't cause controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12693	May I have your attention, please, Mr. Batic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12694	Give me back my time. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I expect your apology, because you've completely for no reason allowed yourself to say that I'm not telling the truth, that I'm abusing a pay phone, that I'm malicious and immoral. Mr. Chairman, you should have warned the minister that he couldn't insult the MPs just because I said... [[elevator in the O.R.]] [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12695	Please, Mr. Minister, and I'd like to ask the MPs to listen to Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12696	Please, really, give me my time back. I'm advocating a violation of article 200. Rules of Procedure. Why? Because I said I owned lists of Toplico County military reservers, like you own them, who collected one part of the journal, and I also owned lists of all those who sued in contrast and got disputes and charged. I also said, without any drama, if you don't have that information, you don't have enough information, and then your reaction is superficial. I don't see what's offensive about that. I also said that if someone charged him, or if someone paid him out of the budget, which he has no right to, then whoever did it has damaged the state and has to answer. I don't see what's so terrible about that. You said because I'm a lawyer, I guess I'm immoral, and I'm abused by a congregation pay phone. Mr. Minister, for the injured soldiers, I really represented them, I never took the dinar -- if I thought to take it, I hope I gave it to the loved ones for the drugs. These reserves are still formally legal in court I don't represent. They're protesting 80 days before they came to me. What difference does it make now? I'm just saying one phenomenon. If you expect someone who belongs to the opposition won't criticise the government, then that's the problem. Mr. Minister, one more thing. You reacted so I wouldn't be your choice. Of course I'm not your choice and I'm glad I'm not. I am the choice of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. You are not his choice, you are the choice of Vojislav Kostunica, because you are the minister of his government, and that is true. In that government, you are with those you spoke of all the worst -- Velimir Ilic, Jocic. In that government, you, not me, voted for Dejan Mihajlov to be the secretary general, the one who is your president, and my president, and former Prime Minister Zivkovic, to say -- who killed Djindjic, if not, will say so. You voted to make him the secretary general. And for Balinovac, who we barely kicked out of here, which was a JUL choice, and you voted for him to be director of the Legislative Affairs Directorate. That's what you did, they're your choice. I'm not your choice and it's normal that when they're your choice, which I'm not your choice, and I'm glad about that. Not to say you're in a coalition with the one you said you'd take his clothes off or put on his hooligans. And I guess he's your choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12697	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Koprivica, and then a National MP, Zarko Obradovic. Mr. Batic, please, now you pay attention, let's hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12698	The honourable MPs, in modern conditions of life in the international community, are full of contradictions and conflicts of interest, and particularly the hegemonic aspirations of the United States and other forces, which make up this barbaric NATO pact or alliance, Serbia's readiness to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity is now particularly on trial. The combatability of the military and other entities responsible for the defence assumes a specific man for this, but also good technical equipment. At the same time, each member of the army must necessarily be trained to use weapons and military equipment. Hence, the country's defence under this proposal, and especially according to the Constitution, takes on special importance and commitment, at least on paper. But let's see how things are about this obligation now. I'm almost terrified. The Friday-October revolution was announced by honey and milk in Serbia and the Serbian people, and Serbia reportedly sailed into democratic waters of Europe. The Serbian radicals had this scenario in mind, but we didn't think they'd humiliate us like that. In all of this, honest Serbian people and Kosovo-metohic martyrs, prisoners of the only camp in Europe, were deceived. Gentlemen Dosovci, you must have known that the Kosovo issue was not a humanitarian issue. The American bandits, who are now bewitched, yes, yes, Mr. Minister, without the UN Security Council's approval and for no legal or moral reason, bombed Serbia. We know the victims of this barbaric act. And then they went on to crime, justifying it with a godless genocide, and now by moving for the work of our sacred Serbian, Kosovo country. It is sad that you know all this and deceive your people. Shipari, the majority of Serbian enemies, supported by America, do not give up on an unreasonable and impertinent requirement for independence. Thanks to you and your politics, things can go even worse, and I hope only temporarily. What do these two of your military and defense laws provide for us? Almost nothing real. All the formulations, all the norms are in the sphere of theory and illusion. Although Serbia has a huge anti-natotic mood, it unfortunately has a complete army under the control of this barbaric alliance. Arms, for example. The funds are related to NATO standards. The explanation is that it is doing better co-operation in joint missions. Gentlemen, missions are not the only way to use the Serbian Army to get someone to believe you this nebulosis and untruth. What about transforming Serbia's army? To tell the truth, that this glorious heroic army, which won the empire, today barely survives, believing in miracles that it can be saved. You destroyed a heavy conventional weapon that has successfully defended the country so far, so the strategy of the armed forces comes down to the transformation of the battalion's military units. I could see that as the reserve captain of the first class, for some future NATO alliance missions intended for engagement in Iran, Afghanistan and other countries, where the American soulless fingered. What do you expect from these laws, when American and English spies in Serbia, with the papers and orders of Carla del Ponte, follow? Has DOS forgotten Serbia's procedure after the ultimatum in Vienna? Is that gratitude to the hundreds of thousands who have given their lives for honor and freedom and for our Serbia? There are numerous indiscretions and shortcomings in these draft laws. Besides, it's all about abstraction and dictatorship on the side. You don't think of the introduction of unions and the participation of so-called. A peace mission something revolutionary that you've done? It's as revolutionary as your October 5th. I really don't see a place in the law with these unsuspecting, punitive and narcissistic provisions. Have you been so scared, Mr. DOS, for life, when you took that light word out of your oath, no less important than honor, especially someone else's. Gentlemen DOS, according to the plan of the criminal NATO pact, for the alleged Serbian future, you have destroyed the country's basic security lever, the Army of the Republic of Serbia. With bitterness and disappointment, I watched the other day when a large group of chosen young people collect leaves and other waste by hospital and factory circles. I don't think it's a natural picture to a Serb man when he sees his soldier like that and he carries pictures of soldiers from Cera, Kolubara and numerous wars from the glorious Serbian past in his mind. These young people are the place, Mr. Minister, in barracks, where they can engage on countless useful and adequate tasks with close military needs. We Serbian radicals tell you that the defence of the country has no alternative. See that in these difficult days, crucial to Serbia and the Serbian people, you do not make mistakes and prevent the abduction of the sacred Serbian country, because this is the oath of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12699	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12700	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we MPs of the SPS believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the general public of the Republic of Serbia did not give meaning to these laws as they deserve. The fact is that for the first time in 17 months since Serbia is independent, we are discussing two important laws like this. Unfortunately, I do not think the public has prepared the ground for the adoption of these laws in the way it deserves, because the issue of the military and defence is of primary importance for the Republic of Serbia, because unfortunately, again, these laws have the capacity just to prepare a legal basis for holding elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. It is a fact, to create legal conditions that the President of the Republic can be elected, vice versa, for the coalition to be held in power, which is unfortunately the purpose of passing these laws. We haven't heard today from the government's representatives a more detailed explanation of what the Socialists think should say when the military law is being discussed. That the passing of the law has a short-term goal may be better than this word of mine tells me that we have not discussed so far the issues which, in our opinion, should go along with the laws on the military and defence laws, which is the issue of the national security strategy, the issue of the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the issue of the doctrine of the army of the Republic of Serbia, because these are absolutely complementary issues with this. It seems to us that it would be better and more logical, more grateful that these issues were on the agenda, so that a whole set of questions or at least what is in the scope of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be discussed. I'm not saying this by accident. We have the impression, unfortunately, that he is running away from this topic of the national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia for extremely pragmatic reasons. Em's army has been brought into the situation in which it is, objectively destroyed in different ways, and it may be avoided to clearly define what is what is considered essential in the national security strategy, in the country's defence strategy in relation to the situation in which Serbia is located. And the situation in which Serbia is, unfortunately, threatened its territorial integrity inside and outside, and in that context, I think it is very bad that some representatives of the government take the right to speak on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, unfortunately, in the context of that, I must call you. I don't think it's good for the army of the Republic of Serbia, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the state of the Republic of Serbia, if it wasn't good for you to take the right to make statements about NATO, you as a minister of the military shouldn't allow yourself, as a party official, but as a minister of the army you shouldn't, because neither did the ministry of that matter, nor did the government of the Republic of Serbia take the position, nor did the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the most significant body of elected representatives of the Republic of Serbia, bring any court about it. We in the SPS would be interested, because we expected to hear it honestly today from the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially the Minister of Defence, to hear what the army of the Republic of Serbia today is, how many members of the army there are, how many civilians are in that structure, how many officers, how many officers, how many of them we have, and how many weapons we have, what of what we have, do we have, what the tribes of the army have, do we have or don't have planes, how things are with tanks, guns, with basic types of weapons. Because it seems to me that today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by discussing these two topics that make sense with what I'm saying, we don't hear that information, then we remain one piece deprived of the answers to what the army of the Republic of Serbia is today and what is the essence of the law on the military and the law on defence. It should not be forgotten, the army of the Republic of Serbia was objectively punished after 2000 for what it did in 1999. Unfortunately, a very large campaign against the army of the Republic of Serbia, against the army of the SRJ was under way, but in the structure of the army, the largest number, of course, was made up of people from the Republic of Serbia. A campaign was conducted by the countries of the West that have committed aggression on our country, and unfortunately a campaign by domestic political representatives was led, primarily by that structure called the former DOS, and it was supported by NGOs. The army was destroyed in different ways and came to the branches it came to. I think it would be good in this context to hear from the defence minister what the position of the army of other countries is in relation to the number of inhabitants, because there is some information that, for example, the country of Greece, a NATO member country, has a far greater number than it is recommended for us. In particular, the specific issue on which the criteria of the Republika Srpska Army have been reduced to this quantitative number. I expect you to say that, and by what criteria, simply in the meantime, a reduction of the army's numerous composition has been done over the past few years. Since I don't have much time, and there's a lot to say about these issues, we've filed on behalf of the SPS thirty and some amendments and there's a lot to say, but let me just keep your attention on one question, because we're going to discuss these professional issues according to the amendments. Minister, I think it would be good for you to tell us what will be the fate of military individual pensioners, because we think that their acquired rights cannot be diminished, that they should not experience the fate of people who have been in the military their entire lives, have done one for the country a very important job and then come into a situation that objectively their destiny is difficult. Of course, I suppose the state's intensity should be to improve the pensioner's overall position. One legal and logical question arises - whether military pensioners can, in relation to the rights they had, be brought into another and legal and factual situation. As for us in the SPS, we'll wait for the government's statement on these amendments, I say, there are 30 of them. We think that this debate, in general about the amendments and about the laws in principle, should all be used together to get to know the citizens of the Republic of Serbia not only about the state of the army, but to see what Serbia needs in terms of what the elements of the strategy are, and since, as far as I understand it, we still cannot discuss either the national strategy, nor the defence strategy, nor other relevant documents of importance for the Army of the Republic of Serbia, especially for the security of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12701	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP of the people Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12702	Mr. Albianic, that's Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12703	Is he hurt, member?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12704	I'm quoting which member, Article 136. The Rules of Procedure require that each bill has an adequate explanation and explanation, so that MPs have insight into what is proposed and what is on the agenda. The only positive in these two draft laws, since the debate is united, is the neat first party on which the content of the law stands and this is the epochal novelty of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Anything else can be forgotten. If the main explanation and explanation of the reasons for the adoption of these two laws is what the Government's representative said about these points at the beginning of this debate, then we need to get together nicely and go home. Because it doesn't satisfy even the basic conditions to discuss these two draft laws. For me, for example, it would be interesting if I had some comparative information about the state of the armed forces in our environment. Why? For the simple reason that some began in 1981 in Kosovo and Metohija, and you see in 2007 or 2008 someone thinks it must end in Kosovo and Metohija. I have to remind you that in 91st year, when the orchestrated break-up of former SFRY started, the first one on strike was JNA, because it was a symbol of statehood. However, it was the fourth military force in Europe. This continuity of breaking up the former Yugoslav Army, then Serbia-Montenegro's military, takes dramatic chances, as I get the impression that what Boris Tadic couldn't finish in 2001 and 2002 or when he was a minister, he managed to finish in 2007. Of course, this government official on these agenda points, with his intelligence and security biography, is well-known, and we can't expect anything else from him. I expect an explanation of the law from the government, from Vojislav Kostunica. I'm looking for an explanation: Is this the continuity of something called an army break-up? It's very difficult for someone to talk about the dignity of this kind of civil servants, such as active military personnel, when they're in the service. They're wanted, of course, for party resemblance. We have here repeatedly over the past few months set concrete examples, where people who meet all the conditions at work have proved to be quality, successful officers, kicked out of work. We don't have a projection of what our army should look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12705	Mr. Krassic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12706	Especially, Mr. Albianic, what you're interested in, we don't know how long the army will be washing diapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12707	National MP Vidoje Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12708	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in accordance with Article 226. I have a Mr. Minister's Rules of Procedure to ask specifically two questions, and above all the matter of the adoption of this law. I just want to say that this law has its own particular shortcomings and weaknesses, in the sense that many of the areas it regulates, is given the possibility that the Government should be able to resolve new laws within 90 days or a resolution ministry, and the areas mentioned in this law. I want to ask the minister, since 2000, there's been a very difficult situation at the Ministry of Defense. (Dear Sutanovac: How long ago was it good? ) I'm not saying that it was good, I want to point out that in 2004, there was a violation of a system and an internal organisation of the Ministry of Defence. During the night, 2,000 jobless workers were left, with no executioners left, in the sense of law enforcement when it comes to military obligations. Now, let's say, within one district, a citizen of the sea from Love goes to Valjevo to resolve the issue of military obligations. In that sense, I would like to ask you whether you, given that in the transitional provisions, you have a 90-day deadline to establish the organisation and systematization of jobs, and the principles set out by the Government, given that the military obligation is now returning to the power of the Ministry, will have the possibility of municipalities, i.e. citizens in municipalities, being able to exercise their rights through military obligation, labour obligation, material obligation. Are we going to get perpetrators in smaller areas, not to be damaged, how we were damaged in 2004? It's my appeal, Minister, to you, because you will surely give the citizens one broad opportunity to exercise their rights. If you don't do it and you don't determine such a systematization, we'll certainly have a lot of problems second question, when it comes to the military, in accordance with Article 226 I want to ask you, it's quite a difficult situation for the officers. When it comes to wages, you've filed 20,000 lawsuits. Now there's a certain number of executive lawsuits when it comes to the reception of professional officers. A friend, according to me, is somewhere around a billion euros. Given the situation that is now in the area of finance, what are you going to do in the work of paying back the backlogs and judgments that have been executed by the court, and based on the lawsuits of professional officers? It's about a billion euros in debt. I know it's a difficult situation in the military, and I support it, but here we've been told to cut funds when it comes to the military budget. I support that the funds remain in whatever extent they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12709	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. The remaining speakers are speakers of the SRS, with a time of 67 minutes. I'm really asking you to continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12710	Although I don't understand what you're trying to say, except to demonstrate that you know each other in numbers. I continue with article 136, and I believe that Vojislav Kostunica must also come to explain to the MPs and the public in Serbia what he wants to achieve with these two laws, should there be formal laws that formally, when elected by the President of the Republic, there be someone like the Supreme Commander? That doesn't need the law, because the way he's proposed, he's so stretchy that the best man can do whatever he wants with the army. But the army isn't a private front. That's the problem. I think Vojislav Kostunica must explain to us here how many tons of iron, as tanks and other equipment, melted and where did it melt, at what cost and who earned the money? Then, to answer what is the task of those who run the Military Intelligence Service, should they trade in military property or worry about what they say about challenges and uncertainty? We don't have those answers. The government is wise to remain silent. The laws will be passed to some majority of 126. Of course, the Democrats are interested, they have to be in the O.R., those others who are in the coalition government don't have to be here, because it's not their law anyway, it's DS law. It's a clear message. One man's law. What do we need to answer more? The army has left the border to the police, but the police haven't even gone to the police in four months. How is that possible? A military force is formed in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which is under UN administration, with us and civil service, without weapons and theatre service. Someone is trying to convince us that it is enough just to join NATO and then Serbia is protected. From who? So she's not protected from NATO? NATO has thrown everything out of our army, NATO which was not allowed to enter Kosovo and Metohija, as a sign of revolt, has thrown out everything worth it from our army. Now, you explain to me why someone should send a child to the military academy. As far as the infantry forces are concerned, they are probably at the cobra level, but since they threaten the threat of "Irish Setters" and "wolves", such as that "wolves" at the airport, which jumped to the then Minister Tadic, otherwise, trained dogs to recognize suspicious elements, a man wanted to die and "cobras" to redecorate the dog service. As far as aviation is concerned, we could make this plane's paper and give it to you -- top commanders of the Yugoslav Army and the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12711	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12712	As usual, I am very closely following Parliament's work and I see that it is not clear to Mr. Minister why the MPs address him according to the Rules of Procedure. I saw, Mr. Sutanovac, that you asked Mr. Albianic "what do I think of the Rules of Procedure"? Since Mr Albianic didn't answer you, extremely well-meaningly, you seem to have forgotten, you haven't been an MP so long ago, remember, until the day you voted for yourself to become a minister. Here, I will explain to you very well, that, as a member, we can then have coffee, it is no problem, but now I will explain to you what you should know as a minister, Article 226 of our Rules of Procedure, which allows the MP, as he says here, to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials, etc., not to read any further, because you are the minister. So, any MP here, Mr. Minister, can ask you from your section or from the government's work, whether it has something to do with this agenda or not, it's completely irrelevant. The list pretends to be spoken on the agenda, and this is, when someone is speaking to you in the Rules of Procedure, it is not on the agenda, but the MP thinks that you are the people to answer or call your colleague, to find out the information and to inform the National Assembly and the MP who asks you. Mr. Sutanovac, you're in favour of, as you said, democratic civilian control. Where will you take more democratic civilian control than control in the National Assembly? One more thing I strongly advise you to take care of, behave inappropriately from that place. Take care, you are the minister, we are the National Assembly, the People's MPs. We chose you. Of course I know that you still have a majority that would vote for you, but make sure you have a serious opposition and make sure that the MP from this place, Mr. Minister, can say a few harsh words and can be, if such, and rude, and inappropriate, etc. You, as Minister, can't do that and can't. Think of this as truly well-intentioned, I would not say, criticism, but a reminder of the time you were a member of the Parliament. Be patient and act like a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12713	The People's Messenger Srboljub Zivanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) You can't at the same time, the first speaker I called, so you can. (The Faith of Radeta, from the post: Since the minister was rude, and you did not pay attention. Apology to Mr. Zivanovic, the Rules of Procedure have priority. ) The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12714	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Now I'm critical of your work. Mr. Albianic, you are required, according to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. If you are unable to do so and if you have lost your patience because, as always, you have been left here at the mercy of the people's MPs, your colleagues, it is your problem and you have to resolve it with Mr Oliver Dulic, to ask him where he is now, why he is not in the National Assembly. We can't really help you here, and we won't. You took that job and you did that job. Mr. Bosko Ristic, General Delic, and would not have been here to change Oliver Dulic, and General Delic is in The Hague for your information. Shame on you for being such a pitcher. You're a very rude man. It is known that you and your party are running a treasonous policy. It is known that you are taking the Serbs to The Hague. Madam Radeta, please. Mr. Albianic, when you warn Bosko Ristic, then I will allow you to warn me. If Bosko Ristic can say the ugliest things from his place and you warn me, I won't let you, Mr Albianic. Take care. Look on this side, DS MPs are very impatient that they have to sit for more than 18 hours for days, because they are in a hurry to pass laws, so that the president of parliament does not violate the constitution. It's, of course, their right. First of all, Mr. Albianic, I would like to ask you to look at Mr. Sutanovec from time to time, to see how he reacts, not just before when I spoke, but when any MP from this place says, how he behaves, how he throws, what kind of makeup he makes. Very rude, very inappropriate. The fact that you just had your grandmother advise you, as I just told you, unfortunately, neither your grandmother nor your mother, were able to raise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12715	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, for your suggestions. I'm trying to respect the Rules of Procedure and run the Assembly around the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12716	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, few who as a Serb people have experienced their erosion in the past century, the erosion of humiliation, but few who are at the beginning of the last century with the allies of Europe came to this great military stage, defeating two great empires with allies. But if you look at the end of this century, you see the great sunflower of the Serbian people. You should ask yourself why the Serbian people experienced this great humiliation? He actually lived through the home traitors, thanks to you who, after the October 5th revolution, formed power because you were all spies of the West, all of you were spies of the NATO Pact, all of you were spies of America. It was shown, ladies and gentlemen, when the gentleman, who today is the secretary of defense, was educated in American schools, where he was to study a trade that would actually sell or betray that free Serbian people. If you look at and see the units of the Serbian army today, that's a sad picture, to call it that, the former defence powers we inherited from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the former Yugoslavia. You can only see how determined the budget was for the restoration of that technique. Is this the Partnership for Peace? It's not really a partnership or some kind of organization that would be or share in some kind of defense power. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's actually an organization that requires between six and eight billion dollars that Serbia has to cash in on NATO alliances in order to enter this Partnership for Peace or that it can be upgraded by a certain technical or, to call them, a certain technical innovation in the military. But I can see that they're laughing, so I'd ask Mr. Secretary, and I see Mrs. Hope Kolundji, I don't think she's even read this bill at all, I'd ask what's really important about the pilot, the plane that's supposed to be carrying out their emergency flights, not to say at least once a week or twice? I'm asking you, is there a Serbian air force today? It doesn't exist, Mr. Sutanovac. It doesn't exist because you destroyed it, because in order for people to be technically ready, they have to, I say again, take those emergency flights. If you look at it, but so did Zoran Krasic and he wondered, how many new military techniques have arrived in Serbia today? Nothing's arrived. It's just that we can participate in peace missions, send our children to Afghanistan, Iraq, send them there to be clay pigeons, that's what you stand for today. You advocated the role of the Partnership for Peace so that the international lawsuit against the NATO Alliance, which sowed death in Serbia, could withdraw. That's what you stand for today. You argue that Kosovo and Metohija will quickly, according to you, be separated from Serbia's territory. Because one state, one of these days its limitations are limits. Because if we were to honor this Kumanski Agreement, which was to honor the NATO Alliance, our soldiers were to be found at these borders. So you see for yourself that by putting you as defence minister, a man who had nothing to do but what he was learning in American spy school, the other couldn't really learn anything, or anything to know about military technology and military organization of the work of the military itself. As for ladies and gentlemen, military facilities, I want you to tell me how many military facilities could have been sold today, at what cost, and why today the army lives on the edge of misery, those who serve the Army regularly, these six months spent in barracks? Because many who serve a civil military deadline, they spend up to two hours in hospitals, as Mr Krasic said, washing diapers or doing other jobs. But I'm asking you, do those who serve the Army today have any food, do they have a suit, is everything provided for them? It's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, I see, Mr. Minister, ever since you became Minister, Mr. Sutanovac, you've improved, you've grown fat, your food is nice, that soldier food is probably a good army bean you're using. You must know that you have achieved a great erosion in the military today because you want to humiliate it, to bring it to the degree you have led it to, because you have actually allowed this Partnership for Peace that Serbia is a enslaved country, that NATO units can pass through it, that can make any evil and not respond to the Criminal Law of Serbia, but under the law of their country. I'm sure you know very quickly, since you're going to get off the political scene, the destruction of the army will stop, what was once the most sacred, which is what Serbia was proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12717	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12718	Unlike my predecessor, who has made widely accepted findings in the people and the good part of the political public in Serbia, I will call on Article 136 and inform Mr Kostunica and the public what everything should contain the reasoning of these draft laws. I'd like to ask the viewers who are monitoring this transmission to take sugar and water, because here's one reason why the defense law is passed. It is said like this -- at the same time, it provides for the harmonisation of defence and security rules with European Union regulations and widely accepted international legal standards. Could Vojislav Kostunica explain what this sentence means? What are the European Union's standards? NATO? The European Union is taking our Kosovo and Metohija, what would we agree with it? These are all some pearls standing with us. In army law, they went one step further, so they said, thanks to this bill, if it was adopted in the National Assembly, we'd get a professional army. Are you saying our army isn't professional? He says we'll get a modern and educated army. Well, I don't know, our military academy was one of the best, many from abroad came to us to study, to acquire basic military skills. What new knowledge and abilities should they get in the military academy if she's not busy by the president while swimming in the pool? What's with all this paper here? Why doesn't Vojislav Kostunica come out here, explain to us what's going on, what's epochal, what's new? When it comes to the proposal for a defence law, it is stated that they should act and what measures should be taken by the competent state authorities and all authorities in the defence system. Is that what we have? If it doesn't exist, then who destroyed it. Well, you know, for seven years, our army was led by a finance minister. He says, a certain percentage of gross social product can be allocated to the military, our social product is low, not meeting the elemental needs. What is this international standard? The Netherlands is increasing the number of soldiers, and as far as I know, she's not threatened by anyone. It has a very good environment, everyone in the European Union, and they increase the number of soldiers. What's the international standard with you? What's this about? It is about what we should be left without any military and any possibility of defence in order to be in the NATO Pact, and then they would pay dearly for their protection, and it would not be a protection, but would be an occupation and conquest of the Republic of Serbia because, for God's sake, Serbs are a people who rebel. The Serbs are not a rebel people, but a Serb people who only love their freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12719	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are considering a package of two laws. The legislative proposal on defence basically gives little rights and authority to the National Assembly of Serbia, a little more to the government, and the greatest rights it gives to the President of the Republic, just as it was written for the current president of the Republic. In addition to this general remark, several members require special consideration. Article 10 discusses the declaration of war in case the National Assembly of Serbia cannot meet. She cannot meet only in case Tadic makes a request to Mr. Dulic not to call her, otherwise she will definitely meet. And to remind you, in all countries, it is mandatory to keep the National Assembly in session in crisis situations. her parliament will be in a permanent session. Article 10 should state that the National Assembly is making a decision on the mobilization of the military, and the whole state, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, but also on the proposal of one-third of the MPs, so let most MPs decide properly. The proposed members shall be subject to the decision of the National Assembly. A very serious problem arises regarding the legal proposal on mobilization. The current crisis in the Balkans, as well as beyond, raises a very important issue of Serbia's defence force. In addition to the particularly harmful activities of all current defence ministers after the October 5th mafia-terrorist coup, from Tadic to Sutanovac, to devalue Serbia's military resources through the criminal destruction of weapons, weapons, missiles, missiles and ammunition, as well as the question of whether the case in Paracino was truly accidental, and the shameful introduction and broad application of so-called. However, in Serbia today there are about half a million military capable people who have been adequately trained in military skills in the former times in the third army in Europe. Moreover, several hundred thousand people gained very significant combat experiences during the accidents that the Serb people had suffered. If our country is in danger and the law provides for mobilization in Serbia, whether there are enough adequate reserves of weapons, tools, missiles, missiles and ammunition to arm mobilized patriots. There is no such thing in the proposed law, and it is necessary. Many members, for example in Article 29, talk about regional organisation and action in defence. It is very similar to the infamous republican armies, which led to the collapse of the SFRY. It is necessary in all places in this legislative proposal to explicitly say that all these activities are strictly subordinated to one centre, whose orders are 100% carried out, and not to carry out activities in accordance with the plan of defence of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Who decides what is in harmony. Furthermore, let's say in article 40 there is talk about the use of the Serbian Army outside Serbia's territory. Does this mean Afghanistan, Iraq, in the future perhaps Iran, Venezuela, maybe even Cuba? Many NATO members don't fight there, there's nothing our army can do to search outside the territory of our republic. In Article 21, point 11, we are talking about the use of our airports and others for the needs of foreign military aircraft. This falls within the jurisdiction of the Ministry. In our Serbia, it's a very dangerous attitude. Does this mean that it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense that our airports are used for aggressive terrorist air strikes against other countries. That neither Turkey, as a faithful NATO member, has allowed in the course of terrorist aggression against Iraq. If point 11 is necessary, Article 21 should be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia for actions under the auspices of the United Nations Security Council. With regard to Article 27, where a material obligation is treated, it is necessary to issue bonds to citizens, i.e. certificates or the like, in order to make up for the costs or possible damage to them later, so that what is happening today in Toplička County does not happen. Article 76, for example, provides for funding for NGOs. Apparently, if their work programme is based on what's important for the defense. Does that mean funding the movement for so-called. non-violent changes or ex-Resistance and similar to other foreign agents. There's still a lot of shortages in this law. We'll talk about it according to the amendments. Let me look back on the Army bill. Any objections to the Defence Act may also apply to this bill. Still, there are some specific elements. Article 51 states that members of the army acting outside the country have different military IDs. Is that NATO, US, or what? Article 59 states that a military person may receive a temporary and higher rank while acting under Article 51. It is likely to be repainted from U.S. provisions, where even civilians, scientists, experts, are temporarily placed in even very high ranks, generals with multiple stars, while performing very significant actions within the U.S. military. When the job is done, those high-ranking acts are taken away. Article 194 speaks of non-Citizens. How is that even possible? It is true that there are today high-ranking officials, ministers, governors, etc. with dual citizenship, Djelic, Jelasic etc. and some ministers who have received Serbian citizenship in return, but are not allowed to do so in the military. Even volunteers, foreign citizens, exist in the military only while the military is at war. Another unresolved issue, in Article 5(4), paragraphs 5 and 5, and in some other members, an active reserve is introduced and treated. Also, another piece of evidence that the bill was written in agreement with the United States, modeling the U.S. National Guard. Let me remind you, in the United States, members of the National Guard have not so many obligations, but very high privileges, wages, scholarships for schooling, etc., but they were unpleasantly surprised when many of them were sent to war in Iraq, and now it is planned that part of the National Guard also go to Iraq as a replacement. So far the solutions to this matter are far better. One very significant remark, in the proposed law, there is no more division of officers, more officers and generals. In almost all the armies in the world, so far and in ours, it's necessary to pass so-called officers to cross over. Major's exam, a very difficult exam that provides an impartial selection for high-ranking officers. Even the word "major" in many languages means "higher, bigger." To move to the general, it was necessary to attend and pass exams in the so-called War school, very hard work for two years. For certain profiles, the Master's degree has been recognised as a major exam, and the doctorate of science for the rank of general. What's he giving up for? Is it to allow some to advance quickly by four acts of war, and it is known to happen in the military? The current bill really allows too much bias. In the end, Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. I've already set them up, but you weren't there, so now I'm taking this opportunity. Does the Department of Defense pay VAT on the MiG 29 aircraft remounted, under contract with the Public Enterprise "Yugoimport SDPR"? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) ) Has 320 million been paid so far on this basis? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I don't know.) ) Second question, is the procurement of telecommunications equipment for Serbia's Army entrusted to this public enterprise - SDPR, under the pretext that it is a confidential purchase, in order to avoid a public tender - and only this year, the amount of 900 million funds? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: No. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12721	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a bill on defence and a bill on Serbia's Army. Unfortunately, I must note that what we have today is not an army in the sense that it is known by the Serb military tradition. What we have today is, first of all, the remains of the former army, a decimated group we still call the army today. To keep the army exactly as I said, no one else took care of Mr. Boris Tadic, first as defence minister, and later, as you yourself know, as president of the Republic and commander of the army. I have noticed, and perhaps it would be better if these two laws were discussed today in a single debate, that the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic and the proposal for an army law was discussed in a single debate, because both of them were written ad personam, which they will say, according to the character and the name of Mr Boris Tadic. Tadic cared about commanding the army, even with that army he destroyed himself. He doesn't care what size he is or what kind of army he is. It's important, and it's important enough that this army has an asset, that it has a defense, that it has a guard that will salute it when it takes off and lands from the Sursino airport. Of course, you are in a great hurry with this law, but not for the sake of the military and not for the sake of defence, but for the sake of the presidential elections, because someone told you that if elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia are discussed as soon as possible, then President Tadic has some chance of winning those elections. What our people say is not to whom it is intended, but to whom it is meant, which they will say - you have done for free, as Serbian President is Mr Tomislav Nikolic and everyone in Serbia knows it. You said, Minister, the law is good. The law is not good, but Mr Nikolic, as president of Serbia, will not use all the privileges you have given Boris Tadic. Let's get back to the law itself. Like all your laws, this law is full of indeterminateness, illogicality, contradictions, etc. For example, Article 3(1) says - Serbia's Army General Staff is the highest professional and staff member to prepare and use Serbia's Army in peace and war. Item 3 of this same article practically analyzes this law. So the government is given some kind of authority for which it is not professional and the defence minister is also not professional, because they are primarily civilian persons. You know, it often happens that a defence minister can be a person who didn't serve the military, could be a woman, and what will these persons suggest to the government when it comes to professional matters? The point of all this is that, instead of the minister of this matter provided for by law, the government is proposed by various advisers, nameless advisers, who stem from various Atlantic integrations, which are hostile both to the state of Serbia and to the Serbian people. Article 5 refers to an active and passive reserve. I have to admit, I've spoken to a lot of professional military personnel and none of them to the end is clear what an active and passive reserve is. This law provides for disproportionate jurisdiction when it comes to the President of the State, the Government and the General Staff themselves. The law also abolishs the Supreme Defence Council and thus gives a huge authority to the president of the state, and there is no control. Through the bill, the military is placed unnecessaryly under the additional control of various civil organisations, which have nothing to do with the government or anything, and will not surprise me if one moment the military doctrine of the Republic of Serbia writes Natasa Kandic and similar to her, sign signs, give medals and everything else. Article 12 states that the military is ideological, interesting and party neutral. It is certainly not under this law, because according to this law, the very party that has the President of the Republic has absolute influence and absolute domination over the military. I wonder, how will this army work with this kind of thing? To finish slowly, Article 20 provides for the formation of a subofficer's crust. Is this how the army becomes a standing army, and the officers, as one essential element of each army, are being released from that system? As I said and to finish, the huge impact of the various NGOs on the military is, and if everything is in the light of the fact that only those administrative and technical affairs remain -- the award of medals, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12723	Thank you. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic. The total remaining time for the SRS parliamentary group is 40 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12724	Thank you, I'll be very brief. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking for a notice and an explanation, there's no direct connection to this subject, but there are indirect ones, from the Minister for the KIM and the Prime Minister. Here's the thing. It's a situation that's very alarming. Namely, the KIM Co-ordination Centre, the Peć municipality co-ordinator's Office, based in Gorazdevec, sent a letter to the KIM Ministry on November 19th, which is the subject of the report. It says this - we'll let you know it's 17. 11. In 2007, it was the office's working day because it was due to do the day off before the new year and to observe the polling post, opened in Gorazdevec, and for the Kosovo elections. The polling station was watched continuously during 7-21 hours. In total, it entered the polling post, not perhaps grammatically correct, and voted 18 Serbian nationalities from the village of Gorazdevac, and then numbered people, among other things the party's belongings are listed. These are, if this report is credible, but if the reports show that Petrovic Slobodan, vice-president of the DS Municipal Committee, several members, then Dakic Slavko, chairman of the DS Municipal Committee, members of the Municipal Committee and members of the DS. Most of the 18 names are 14 members of DS or 13, for the remaining four or five names there is no indication which party. It's not funny, it's very dangerous what it says at the end of this. I'll tell you who signed it. It was stamped. He says: "As the position of the Serbian-Serbian Orthodox Church state is not to go to these elections, we believe that these citizens are working against their state by going out to Kosovo elections and that the state should sanction them. '' Signed and certified by the principled Pećko Management District of Milisav Petrovic and signed by the co-ordinator for the municipality of Pec Radojko Dakic. It's an invitation to the lynch. It's not naive at all, but there's something else. This is an invitation from the MUP, the Police Administration for Kosovo Mitrovica, the Criminal Police Department, the call for the lady, according to that universal call by the citizen or citizen Janačković Olga, her data, home number, etc., to collect information, informative conversation. This was signed by the authorized official Bogoljub Vukojevic. I tried to find out what the reason was. Apparently, this lady is receiving some scholarship from some budget at the Kosovo government. But the problem isn't even that, it's something else - Resolution 1244, in which some swear as if it's the gospel, it's the most important thing in the world. This is completely contrary to Resolution 1244 - the functioning of the Ministry of Interior at KIM. So it's either not good Resolution 1244, or it's not recognised, or this is a flagrant abuse. (President: Time. Here, I'm done. But citizens share, what we keep saying, in Kosovo, and it's dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12725	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger Otto Kishmarton be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try, in accordance with the time I have at my disposal, to point out some shortcomings in the proposed laws. Although I'm going to put the focus of my exposure on this second proposal, which is the law of the army. Generally, we are first missing those strategic documents, which should define some strategic things and, then, should come out of these laws that are ahead of us. In fact, we don't have a national security strategy and a defence strategy. I think it's something that's older than this and that we should have adopted it first, and only then do we go to the adoption of these laws that are today. But it is obvious that the promoter had the intention to at least formally fulfil some of the obligations he has under the current rules -- so that the presidential elections in Serbia would be announced as soon as possible. Just to remind you it's an example. Croatia adopted a defence strategy nearly five years ago, and Serbia is not there today. What is clearly seen from this proposal of the military law and, of course, from the law on defence is that the goal of this government, which is today leading Serbia, is to carry out a full professionalisation of the army in some future period. Unfortunately, we do not see from these documents what time you want to achieve it, and that is the question that needs to be resolved by this defence strategy, so we know how long the Serbian Army will be fully professional, or when the service of that military obligation that we have so far been present will be abolished. Also, in general, the role of the president of the state, but particularly the role of the defence minister, has been overemphasized here. Somehow, the General Staff and the Chief of Staff, as a professional person, remained on the side of the leadership and command, and the defence minister was given much more authority and a much greater role than it belonged to. The defence minister is most often a civilian, who doesn't even have to be a member of the military service, a military obligation, so such a person will come to the post of defence minister and it will play a very active and significant role in the leadership and command of the military. We think that it is not good and that it cannot be accepted, or that it must be arranged in some other way. Furthermore, the proposal is formally incorrect and it appears here in several members. We've tried some amendments to make it right. We don't know if they've been accepted and how much of it has been accepted, but it's a general feature of all the proposals coming from this government -- that they're formally incorrect. Finally, as the last general remark, it is - the indeterminateness of the proposal for these laws, i.e. some other regulations that should be passed at least at the same time with these or be an integral part of these regulations. We do not now have the military obligation law, but we are referring to the existing old law, so we will exploit some of the provisions of that law, use it further, until those provisions are passed. We don't have regulations, or social, pension and disability insurance laws. So that's what we should do, and we don't see anywhere here in these proposals -- how much it's worth and how long it's going to be here in front of the MPs, so we've got this matter completely rounded up. I'm going to try to point out just a few provisions of this law at this point, so we'll probably talk more broadly about it. First, as regards Article 2, where the situation is discussed, especially the Serbian Army, in the second position, it is said that the President of the Republic of Serbia, himself or the person he has authorised, can allow the use of the Serbian Army to solve some internal problems. Now I'm asking a question here and I'd like to ask the minister to listen to this because I'm interested in answering these questions and some of the dilemmas that I have here. Does this mean that the minister or president of Serbia will approve the use of Serbia's army in the arrest of, say, Hague indictees? It will. If that's what it is, it will, it's inadmissible, Minister. Serbia's army should protect the sovereignty, integrity of this state, not chase and arrest those people indicted by The Hague court. Furthermore, as for the use of the Serbian Army beyond Serbia's borders in some missions, we are against it, of course, but while you are in power we will not allow you and we will try to prevent you from doing it as you imagined. We'll ask that it be resolved here in the Assembly, not by law, but by individual acts in any particular case. Article 10 discusses civilian persons serving in the Serbian Army, and they are now declaring themselves military officials and tenants. I'd like to ask you what's going on, there's no mention here of the hospitality-tourism part of the army, or a military facility like Tara, like Vrnjakba and others, what's their further status, do you have in that strategy and, if you have a bar in your heads, do you have a solution for this part of the army? Article 14 discusses the ban on military party membership in political parties, which is, of course, clear, okay and acceptable. But, he says, it is forbidden for a military person to attend political gatherings in uniform. Does that mean he can attend without a uniform? I think that's inadmissible. A military face must not attend these gatherings without uniform or uniform. What's a big surprise is a provision that says union organization is allowed. It's never been, I think it's a bad solution. Whether it's by the Constitution or not, it doesn't matter, it's a bad solution to allow it in the military. Article 15 speaks of an oath, and I would ask the question of what kind of oath do the persons who serve the civilian army and do they even take an oath? The second objection refers to the text of the oath. Sometimes when we were in the army, we swore with our lives, and today they swear honor, as it stands in this oath of yours. What an honor it is, our army today. A member of the 24th Day of War. Why is this law not defined at least this holiday of the Serbian Army? Why is it not simply in this law some date that is important for the military, on which we can call, from our tradition, adopted as an army day, and that we define this by this law, and not that it remains for other regulations and that someone else decides on it, means that this assembly decides on it. The 32nd article speaks of service in the Serbian Army and the question is, when will this service law be passed in the Serbian Army, on military obligation? Do you know, and you know probably, that 50% of our children who are military bonds serve civil today? Tell me, what are their obligations after serving such a military term? What's their war schedule and do they have it after all? How can those who serve at all tomorrow, God forbid that they fit into a machine and resist if they don't take a rifle in their hands? Article 39 - admission to the professional military service for post officers and officers; it is said of the admission of a citizen to these places, there is no obligation as a condition to serve a military term with a weapon. I think that's necessary. If that's necessary for a professional soldier, it should be for both the officer and the officer. That's not what law says. This is about people from the public. So you can join the military service professionally at the post of officer and officer man who didn't finish the academy. So he's graduated from college, economically, legally or otherwise, and he can be admitted as such to military service. Article 42 - acceptance contract for professional military service. This is about the reception of these persons under contract for a certain time, three years, etc. There is one formal error: one attitude says it is up to three years, and the other says that the contract is made for three years. It has to be fixed. The terms of the contract must be defined by law. It happened, you know, in 1998 in Nis that a battalion of military police, professionals, was supposed to travel, or go on a mission to Kosovo, simply came and broke contracts. How are we going to make sure of that tomorrow in the event of a war, that professional soldiers don't come to us and say, gentlemen, we're returning the contracts, we're no longer interested in this. How are we going to oblige them to be loyal to this country and carry out these tasks in a state of war? Gentlemen, patriotism must be built from family, from school to military and to every other institution in this country. Without that patriotism, no contract will be valid, valid and will not provide us and ensure that tomorrow someone will defend us from some aggression. To say in the end that the profession, so the people who have done their duty to this country honorably, said that this is not good and that even amendments to this proposal cannot be corrected. That's why we as a party can't vote for this when it's voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12727	The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton has the word, and let the MP Jadranko Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12728	Dear Members of Parliament, dear friends, this law shows that our army is not preparing for the defence of the country, this law shows that the army is preparing for peacekeeping missions outside Serbia's borders. The destruction of the army continues. The destruction of the Serbian army began with the ministry of Boris Tadic, who is the current president of the yellow and unfortunately president of the Republic of Serbia. What was the mission? The defence minister's task since 2001: to destroy our state's defence system and reduce the military's combat preparedness. How? How do we reduce the military's battlepower? It's simple, talking about modernising the military. That story is acceptable to a people who love their army. What happened in practice? Modernisation involves buying new weapons. What's been bought? Nothing. What's been destroyed? That's a lot. All tanks T55, PVO hull system, Arrow 2M, abolished all units of classification that are irreplaceable in the defense war. Secondly, Tadic "killed" the recruiting obligation of young people, introducing a civilian service to the army that "killed" the units, because there is no army without soldiers. He evens out soldiers with nurses in health care homes in nursing homes. Soldiers serve their military time by changing diapers to babies, and we know it's an army for men and for women to have children. Third, Tadic achieved the goal, expelled the best professional officers, generals who successfully led units against NATO activists. He brought officers and generals into the army who are related to the Democratic Party or are in a relationship with them or family members. Fourthly, the training system in the army was reduced to training individuals to the department. No combined training, no practical training of officers, but that's why there's English language learning. Officers are preparing not to defend the country but to participate in peacekeeping missions, which is in fact legalising vassality towards NATO. No one thinks they're defending the country and taking your territory. That was Tadic's job. Fifth, underestimation of an officer's call. In fact, an officer's call is underestimated by a poor standard of officer, a poor picture of the army, created the reluctance of young people to make an officer's call. The best students, the best youngsters used to go to military academy, and today the average students are assigned to the military academy. From a strong and prominent army, Tadic made NATO servants in just seven years. I hope, finally, that our future President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, will have great pains to restore the reputation that belongs to our army.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12729	Thank you. The People's MP Jadranko Vukovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Vukelić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will state my party's position against the involvement of members of the military in UN peacekeeping missions. The first reason is that the UN service is the United States and we should not participate in these missions until they really become the UN in the original sense. Secondly, the UN Security Council has approved an aggression against our country under the influence of the United States. Third, the UN Security Council, also under the influence of the United States, established a court to prosecute Serbs, or The Hague tribunal. Fourthly, the UN contributed to the revision of the Dayton Agreement, where the survival of the Republic of Serbia was at stake. Fifthly, the UN does not contribute to the respect of Resolution 1244 and did not allow the return of the military and police to Kosovo and Metohija, even if it is symbolic. The sixth, when we are invited to be observers and participants of a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija, then we will consider all other offers. Seven, they're bringing us into conflict with Muslim countries, and we don't need that for any more reason. What are they looking for, Mr. Minister, three observers, except to be a participant and to be a participant, and that we are responsible for everything that happens there. My conclusion is that this should not be accepted, because we will have more damage than benefits, and above all they are the principal reasons, because they are taking our territory under the auspices of the UN, behind which the United States stands. That's the first question I wanted to talk to you about tonight. Secondly, Mr. Minister, today we discussed on the Committee on Defence and Security the July 18th 2005 agreement, which was ratified in the Serbia-Montenegro community, and it is about transit arrangements to support peace operations. The agreement of 18 July 2005, I want to talk about it for the simple reason that we will have to discuss its progress in this House. This agreement, which has seen it, and many of you have been in that parliament of the Serbia-Montenegro community, so it will be clear to you, is at least an agreement, because there is an obvious inequality of the parties. At the very least, NATO's agreement does not have any obligations or restrictions, even to respect UN Resolution 1244. Under the agreement, military and civilian personnel under contract can go through the entire territory without the right to ask or subject to domestic laws. It means that they can drive both radioactive material, poison and other harmful substances and that they can kidnap, beat and rape without responding to our laws, because total immunity is agreed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in light of the bill on this ratification, it is said that such an agreement is based on a strategy of defence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and that this shows readiness for the Partnership for Peace. The very strategy of the state community, which you are sure to know about, provides for involvement in international associations. However, there is no capitulation, at least there is no explicit writing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Partnership for Peace, as the first step in joining NATO, is exactly a specific programme of activities, where exactly the roles of both sides are defined. Before that partnership, we got an occupation, so it turns out that the enslaved will be equal partners. I would vote for this agreement if, under the same conditions, our army could go through America and other NATO countries, just to announce itself and to pay no one anything, and to answer no one. This would be equal, i.e. a partnership. Mr. Secretary, in the end, I want to tell you, since as a member of the Defence and Security Committee I was in Brussels at the NATO Centre, I spoke to their generals. I see that there is a place waiting for us because you probably announced that Serbia wants to join NATO. What? They were very pleasant. Do you know what's interesting? We were there and they said like this. They say -- who are those who were three times before you, but, seriously, Mr. Minister, this is how it was. We say, who was it? It was Shormaz, I don't know which one of the ruling ones, right? He says they kept quiet all the time. And believe me, I found it very interesting. We've been communicating very correctly. Of course, we Serbian radicals have sharply criticised what it is to criticise. But what's interesting is I tell you, when we walked into the center there with an American general, you know where his seat is, they took away our cell phones. It's a very equipped center, a building. However, as they lectured us, we end up with a Romanian general. Romania has entered the NATO alliance. That Romanian, with all due respect, is seen, poor, poor, dressed, placed there somewhere at the end of the centre in a barracks, showing us where, unfortunately, my last name Vukovic gave him an office from Montenegro. They say this is where your office will be in that same barracks. I ask the Romanian general - what is your motive, what have you achieved, since he complained that there are still three seats for members of the Romanian army at the NATO centre. He says there's three more places, I don't know what duty, but my country doesn't have the money to pay for it. I say to him, "General, what our motive would be to enter that alliance, since we've been bombed, our aviation has been destroyed, our country has been destroyed." And he says, "They all are, so must you." I say, "How can we be partners, we don't have any MiG 29s?" Here, now Minister Sutanovac is fixing some planes. Of course, that's what we told him. He says, "It doesn't matter that you have nothing, I know that you are destroyed. In NATO, you can have a moving workshop, so you can fix something that's broken." This is what I'm serious about. Mr. Sutanovac, so we go in there, it's ugly to say, maybe we're cleaning boots for the American general. I think it's humiliating. In the end, Mr. Sutanovac, it is about the Partnership for Peace and NATO Integration. I don't know if you're familiar with this, and this has been serious so far, but this is the most serious thing about aviation, to see how the criteria changed. NATO is receiving without any conditions. The average annual pilot flight is 3.5 hours, and the global NATO standard is 180 to 240 hours a year. Here, the Shooter says he's up to 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12731	The word is from the MP Nikola Vukelic. The total time for the SRS Parliament Club is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I can't look back on the vote we had before the debate on these defence laws and the military began. It was simply amazing that the ruling coalition refused for the second time to put on the agenda a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the necessity of respect for the constitutional rights of the Serb people in BiH and condemnation of acts and measures aimed at limiting and abolishing the state-lawful prerogatives of Republika Srpska. Is it possible that, at times when the Serb people in Republika Srpska suffer the greatest possible pressure from various European high representatives, who question the status of Serbs as a constituent people in BiH, this is not a priority for the ruling coalition, and not even the topic that deserves to be discussed in the National Assembly. Indeed, it is illogical and contradictory that the debate on the proposal for a Law on the Army and the Proposal for a Law on Defence is united. We know that the basic function of the army is to defend the country. However, since the defence minister has repeatedly declared that the military will not react in any case in Kosovo and Metohija, the question is what is actually the function of the military. It was necessary to separate the debate because the defence law should have shown who would defend the country if, God forbid, needed, since what was left of the military since it was dominated by DOS, it obviously won't and has no intention, at least not as long as it's under DS and Boris Tadic's control. Serbia is not in a position to threaten anyone, but it's crazy to let the Shyptarian terrorists know in advance that they can do whatever they want. Kosovo and Metohija are not the subject of internal conflicts in Serbia, but if it is an indisputable state interest for our remaining Serb people to remain in Kosovo and Metohija, what kind of message is being sent to him by DOS authorities. Nothing but that, practically, he was left to the mercy of the Ship's terrorists and their mentors from one part of the so-called. international communities. Many of those who now take away Kosovo and Metohija from us at all costs, by DOS earlier have been represented as Serbia's great friends. Some of these friends, for example, are dear George, as George Bush, the president of the state most fire in favour of kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija, still calls Serbia's incumbent President Boris Tadic; or Javier Solana, who, after the crime against our people, was welcomed here in Belgrade by a red carpet after October 5th. Today, this friend of yours, whom you have received so warmly, is doing everything to literally steal our land, exactly 15 percent of our territory. The 15 percent is constantly mentioned, but it would be terrible if one percent and 15 per cent had passed. At these crucial moments of salvation and support, we can only expect from friends, from friendly and true brotherly Russia, Russia, whose role you from DOS only mocked a few years ago, glorifying your alleged friends from the West. Today, the struggle of the Serbian people for Kosovo and Metohija continues exclusively thanks to Russia's support, headed by its president, Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin. You accused us of Serbian radicals in Serbia of wanting to turn Serbia into a Russian governor, and after October 5th, you turned us into an American colony and now, as faithful subjects, you want to push our army to die into so-called. Peace missions, humanitarian interventions in Iraq and Afghanistan, for American interests. We have an absurd situation that our government has no intention of protecting our people in Kosovo and Metohija, but it wants to send our army to die for other people's interests, in human interventions, such as the "merciful Angel", during which our country was destroyed, to create a terrorist Shipage State under the NATO Pact Patronate. The NATO pact that Boris Tadic and DS are trying to get us into. Indeed, it will remain for historical anals that the defence minister in the Serbian Parliament says it advocates joining NATO the moment America breaks up our country and robs our territory. You put your finger directly around Russia and then you still have the nerve to call for Russia's support after all. The moment will stop, the moment will be nearer when Serbia will be able to choose between outgoing Serbian President Boris Tadic, NATO Pact and dear George, on the one hand, and true friends in the world, true patriot Tomislav Nikolic, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12733	The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will be almost nine hours and, as well as my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, at the beginning of my presentation, that all for the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission and who should be well informed when we are considering these two laws in a united debate, that the debate had to be separate and that every law is being considered separately, in order to correct, correct or adjust, but gentlemen from the ruling coalition always want to bring something in quick and this. Serbian citizens today more than ever know who is who, who is what and who has done what, especially since 2000. We must agree that the reform of our army is really necessary, but there is no room for indifference, ignorance and surface. The military is a very complex and specific mechanism, and therefore these two system laws are very important, and as such they do not suffer the rapid, insecure, large, and particularly the sub-frontier reform under the pretext - the army of a new spirit and image. These laws were written by some new trained civilians, and even the laymen of the Ministry of Defence, with the affirmation of personnel "skilled" officers on top of their duties, instead of, above all, the most capable war commanders of strategic and operational compositions. As of today, the Serbian Army is at a loss of usable resources, weapons and equipment are obsolete or almost unusable, and with severe torment, they are thus maintained in the right state. A particular problem is the evident lack of professional and older staff. Military academy and other high-school military schools end up with fewer and fewer officers. Why is that and what the team is covering, we can only assume. When we talk about seniors, with high school, they're almost gone, and we're wondering whether even those with one year's course or one year's school can replace quality early ones. We must conclude the following, Mr. Minister, you retired a number of officers, replaced even extremely capable warlords, as if you were ashamed of them. Such high-ranking army officers of other countries, you will agree with me, which you seek to keep in their units as mandatory advisers because of a unique experience in the war. If you want names, I can't right now, I think you listened well to Tomislav Nikolic in the afternoon, when he told you – if you want names, you will get names, not today, one of these is also Serbian Parliament Vice-President General Bozidar Delic. The minister throws, I know the minister doesn't have the right to throw away, but I'm able to communicate and do replicas with him. To repeat, such officers, which you have replaced and retired, the other armies retain in their units as mandatory advisers because of a unique experience in the war. Are there any better experts than them? There isn't. In fact, the opposite is happening, newly educated and military anonymouss, unfortunately, are given the most responsible functions in the military by political likeness and personnel decisions. What about finance, military financing and armed forces? All on a spoon, as if the army were a pastor of the state. In your ideology of military reform since 2000, there has been a slight shift in the tradition and apathy in which our military is presently located. That's exactly the kind of army you're offering in peace missions, both in Afghanistan and in other countries, all under the cloak to supposedly raise our country's reputation in the world. I will remind both you and the MPs, of course, and the citizens of Serbia who have been closely following this transmission, which is what it has actually been since the DOS was in this form or that since 2000. Ladies and gentlemen, the former Secretary of Defense is a pathologist by profession. It's a special bison in world practice. Even though he's acting as a backup general, he's primarily a doctor. This profession does not, as a rule, determine the scope for command or military political functions. We are witnessing that nothing has changed in that time, except that another pearl is added in that series of pearls. Let's move on, the Chief of General Staff is from the Technical Service, which never happened anywhere, since these places are being placed and determined by the generals of key families, i.e. The visions of the army. In the near past, the minister's assistant for political defence was a woman who was allegedly formerly engaged in the military, and by close profession, imagine the respected citizens of Serbia as a ballerina. And that's true. The truth is that one of the counsellors of the Secretary of Defense did not serve the army at all. I also have to mention the famous G 17 plus minister, who was replaced by the same one because of a famous affair about the purchase of military equipment and the inflating of the single prices of the same equipment. It's terrible, but it's true. All of this above is that man doesn't believe and we wonder what kind of professional human mutilation is, so man just doesn't believe it. What are these acrobatics and insecures? Is that all under the army reform firm? We could, ladies and gentlemen, list a lot of negativity in various segments when we talk about this topic. This image of our army is so sad that someone would have to answer for such a tragic condition, Mr. Minister, in our army. Our people know that despite the difficult state of the country, our Serb army must not fall on a beggar stick, but that it must, in difficult conditions, be a mirror of the pride and honor of the state and the nation. In the end, since there's probably no time left, and everything about this relationship, I have to underline, the question arises which of these benefits is in perspective, and the state and nations are dangerous and irreparable damage? That's what we need to take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12735	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask the president, the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12736	Mr. Dulic, I know you're in a hurry, as both Tadic and Kostunica are in a hurry, you have a farewell visit from Carla del Ponte. I hope there's gonna be tears. Mr. Dulic, respecting the Rules of Procedure, Article 136. What's this about? Here, for several months now, or to be more precise since I've concluded somehow this government of Dossmanian unity, we've had the opportunity to hear from that same government two conflicting opinions. We had the opportunity to hear the opinion of the godfather's lobby, NATO Lobby -- Serbia is the place in the NATO Pact. There's no alternative. If he has to, he's got to step on everything, we'll make a new one if he needs an army, from the ashes and then on. We have another, also a stronger coalition partner in that government. I just remind you, about a month ago Aligrudic and these bullulments were in the Republic Square sharing some pamphlets – Serbia's neutral state. Now, who out of the blue two laws without any concept, written in a way that meets certain needs. What needs? Which side? Less or more yellow? Democratic or DSS? But you saw for yourself, there's no fight between them in the government. Such a great principled difference did not cause the government to fall. Why? Because both concepts are the same. Like when you take the dinar and throw it up, the dinar will be and when it falls down, whether it's the letter, whether it's the head, whatever. So NATO's concept of the Democratic Party and the neutral concept of the Democratic Party of Serbia is the same. What's the same thing? If Serbia had no armed forces capable of safeguarding the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. That's the whole story. You've seen, he's happy, poor thing. He's looking forward to it, poor man, that we won't have an army, that he won't be commander of the army. Of course, I expect the high-minded thinking of the military's leadership. As far as I can tell, these two are more understood in the election than in the Army, as members of the RIK, but there's some prey. You must know that the Army is the richest man in this country, but also the poorest. Big real estate, big property, but depends on the finance minister or on this one for regional development and economy, what's it called, this one that promises to hire 500 grand in 5, 6, 7 years? He thinks that's how much he'll be in power. There won't be another two months. So there's no difference with coalition partners and it would be really good about this serious topic if Mr. Kostunica came down from the cloud, said goodbye to Carla del Ponte, came and explained here. Of course, I only expect Mr. Sutanovac to tell me if there was a really retired house in Nis that was attacked by Defence Minister Boris Tadic, because the dog was in the machine, saw a face, recognized the enemy and jumped onto Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12737	According to the Rules of Procedure, Radisa Ilic's MP came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 226. On Friday, I also reported to the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately, I have to do so now, given that the reason I went out on Friday was in some way the responsibility of the defence minister, and in connection with what is currently going on in Paracino, in the village of July 7th, where the military facility is located and where unexploded funds are currently being destroyed, which spread around the area after the explosion of the warehouse on October 19th, 2006. Now, I'm asking Mr. Minister publicly, has he been informed of what is currently going on in Turkey and Paracina due to the uncontrollable destruction of these funds? You are directly responsible for the immediate threat of around 20,000 people in Turkey, Paracina and the surrounding villages. Did the presidents of the Paracino municipalities, otherwise the man president of the municipality from your party, and from Cupre, inform you of the day-to-day extremely strong detonations coming out of all possible normal frameworks. What kind of minister are you when you put people's lives, their children's lives and their property in such a way? Now I trust you completely that you're associated with the NATO Pact, because that's how the NATO Pact acted in 99. There have been new damages to the facilities of people in Turkey and Paracino. People keep calling us on the phone. I got six calls today. I'll read you the specific names of the people who've had the damage. Zoran Ilic, Minel settlement, Cuprija - cracked all his glass; Stošić Novko, Čupria - cracked the walls; Stojanović Stanko - cracked the ceiling at the technical school in Čupria towards Paracino; Milorad Ilic, Minel settlement - cracked all his glass. Kids, believe me, they're running to the basements. It's just that no one can sit next to the shaded surfaces anymore. Here I have a list of faces, the closing number is 2,473, so the list of faces, it's funny to you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, and 2,500 people didn't smell the damage caused by the explosion. It's your behavior that brings new damage to the objects of people in gurri and Paracino. To finish, the SRS committee group in Paracino asked the president of the municipality if he had any information as to why this was happening, why the detonations were getting stronger and stronger. Of course, the president of the municipality gave him information, now, whether or not that information was given to him by one of you from the ministry, and the information is this: the detonations are strong because more deadly means have been found. So, when there's a ground-earth rocket, a ground-air or some plane bomb, we simply take a blanket and run to the mountain. I demand your answer whether you intend to stop this terror against the citizens of Pomoraval.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12739	The word is made by Minister Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12740	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen present MPs, I must express my satisfaction that today we have had a high-quality debate, in which there have been outbursts that were not well-intentioned either towards the ministry or the military, but I understand that we are at one stage in the pre-election campaign and that the stress of losing the election for the fourth time leads to your fear that you are talking about the right things today. I won't mind you insulting me today, Mr. Krasic, personally, but I have to draw attention to the fact that I simply cannot allow anyone, nor does MP Otto Kishmarton say that average students are studying at the Military Academy. Sir, I don't know what school you have, but you can't talk like that about Serbian Army Academy students. All students are equally good, believe me, last generation has been the best lately. Misa Zivkovic, a supporter with excellent grades, an excellent future officer, a pedestrian, by choice as the best student he has ever enrolled. He was the best in the class. I mean, you can insult me, I'll take it all because these laws end up in the Assembly, just like they did on board today. I must also thank the MPs who spoke with argument, especially Mr. Jadranka Vukovic. I said today on the Committee, it applies to all MPs, especially MPs who understand this matter, that they are welcome in my office whenever they want, to exchange experiences on a friendly basis, because my job is not a party job, my job is a government job. Also, I have to say, it's true that my advisor, one of two, was not serving the army, women didn't go to the army, so she didn't serve that army either. Also, I have to say, it's an absolute lie that I replaced General Delic. General Delic was the moment I was elected minister, and therefore cannot be that I replaced him. Also, it insisted on a poor connotation of the Partnership for Peace, while at the same time insisting on Russia's praise. I must tell you that next to me within the Minister of the Partnership for Peace, a representative of Russia sits on my right, participates in the work as I do. The attack on the Partnership for Peace can be seen by our Russian partners as an attack on their policy. Also, I remind you that in these difficult moments in Serbia, it is not good to come from the Serbian parliament. On the other hand, I want to tell you that it's true that the military is in a bad state, I'm not talking about morality, I'm not talking about professional members of the military, but first of all about material and technical equipment, that this is the least fault of the new management and me as a minister, but that I'm going to do everything to make sure that, very quickly, our air force, restores one part of the old reputation, I can't say the whole, because simply, we're not the state that has 24 million inhabitants anymore. That the funds put forward by the telecommunications tender as soon as possible, that the special equipment of the special brigade and other infantry units, should be allocated in the following year to the means to equip our army with modern, modern means of murder called modern dots, not to be like a country with one helicopter that can put out a fire, but to have minimum four, not to be... I really wish we didn't talk about who destroyed what, I believe that list would be longer. It's hard to find my name on that list, but I'm telling you, and I'm standing right here in front of you that we'll meet again next year, and we'll have very visible and clear, for all those who want to see, the shifts in the security system. What's also very important, our military academy hasn't failed, even though someone might wish it. At this point, we're training officers from abroad. I expect that in the following year we will enroll officers from friendly Arab countries, restore the old reputation we had internationally on this issue. I must say that, through our ministry and the maximum impact of our ministry, two strategic arms-sharing contracts and military equipment from our dedicated industry have recently been signed. I think these days will be ratified in the countries where we signed it and you'll have a chance to see how we take care of our defence industry. Once again, I thank all those who were well-intentioned in the debate. I have to say, we've adopted a few amendments. I am extremely pleased that these amendments are also from the opposition. Today I did not share MPs here to members of the yellow, less yellow or black, today I performed as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia representing the entire Ministry and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12741	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on defence and a proposal for a law on Serbia's army. For the very end, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12742	You say there's no more time, you didn't have to wait this long. What Dragan Sutanovac just did is inadmissible, Mr Oliver Dulic, we've warned him several times today, but of course, it can't affect him, but you surprise me, that you don't take care of the fact that ministers have to respect the Rules of Procedure, as well as the MPs. We've heard here that he's well-intentioned, so he won't mention any yellows, no less yellows, no less blacks, you just forgot to say - a yellow thief's company, because that's your name, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Dulic, don't ever ask SRS MPs again, while you have ministers like this here, that we respect the time, that we give up reporting to the Rules of Procedure, so that you respect the obligations of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. You know well that these dates are pressing you, you well know that you have failed to do what you should have done in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. It would be a good idea to talk to your ministers here, who represent the government. You, Mr. Sutanovac, to twist the story, that if someone said something against the Partnership for Peace, that they would resent Russia. That's what you say from this place, where you should never have said that, that you advocated joining NATO. You draw attention to one of the SRS MPs that he may resent the Russians. Don't worry, the Russians know what a patriotic party is in Serbia and don't be afraid, Serbian radicals will never mind the Russians. You laughed like this lady who, I guarantee, doesn't know what's on the agenda. Here, the prize question - say the name of the law we're discussing, and it's not a recipe for ajvar, here's a bet, whatever you want. So you all laughed when we talked about Russia in 2000, about the fact that the Russians, thank God, as they did, would rise to their feet. The truth is, they needed to get rid of their own Boris, and they're going to get rid of their Serbia and stand on their feet, and you, Mr. Minister, are one unsettled prick.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-03-0.u12743	For what you said in the end, I give you a warning. I'm sure you understand the reason why that is. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I wish you all good night.
