ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8191	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. The reason for my announcement was last night's statement, namely what RTS quoted Serbian President Boris Tadic as saying the DS will respect the law and that elections will be called for the president of the Republic of Serbia. It was not decided when it comes to local elections, but it is interesting that Serbian President Boris Tadic does not mention elections for Belgrade mayor at all. How can the president of Serbia forget such an important thing as the Belgrade mayor's choice? As you know, Nenadu Bogdanovic's term of office for death has ceased and the obligation of Serbian Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic is that after 15 days, under Article 42, he will call for mayor of Belgrade. You know that you tried to, in Belgrade in a Hajduk way, allow DS to keep the mayor's seat past the law, but after yesterday's session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which ordered the Ministry of Local Self-Government to annul all decisions made by the Belgrade City Assembly on the election of the president of the Assembly, vice-president and that famous deputy executive of the mayor's office, a problem facing Serbia's citizens, especially those facing Belgrade's citizens. In this way you cannot abuse your functions, or your position and avoid a legal obligation to call the mayor's election. I know that it is quite clear to you, as it is clear to all, as it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, that you have nothing to look for in the elections anymore. Some after these elections may be strong extraparliamentary parties, but it does not reduce your obligation to call the mayor's election in accordance with the law. You've been boasting so much to your candidates. Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't want to draw your attention that, among other things, you should provide peace in the O.R. I realize you're in no position to do this, because those I'm telling just don't want to hear it, but tell them that the sooner they hear it, the harder it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8192	I have asked the MPs several times to allow you to state your position. Momir Markovic, followed by Nemanja Sarovic, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Bojan Milovanovic and Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia say that among us there are also MPs who have tried power and those who have tried drugs, say they have a much harder abstinence than drug abstinence. I don't know, I expect one of those MPs to come out and explain which one of those drugs is harder. It is this drug, called the government, that forces the DS, which is all in favour of law enforcement and the Constitution, at least declareably, that when a part of the government in part of Serbia's territory, in particular in Belgrade, is at stake in all the legal acts, and that the Constitution, too, is undermining all its obligations, in order to preserve that little power. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is clear, 15 days after the mayor's term of office has ceased, the president of the assembly is calling elections for the mayor of Belgrade. Since the term of office of the former mayor has ceased, you have found yourself in unguarded grapes, so you are directing the citizens of Serbia, you are also directing us to the Members of the Constitutional Court, who is not thanks to you, to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, which is not due to you, because we have no constitutional court for two years now. I understand that the visions you have, especially the vision that the Deputy Mayor of Belgrade has, are, I dream of Belgrade with bridges and wide boulevards. Well, we've been dreaming for seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8194	Mr. Markovic, I'm sorry, I'm not going to include this time. I ask the MPs to allow the speakers to express their position. If that's not possible, then I'm going to suggest we take a break until the conditions are met to continue the work of the Assembly. Mr. Markovic, go ahead, but please, just specify a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8195	Articles 225 and 226. I apologize, Mr. Chairman, and now stop my time because I will quote Article 225 and 226, in accordance with the request of the President of the Assembly the other day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8196	This is how we're going to quote, Mr. Markovic, when the quote is finished, I'll give you time from the beginning. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8197	You got it. I will now read to you Article 225 and 226, in accordance with the request of the President of the Assembly the other day, that MPs should not only call, but also quote a member. Article 225: ''The People's Parliament shall have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. ''Stat 2: ''For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the section of the National Assembly are regularly delivered to the Members of the National Assembly. ''Article 226: ''The National MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. ''As I have all these notices here listed for the function of the MP, I ask the President of the Assembly why he did not call the elections for mayor of Belgrade in accordance with the law. But I'll talk about it later, rather than go back to where I left off. I remind you of your election campaign when you were talking about bridges. Belgrade has only two bridges, at least three more bridges for Belgrade to be built in due time, and the first bridge to be built is there at the end of Ade Gypsies. It's that stealth bridge, invisible. These are your visions. However, these visions of you, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, Serbian citizens, are more precisely Belgrade's citizens who pay fat. Let me remind you, Belgrade's budget for this year is about 800m euros and some million euros. Almost a billion euros goes into visions, goes into your dreams, goes into your dream designs. We have two bridges in Belgrade, one of which is reconstructed each time, so you point us to alternative directions, which is an alternative direction if you reconstruct "Gazel". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand that on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group it be explained why so far no elections have been called for mayor of Belgrade when all conditions have been met? I demand that we be explained, maybe we're not so smart to understand, how that, where it says it can be chosen by the Deputy Mayor's office, so if he has assistants, then he'd be the acting assistant of the Deputy Deputy Mayor's office, or whatever. I broke my tongue to explain, to just say what you're like as political gymnastics, to avoid the mayoral election, to do in the City Hall. I remind you that yesterday, the Committee on Local Self-Government has reached unequivocal conclusions, which suggest that you will have to call elections for mayor and all of these officials or performers, if it is ladies, that you will have to put all decisions on performers and officials out of force. Once again, I call on the president of the Assembly to, in accordance with the law and its powers, call the elections for mayor of Belgrade and not to pull Belgrade's nose. What are you so afraid of, anyway? You might win that election. Maybe Mr. Wolf doesn't stand a chance against your candidates. Let's go to the polls, all the problems in the state, all the problems in local self-government are solved in the simplest way, the elections. Immediately, Serbian citizens clearly and unequivocally say who was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8198	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, then MP Bojan Milovanovic. Meanwhile, violations of the Rules of Procedure were advertised by MPs Zdravko Topalovic and Gojko Radic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8199	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 27 paragraph 1 point 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also demand that the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, act in accordance with Article 27 of Item 1 5, carry out his constitutional and legal obligation and call elections for Belgrade's mayor. It is amazing that DS representatives insist on meeting those provisions of the Constitution and the constitutional law that are not even foreseen, and that they do not mind at the same time that Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court for a long time. That, among other things, is one of the things DOS's regime introduced in 2000. I will remind you that, when the total period has been added since 2000, since the coming of the DOS to power revolutionary methods, I do not think Serbia has had a total of five years of the Constitutional Court that has functioned. And the time we had the Constitutional Court, it was not the Constitutional Court, but the political court that made the political decisions, it only responded to those initiatives that it needed to do to the Democratic Party. On October 8th, an unprecedented violence, lawlessness and literally forced the Belgrade mayor's deputy, Mr. Alimpic, was elected in the Belgrade City Assembly. I will read you the provisions, i.e. I will read some of the stenograms, which we have finally received in full, because it is the only way for citizens and Belgrade, but also for all of Serbia, because this is the manner in which DS representatives behave everywhere in Serbia, to learn about the way they conduct democracy. Here's how this current deputy executive of the mayor's office is already breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure at the very beginning. Namely, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Belgrade City Assembly in Article 9 said the proposal for a candidate for the president of the assembly is being reasoned and is also foreseen for it to be presented and presented its work programme. Here is what Zoran Alimpic says: "Ladies and gentlemen of the council and everyone else present, it is custom, and the Rules of Procedure foresees that the candidate for the president of the Assembly should address the Assembly and present himself. This time I think (see this humble, democratic, although it is predicted by the Rules of Procedure, he says) that representation is not necessary (he is so well known to the general public). So until this morning I was vice president of the Assembly, I don't think we need to talk about any work programme. It's the program we've been working on since 1997." So that's what we promise her, and we're not doing anything. That's why there's no bridges, no infrastructure, etc. Now look at the highlight of democracy: "To make it easier to achieve this, we have reached an agreement. So that's the deal between me and the former president of the Assembly, Mr. Perovic, but it's not just our personal agreement, it's much more than that, it's a party deal, DS, DSS, G 17 plus. These are the three parties that have a coalition in this assembly and have the overwhelming majority of the committees. So this deal is a correct deal,' says Mr. Alimpic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8200	The word has the People's MP Bojan Milovanovic, then MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, then after Mr Radic, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'm going to remind some MPs, and some of them just let me know that today is October 17th, International Day Against Poverty. These days should not only be remembered when we are adopting girls through the work of the Assembly, but simply reminding us that it may be in Serbia these years and the biggest problem. The SPS, of course, through its programme of affirmative support to the most vulnerable categories of population in the Republic of Serbia. I will remind again that in 2003, the poverty reduction strategy was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also indicators very often point to the fact that the strategy remains a dead letter on paper and that it should not be supported in the form of such demagogue discussions, but requires one material support and support through all the institutions of the system, especially through the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind myself that, apart from the most vulnerable categories of the population in Serbia, poverty as a global process in a transition country as Serbia is now at this point and as it clearly expresses and exhibits itself. Even the government's vice president's team for implementation of the poverty reduction strategy pointed to clear indicators that must now show unequivocally the need to reduce poverty by 50% by 2010, as it points to a frantic fact that poverty will be even greater in 2010. Millennium goals and what the UN has presented as a global process and a problem, they said this would root out the most drastic poverty in 2015. It is clear that Serbia is not going in that direction at this time. What is still very interesting is that the Committee I am chairing, the Assembly Committee on Poverty Reduction, clearly needs to point out, is that one category of the most vulnerable and potentially in the future of the poorest people, which are young people. So, 47.5 years is the average age of this moment in Serbia, and clear and unequivocal demographic data suggest that in 2025 Serbia will have an average age of 65 years. Whether it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and whether all the significant institutions of the system are trying to eradicate the problem of poverty at this point in a way that physically eliminates endangered categories of people. The SPS will also use the programme, both through its campaigns and through its work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to point to this problem. I say once again, we all need to get a good picture of where Serbia is going right now on the most endangered category of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8202	The People's Messenger Ninoslav Dimitrijevic has the word, and then the Messenger of the People is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8203	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, on this day, on such an important day of international character, the SPS also addresses once again all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, asked precisely by those social categories most affected to bring their problem out again. They spoke to the SPS with the knowledge that today it's the only party on the left, that it's the party with the greatest sense of social justice. It is, above all, a category of young people who are threatened in another way, and these are children's rights and children's rights. Namely, I would like to present information from the Municipality of Negotin, where there are currently 1,043 families who are entitled to children's allowance for 1,757 children in the Municipality of Negotin. They are classified in two categories and each month the state determines a censorship for that right. For September, the census was 4,832 dinars per household member, and for the second category 5,798 dinars per household member. For these categories of countries, a fee of 1,490 dinars and 1,938 dinars is paid. In doing so, he wondered if anyone could survive with five to six thousand dinars per household can and if it would really mean anything to him from 1,500 to 2,000 dinars, or if it was just fictional, how much to say that they are entitled to this fee. In doing so, it takes 19 documents to be brought in to ensure that such a fictitious right is realised. We will also mention today another category of population, which is the category that has the right to compensation for physical damage. In fact, it is a physical damage of 100% based on non-professional diseases, which were otherwise discriminated against after 2000 compared to all other physical damages, where the physical damage on this basis today is 800 to 1,200 dinars per month. Also, one fictitious category. Since it is mainly about disabled pensioners, who do not have the right to compensation for other protections, such as the right to care and assistance, and we know what their pensions are, we also require that an urgent change be made to the sublegal acts that will correct this injustice, and since we know that the growing number is precisely non-professional diseases, or diseases of the cardiovascular system, malignancies and all of those other diseases that create and fabricate such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8204	The word has the People's MP Verica Radeta, then the MP Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8205	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the President of the National Assembly to carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, care for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, perform other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. My notification under the Rules of Procedure refers to point 1 and point 5 of this Article. Rules of Procedure. Namely, the SRS has come up with reliable data that Oliver Dulic intends to, in the most harsh way possible, violate Article 42. Law on local self-government, and Article 42. The law on local self-government stipulates that the speaker of parliament is obliged to call the elections within 15 days, from the day the mayor's term of office ended before the time he was elected. It is known that the term of office of Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic has ceased due to death, and that, you have heard these days and you will hear it today, because I have collected a lot of documents and I intend to introduce the citizens of Serbia to how DSS violates the law, violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, violates the Rules of Procedure of the City of Belgrade and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the greatest victory. So, given that we have this reliable information that Mr. Dulic will not call the elections within this time limit, we, the MPs of the SRS, are obliged to introduce the citizens of Belgrade to the fact that we try to convince Mr. Oliver Dulic to carry out his legal obligation. We don't want to get acquainted with the agenda or the... Thank you very much, please, report me again, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8206	Thank you. National MP Zdravko Topalovic, then MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8207	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. From my esteemed colleagues from the SRS, you have heard the legal basis for calling elections for the mayor of Belgrade. I'll try to explain to you why DS and its political allies aren't up to the election call for mayor right now. My distinguished colleague Nemanja Sarovic has already started reading a stenogram from the City Assembly session, where Mr. Alimpic, V.d. Mayor, he didn't say anything about his career. I would like to repeat, for the sake of the public in Serbia, that it is known that Mr. Alimpic was the president of the town municipality of Čukarica in two terms from 1996 to 2004. Here is what is known and what is enriched career of Mr. Alimpic, I have mentioned it, but since in Serbia one media darkness, none of it read, was electronic or written, under the control of the government, it did not want to be published. It also concerns that neither the D.A. nor the D.A., no one in charge of this problem has responded. Namely, during the government of Mr. Alimpic, while the president of the municipality of Chukarica in two mandates, there was an unprecedented robbery by the Public Business Office in Kukarica, where there was a loss of 39,621,000 dinars, and after the findings of the Independent Audit Agency Euroaudit reported a loss of 53 million dinars. The audit agency in the report says the data did not appear truthfully and objectively, which is a crime. It is certainly a crime to express such a loss, and it is only a crime to conceal it, and the loss is much greater. Normally, the marifets in the city must continue on DS and its satellites; Mr. Stanojevic, the city's secretaries. And here's how the public in Serbia also knows how the city's secretariat works: for any solution, any permit, anything to come to any city secretaries -- they're now looking to legalize the robbery, to introduce money flows into legal flows -- you show up, looking for approval, for example. The Transport Secretariat, they direct you to one of their elaborate agencies, you pay two or three thousand euros over the account to cover up the trail, and from the agency's account it pays off to natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8208	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic. National MP Gojko Radic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic, then MP Sulejman Spaho, Aleksandar Martinovic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, MP to the people, Damjanovic, and then MP Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8209	Fellow Members, Art. 225 and 226. I would go back a little bit to remind myself when this new one was needed, as one of my colleagues, Momir Markovic, calls you - Democrats, when they were 1996/1997. The year was a big demonstration in Belgrade, the famous Gonzales Lex specialis, when your late prime minister was climbing and taking down a five-pointer and introducing democracy into Serbia, and from this democracy here as far as we came today, we need to talk about these things that don't even have a "d" from democracy. Since the arrival of democracy in Belgrade and the DS, with the SP, 1996 and 1997, we can only remind ourselves of the urban and construction mafia, which then won the biggest swing in Belgrade and could have ended up in offices with a suitcase and some bribe that was being brought. That's how jobs ended in Belgrade, and it's logical that when you entered all that machinery, you have no way out and now you're trying to keep what you have and you can't go into one democratic development, both Serbia and Belgrade. But through Belgrade, your face is painted, for you are all set here, and you have prepared yourselves chairs. If we are talking about democracy and if you are calling for democracy, then in these talks, in all political functions and elected persons, the mandates stop when the person dies. All the stories end there, there can be a point and there's no need to talk about it and make up some ways to stay in power. The mayors were elected directly, the mayors were not elected in the Assembly, so the applicable law that exists must be applied. The mayor cannot be elected anywhere in Serbia, no president of the municipality, no mayor can be elected in parliament, assembly presidents are elected in parliament. Gentlemen Democrats, if we already know there is no more democratic way to vote, then why are you resorting to violence and force? Why don't you call the election? If the term of office ceases by forced death, within 15 days, the speaker of the assembly is required to call the elections. None of your goodbyes, calling for Kosovo. Now that it's December 10-11, and then you'll find a way and you'll say -- you know what, the problem of Kosovo will appear in the third month, and then you'll ask for another deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8210	Thank you, Mr. Radic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic, so Sulejman Spaho. Mr. Sarovic, member of the 27th indent 1, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8211	I don't know, Mr. Obradic, what does that mean, is that a 27th indent 1, did you become, as some of your predecessors, psychic or what it's about? (President: No, I'm just asking, we don't have to quote. Here you go. Mr. Obradich, it is extremely incorrect to ask that question of yours. You don't ask, that's how you disrespect what I have to say in advance. (President: I had no bad intentions. I'll give you your time back. ) Mr. Obradic, it's not just about time, if you need to add another 30 seconds, but please refrain from such incorrect comments. So I'm doing everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to stick with it. (President: I apologize if you took the comment as incorrect, I had no intention. ) I report in accordance with Article 226 this time and ask the President of the Assembly for a notice when he will call the elections for mayor of Belgrade and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a notice on why they have not responded to such an unscrupulous violation of the law and the legal violence that took place in the Belgrade City Assembly on 8 October 2007. I would understand that this is the Middle Ages that you act like this and think that behind these misdeeds of yours there will be no trace, and that with the help of the media you control, primarily city television, television that should be television for all of Belgrade's citizens, you will try to cover up what you've done. Unfortunately for you, and fortunately for the citizens of Belgrade, there are stenographic notes and the rest is written down and will remain branded for all time by your anti-democracy, anti-state behavior. So, I'm going to read to you now the beginning of the 20th session of the Belgrade City Assembly, in order to resolve a possible dilemma if it exists with someone. So, the beginning of work at 11.25 p.m., October 8, 2007. Milorad Perovic, president of the Belgrade City Assembly, presides. And the president says -- respected committeemen, I am opening the 27th session of the Belgrade City Assembly, and I would ask you to pay our respects to Nenad Bogdanovic for a moment of silence. After that he says, I'd like to inform you of two things. In fact, on October 8th, the deputy president of the city's assembly, Mr. Zoran Alimpic, and I, too, resigned as president of the city's parliament. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, the oldest committee should take the lead session with the assistance of the two youngest. So that's when he resigned, before that he was the current president, it says that the president of the City Assembly was also in the stenogram itself, and he acted that way. Article 14. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the City Assembly say the president of the Assembly ceases his post before the time on which he was elected should he resign or be resolved. The resignations of the speaker of the assembly shall be immediately notified to the Assembly, and at the first next session of the assembly, without voting, it shall determine that his term of office has ceased on the day of his resignation. So, not at that session, which was current and which was under way, whose presidency Mr. Perovic began, but just...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8212	National MP Sulejman Spaho, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8213	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. I wouldn't have answered if my citizens of Loznice hadn't called me on the phone right now and asked what Mr. Tadic wanted. As usual, Mr. Tadic doesn't know what he wants. He wants to issue allegedly presidential elections under the law, and he will not call the elections that should also be under the law for the mayor. I had the honour of being in a delegation that talked to Tadic about the mandate, and then Mr Tadic didn't know what he was doing. It was also necessary by law to give the mandater to be someone from the SRS as the largest, who had the largest number of MPs, and he didn't do it. You can't call the mayor's election because you don't have a candidate to beat our candidate. Alexander Wolfie. Believe me, with everything you've done wrong for Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia and me running for office, I'd be the mayor of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8214	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and then the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8215	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is clear that DS and DSS are playing with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that the Constitution and the law are interpreted according to their current political need. When it suits them, then they follow the Constitution and the law, when it doesn't suit them, then they make up their own rules. It is quite clear that National Assembly President Oliver Dulic, who is not currently in the National Assembly Hall and who seems to be getting in the way of everything other than chairing the National Assembly, which is his basic function, has an obligation under the Law on Local Self-Government to call elections for the mayor of Belgrade. He cannot escape from his obligation, nor can he find valid, making arguments why he will not carry out his obligation. You see, we heard some day an explanation of what is rather unprofessional, from Minister of Local Self-Government Milan Markovic, that there is a dispute in the interpretation of whether it is necessary to wait for the adoption of a new law on local self-government and then call elections for mayor of Belgrade, or whether the current Law on Local Self-Government should be applied. The minister says there's a slow, different understanding about it, so let's wait until we've made a deal. There are no disputes, and it's perfectly clear by the Constitutional Law, according to Article 12. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia laws and other regulations and general acts remain in force until new laws are passed. Therefore, Mr Oliver Dulic has an obligation until a new law on local self-government and a new law on local elections is passed, to apply the applicable law on local self-government and the applicable law on local elections. So, he has an obligation, and the obligation is fixed for Friday, to call elections for Belgrade's mayor. If he doesn't, he'll do one flagrant violation of the Constitution and the law. The question is, it's a question addressed to you, Mr. Obradovic, we had a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government yesterday, and because of lack of time, I couldn't direct that question to your DSS colleague, but I'm telling you now. How many democratic parties of Serbia are there today in the Republic of Serbia? It appears that one Democratic Party of Serbia in the government, the other Democratic Party of Serbia in the Belgrade City Assembly, is that the third Democratic Party of Serbia is here in parliamentary benches and that some fourth Democratic Party of Serbia is in the Committee on Local Self-Government. Thank you, and I ask you to re-apply me for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since I have not finished my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8216	The nun Radeta has a word. I can't answer you right now, because I can't abuse the presidency.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8217	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. The Rules of Procedure say that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. This time I ask for a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, to tell us whether the correct information, which Serbian radicals have come to, is that he has no intention of calling the Belgrade mayor's election, although he has an obligation in accordance with Article 42. The law on local self-government, which is absolutely undeniable. We have a basis to believe in this reliable information, because the experience we have with Mr Oliver Dulic for the past eight months, as far as the President of Parliament is concerned, I think even Natasa Micic has surpassed the Constitution and the law. It's amazing how many times Oliver Dulic broke the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, he's actually breaking it in continuity. We are in an unconstitutional state, Serbia is in an unconstitutional state. In addition to Tadic and Kostunica, the most responsible for this unconstitutional situation is Mr Oliver Dulic. Oliver Dulic would not allow this parliament to discuss any part of the agenda, of course, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija always has priority, so he would not allow any part of the agenda to be discussed until we have proposals for laws under the Constitution and constitutional law. Mr Oliver Dulic does not pay attention to this, such as the fact that in 10 municipalities in Serbia there are, for a year or more, forced administration, which are the municipalities of Kula, Zrenjanin, Bogjetić, Smederevo, Velika Gradište, Užice, Valjevo, Smederjevska Palanka, Babusnica and Leskovac. Mr Oliver Dulic's direct responsibility... Thank you very much, report me again, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8218	Zoran Krasic has a word, followed by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8219	Mr. Chairman, I call on article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which prescribes what the President of the National Assembly should do, and I would only call on the last indent that he says - to do other tasks foreseen by law and by this Rules of Procedure. Why does such a provision exist in our Rules of Procedure? Because the president of the National Assembly, in addition to being the first among the equal, and individual certain laws, has received some powers belonging to the group so-called. constitutional matter. One of these powers is to call local elections. I have no intention of quoting the provisions of the Law on Local Elections, but it is generally known that in a large number of municipalities there exists so-called. The criminal administration, introduced by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is not only forced, it is criminal, as soon as the time period as it can exist has expired. So the next day after the prescribed deadline, it's no longer a forced administration but a criminal administration. We have this new emerging situation concerning the election of the mayor of Belgrade. Now we have to enter the reasons why the President of the National Assembly did not act in accordance with the Law. There's probably a few groups of possible reasons why this is a condition. One group of reasons is probably based on the fact that we have no confidence, or a degree in the completed elementary school of Mr. Dulic, and I am justifiably doubting whether he is in writing at all, because a very clear provision does not know how to read. He says, 15 days, it probably takes someone, Mr. Obradovic, from that environment of Mr. Dulic to tell him on the calendar when that 15th day is, not to bother, it seems to me to be this Friday, when he has to make that decision. A similar situation is with these criminal administrations in some units of local self-government. A second group of reasons could probably be that it is under unauthorized pressure from the president of Serbia. You know, they belong to the same stranger and probably the one assessing when, what, since he's famous for those estimates, and he's pressing this president of the National Assembly, and we kind of need to free him from that fear. He's probably scared. I see there are two cabinets, one in this building, the other in that building over there. That building over there is jinxy, there are waterways and if you spend more time there, then by making illiteracy comes to the maximum. Just one more sentence so I don't hear from you later. The third group of reasons can be classed in one that allegedly makes excuses for similar situations in which the state was in, such as Bodrum, and that I don't order further, where the Democratic Party shows an extremely strong tendency to the drop system. I'll be in power where I can pull. Belgrade is a place where it can pull itself together. We have not yet reached Bojan Stanojevic, we have not yet reached the Angelovic family, we have not yet reached these investments, we have not yet reached out to anyone to check who steals it, how much they steal, and why the unlisted elections are protected by thieves, and this third group of reasons is probably in the jurisdiction of Mr Jocic, but since they are in a coalition in Belgrade and from that. So tell Mr. Dulic, it's Friday in a few days, get him to sign that decision immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8220	On the list of applicants, on this extremely important issue, there is a total advertising of Rules of Procedure 20 reported at this time. More than once, this very important question has been mentioned. I am setting a 30-minute break to carry out the necessary consultations and calling on the heads of Parliament to meet with the president of the Assembly and the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government. [[After break – 12,05]] The agreement has been reached to continue today's session at 13.00 hours and then to work until 6:00 a.m. without a break. And today, a session of the Legislative Committee will be held, and tomorrow the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, President Oliver Dulic, will schedule a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and within the framework of the two committees, opinions will be taken on all issues, which are extremely important for the functioning of not only the Assembly, but also for the functioning of the entire state, and committees will take their views. We'll continue our work at 13.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8222	After consulting with the heads of parliament on an important issue that was raised, on which a certain conclusion was reached by the Committee on Local Self-Government, and following the opening of a new issue concerning the terms and dates of the election, I asked the President of the Legislative Committee to schedule a session of the Legislative Committee today to discuss the matter. I must inform you that as chairman of the Constitutional Committee, I will also schedule a session tomorrow, where we will discuss this very important topic. In line with the agreement at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs, we continue our work. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) and (3) and with Article 140(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the acts of the Commissioner for Public Information and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the acts of the Protector of Citizens. Does the proposing representative, MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the Administrative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club, MP of the Verica Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8223	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, today we are talking about the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the Service of the Commissioner for Public Information, the Decision on the work of the Service of the Commissioner for Public Information, on the decision on the education and work of the Professional Service of the Citizens' Protector and the Regulation on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens. Perhaps when we read what the proposals are today discussed, we can get the impression that it can be crossed literally only by voting, but we in the SRS think that this subject, or these topics, should be given the proper attention, first of all, for the reasons why the National Assembly chooses, and chose the Protector for information of public importance. When we talked about these laws in time and specifically about the persons that the Assembly had placed on these functions, the MPs of the SRS expressed their views on the SRS, and of course I have no intention of repeating any of this today. The position of the SRS, especially when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, is that this is a completely unnecessary function, that we think the institutions of the system should function, that courts, prosecutors should function, that authorities, from top to bottom, should be free of crime and corruption. We are convinced that crime and corruption are exactly what makes it impossible for citizens to exercise their rights in accordance with the law. However, when we already have the elected trustee and the Protector of Citizens, then certainly the state must provide the right conditions for both institutions to work. The trustee of public importance has been re-elected, I say, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic had done this job earlier, he was doing it now, and it would be good and we think it was necessary for Mr. Sabic to be here with us today, to talk about his work so far, to make his remarks to us, to bring us the problems he faced in his work so far, given that we were very often read in the media, or to hear Mr. Rodoljub Šabić, who has long regretted that he has no working conditions, that there is no room, that there are not enough associates, simply that his job has been disabled. It's kind of a problem. Another kind of problem is when it comes to Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, too, what we unfortunately learn as MPs only from the media, that Mr. Rodoljub Sabic also has these problems when it comes to obtaining information of public importance from certain services and authorities, state bodies, which are obliged to act on the orders of the Commissioner. We had, and we talked about Mr. Sabic's re-election of the SRS newspaper "The Greater Serbia" has repeatedly been able to address Mr. Rodoljub Sabic. I must say, as far as he's concerned, he's always been correct in the sense that he was either timely or providing information or was much more often informing the Greater Serbia's office that he couldn't deliver the information because he who was asked for the information didn't want to deliver it to the Trustee. We expected that today Mr. Rodoljub Sabic would be here with us so that he would bring all his problems to the people's MPs, to the people who chose him, to tell us specifically who these organs are, who these people are, by name and last name, who are making it impossible for him to work, and, of course, through him, the availability of information to the general public. Then it would really be a serious debate on this subject. So, we got, as I said, the Honored President, so he titled Rodoljub Sabic, a memo with this act, and one and the other delivered to Mr Oliver Dulic, and we now need, I don't know on what basis, to assess whether what Mr. Sabic delivered to us exactly what was needed for the normal functioning of this service. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic predicted five civil servants in position, 13 civil servants and two tenants, in this act on internal planning and systematization. We think five civil servants are in position, in this service, too. This is exactly proof of what we were talking about when you passed the law and when you chose the trustee. You, in fact, as well as various agencies, are introducing all this into Serbia's legal system just to settle some internal accounts, to place a certain number of people on some significant functions, and a state official in a position is a very significant function within the meaning of the Civil Service Act, because a civil servant has a salary I mean almost in the rank of minister, certainly for at least 1/3 of the salary of a MP. This is why Rodoljub Šabić in this service needs five civil servants in office. That's why we in the SRS don't think this is a good solution, that this isn't domestically available to the state budget. There is no one here who could explain why it is, because perhaps if Mr. Sabic were here, he might convince us that he needs five civil servants in office. In Article 7. The decisions on the work of the Commissioner's Service for Public Information stand, in the first position, positions in the Service of Trustees are the secretary of the Service of the Trustees, assistant secretaries and chief of staff. Since Mr. Sabic is not recently on this post, we would like to know who are the people who have performed these functions so far, whether Mr. Sabic will change them, whether there has been some new intra-party trade, and if he will change them, which is why he will change them and who he intends to put on these jobs. This is obviously going to remain a question without an answer and it will certainly be the reason why we in the SRS won't be able to vote for this, because we don't think anyone can have that kind of authority, independence in the work that, but such powers that they can only serve something like this on paper, that they're not worthy of coming to talk to us, to answer some questions, they're simply not good solutions. I'm interested in, say, Mr. Sabic was a member of a political party at a time when he was first elected Commissioner, then through the media he informed us that something had frozen his status, it was the stupidest thing that could happen in that party. Now the question is, did he then put on these jobs people from his party back then? Is he, in the meantime, inclined to some other political option, whether he's the subject of trade at all, and he, and this trust and all of these people, we should know that if we decided to vote for what we're discussing today. Article 12 states that on the date of entry into force of this decision, it ceases to apply to the decision to establish a Public Information Service of the Commissioner and to the decision on salaries in the Public Information Service of 20 January 2005, to which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agreed with Decision No 36 of 23 May 2005. We don't know, based on what we got in this material, how many employees Mr. Sabic currently has, we don't know how many new ones are going to be employed, we know what the total number is, but in order to know how many new ones are going to be employed, we need to know how busy it is so far. We also need to know which way it is so far and how Mr. Sabic will hire these people in the future. Whether it will be sent from party directorates or a public competition will be called, because I do not remember that there was that competition in May in 2005, whether a public competition will be called, whether all citizens, who meet the conditions laid down in this decision, will be able to compete and whether they will be able to be employed in these important, professional, well-paid jobs, whether they are from some parties or whether they are from which parties. I'm telling you in advance it won't be like that, that there will be party-deserved people here too, and we in the SRS can't support it. I am now asking Mr. Sabic publicly, I expected the seventh time, and I repeat, that he will be sitting here, so that I ask him to answer us immediately, when the Administrative Board of this Assembly will receive information from Mr. Sabic, and the Administrative Committee asked for it a dozen days ago – is that so, Vesna – the data on the level of earnings in public enterprises, the amount of earnings made by the director, president and members of the boards of public enterprises, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Administrative Committee of the Government couldn't get, which is amazing, of course, that data, because the government told the Administrative Committee that these data are being recorded cumulatively, and then they can't determine, or give information that public enterprise is spending on profits, which is, I repeat, incredible and scandalous. I'm saying that the government lied to the Administrative Committee, because in the form of a parliamentary question, I asked for a particular public enterprise and I got an answer from the government. Of course, I expressed my doubts about the accuracy of this response and my colleague, Mr. Zoran Krasic, asked the police minister, who was then here to examine the accuracy of the answer to that parliamentary question and, of course, to this day, there is no work. So much for how much that trustee really works and how much the government allows him to work. Now about the Protector of the Citizens. We have the same two acts, of course different numbers in question, a different number of employees in this service, and also Mr. Sasa Jankovic would like to ask, if he were here of course, before the National Assembly he took an oath somewhere in June, no, July 23rd took an oath, today is October 17th, and now the question for Mr. Sasa Jankovic, where he has worked, I mean this period since he took an oath to this day, or whether the government has provided him with adequate rooms, since I repeat, we have had the opportunity to read and listen to how much Mr. Rodoljub Šabic had problems even with the premises in 2005. Who has Mr. Sasa Jankovic worked with so far? Is this what he is now delivering to us as a proposal just to cloud his eyes, whether he has exposed all these people, whether he has already done, or ended this intra-party trade, whether we are MPs and this Assembly to him is merely a formality, or is truly experiencing us as the most legislative body, which we are, the body that put him on this function and to whom he has to account. I don't know, first of all, Mr. Dulic, if Mr. Dulic is still there, Mr. Albianic, I know as fast as it is to have Mr. Dulic leave you there, but now you have to answer me, whether Mr. Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic have been informed that these agenda points are currently under review, whether I am now unfairly criticising them because they are not here, and then transferring the criticism to the president of parliament, if he has not informed them, and if he has informed them, then I will certainly remain in that I am very critically referring to their irresponsible and irresponsible work in relation to parliament. So, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Protector of Citizens, will either hire five civil servants in office, 54 executive jobs of civil servants and four tenants. Again, the question is whether five civil servants are in position in the Civil Protection Service is an optimal number or, according to what the SRS thinks, a little bit. I would ask Mr. Sasu Jankovic further, I have to address him like this, because I don't know who else can speak to us on his behalf here, I don't believe that any representative of the parliamentary group who voted for the election of these persons, so I would ask him if, like the National Office, he's thought about his offices in Serbia, because there are such indications, whether all these jobs have already been filled out; if not, will he call a contest, whether the conditions of the competition will apply to all Serbian citizens, or if the SRS, for whatever time, will be right when we have claimed that this function is just to satisfy as many party appetites as possible, because you don't have enough seats in ministries, state secretaries, ministers, assistants, directors of agencies, directors of directors, directors of directors of directors of directors. You have accumulated this state apparatus so much that it is simply frightening and that Serbian citizens should seriously consider where the government of Vojislav Kostunica, of course with the support of the assembly majority in this parliament, spends money on Serbian citizens. Why didn't these two men honor us for their presence? Or, please, Mr. Albianic, do they even know that we are discussing their proposals today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8224	Mrs. Radeta, they're not proposing these acts and they're not invited. The president of the assembly could have invited them to attend without the right to speak here about these acts. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? We've got the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure reads: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who call the president of the National Assembly." You said he could have called them, but they couldn't speak. So you did not answer the question whether Mr Dulic invited Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic. We don't have the answer to that question. They are not proposing, but we are discussing the text that they have proposed, the proposals that are their personal proposals, names and last names signed. So, not on behalf of any authority, but personally the Trustee and the Personal Protector of the Citizens. They spoke to the president of parliament, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The President of Parliament puts it on the agenda and there is no reason, on the contrary, they had to be present here right now, here, all those questions that I, Mr Albianic, have asked during my debate, that Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic here would be able to answer these questions immediately, and from the answers to those questions, let's say, depends, no less, but whether the SRS parliamentary group will vote for this. Of course, without those answers, I'll do it again, we won't vote for it. Mr. Albianic, please, if you are not able to give the right answer, then say nicely, Mrs. Radeta, MP, I have no answer to your question, wait for Mr. Dulic to come, so ask him on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I know that and, of course, I'm going to ask him, but you don't need to defend Mr Oliver Dulic in such an unwise way. I understand that he is now in special trouble, today he has heard what will happen, what he has done, how many times he has broken the Constitution, how much he intends to break it, etc. And he knows a man won't have a good time, like no one who breaks the Constitution and the law didn't go well, but that's his problem. You know, whoever gets in the wheel, gets in the leg. If Mr Dulic is still working solely on Sonja Licht's orders, he is probably with her in the City Assembly today, because the meeting she was planning was delayed to educate the MPs at the House of People's Assembly, so the SRS MPs announced that we would all attend this education and that we would talk to her every five minutes about our views, when it comes to European and Euro-Atlantic integration, and then the educational assembly was moved to the Belgrade City Assembly. Mr. Dulic is probably there, and it would be better if he were here, where he really belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8226	I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta, I didn't give you a full notice about that. So the president of the assembly did not call, according to the secretary of the assembly, who helps me in my work, so that's the information we own. The Management Board is also a Proposer and, on the basis of Article 93, the right to propose, the rapporteur of the committee and the MPs, and that is all I can say to you at this time. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8227	Mr. Shabic, you've got a special bonus for me since I found out the other day that you've graduated from the most elite school in this country, Chachan High School.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8228	Mr. Albianic, you meant to say, you said Mr. Shabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8229	Yes, Mr. Albianic. This was a lapus. Once again, Mr. Albianic, you have graduated from the most elite school in this country, it is a chacan high school, which in your time was called "Philip Filipovic". It's no longer called that, but you've done quite a good school. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP club of the SPS would have some reason to back this up, some not to support it, but regardless of these protocol obligations of the trustees and the Protectors of the Citizens, and regardless of who invited them, we believe that it was the basic civil, charter and any other order that they are sitting here today in front of us. There's a few reasons for that. If you look closely at the act that systemizes jobs, let's start with this technical thing, a hundred people, at least 70 of them with a finished college, which isn't bad, gets a salary from these two, let's say, state furniture, we can call it different. What's with the profits? For example, the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector receive 2.27 parliamentary salaries each month as personal income. You have to admit it's a decent profit. Or, the ones who count, the only thing that counts is that the parliamentary salaries are huge. I agree that MPs' salaries are high. The average salary in Serbia, however, has not been increased in the last three years, so how is it that you are so easy to decide that thousands of people in Serbia are being set up with profits that are over 100-150,000 dinars. Where'd you get that money? Who's funding it? What you're showing is that the social interest of those who do these jobs is such as social risk, that they can be measured two and a half times with MPs, who are still elected by citizens, whatever anyone thinks of them, and whatever they do here and whoever they represent. I am convinced, dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, that we all really represent here at least 30,000 full-time citizens and that we are their protectors, trustees for information of public importance, that we are their lawyers, that we are their public speaker, that we are often their shoulder to cry on and that sometimes we are their only hope. Whoever doesn't believe it, let him go a little bit in Serbia, go through the party network and the other network and see if what I'm saying is true. If possible, each other's state deputy in Serbia has a higher salary than the MP. What kind of work is it, how is it worth, how is it measured, and how do they never get on the daily news pages? Who pays those reporters to write about only one salary and to mumble on other salaries? What is this about here in Serbia? Do you want me to tell you, dear colleagues and respected colleagues, that in these two households there are 50% of the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who serve the highest legislative authority in this country. Do you think that's normal? Then how can we agree so easily, so elegantly, that everyone here can hire the chief of staff, and the secretary, and the head of protocol, and the five deputies, and the five high-ranking states, and these and those, and how long will that go? Should we mention that in Serbia nearly 300,000 people are getting paid from the budget, and that out of these 300,000 are the number of new jobs in newly systematised jobs from 2000 to today 71,000? Do you gentlemen understand that there are today countries in the world that have a similar number of inhabitants who have less administration than this one than 71. A thousand? Who can pay more? Is she always a wolf learner, and handcuffs are always full? Can she just, like she always does in Serbia, constantly guilty of cadmice? There's not going to be, but there's some other interests here, and there's one strategy here to put in a variety of state and para-state bodies a proper party network, to put together an establishment of relevant NGOs, and from there, as para-state organisations, do something that is once very, very hard to control. Which I don't think is what this is about, but I'm talking about at the level of principle. So there's gonna be more of this and there's already been. Simply, I ask all of us, I ask the media, I ask citizens in Serbia and those who should take care of Serbia, is there any face to limit one salary to a civil servant today in Serbia and to say how much can it be the most in Serbia? Can these make their wages? Maybe I can. You know when I can? They can when they deliver the information we asked for. How many are sinacuras, abbreviations on boards of public enterprises; who personally accepts these syncures? Who, gentlemen, is on several boards of directors and supervisors? What are their cumulative incomes over the course of one month? That's what we're asking Mr. Shabic to tell us, not to be declared a state secret in this country. I'm telling you that there are MPs, there are party officials in power who are in four or five of these bodies, organisations I'm talking about, whose monthly incomes are several thousand euros. Have them deliver us, so that I can read to you with pleasure, explain to us how it is possible for someone in one institution or in one public enterprise to receive six or seven thousand euros from the Serbian budget? That's what we were looking for, and they said to the board that they didn't have any data. Ask Mr. Sabic to do his job and earn his salary of 160,000 dinars. That's what we're looking for. I guess that's not much, since we're being followed by a camera from the restaurant to the bathroom, to the market, wherever we meet, and let's just, I guess that's what our fight gave us, and that's not controversial. We should live in a glass environment, so everyone sees what we do and how we behave, and I don't slow it down. People need to see what MPs do, how they behave, who they represent, how they represent them, how they praise them, and when they're critical. What about the others? Who's taking care of them? How can we, as the highest authority in one country, control what these people are doing? Unfortunately, I have to say, not at all. Only in these two households there are as many technical staff and secretaries as there are in the two largest parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. What's the measure of things here? What's this about? Who is holding Parliament for the largest front in the state of Serbia, and how can we get out of this situation? So we're passing the law. We adopt a systematisation act, they are elected by Parliament, and they immediately start with three to five times the salary of the National Assembly president. Please, these have a higher salary than the head of state. What's this about? Can someone explain to us how you who voted in the Management Board for this can explain it? Is there one more complex political job in this country than the head of state? What anyone thinks of him in private is his private business. He is an institution, he is the head of state, elected by Serbian citizens. He's got a higher salary of 40,000 what we call a Manchester from the head of state. How is that possible? Who gave you the right to do so, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, value your jobs? On whose behalf are you doing this? That's why we don't want to vote for this. Because it's not normal and because this isn't a lonely case, this is what we have every day on the agenda, in proportions that they simply can't see anymore, or control. Citizens are asking different questions, in different ways, asking for appropriate answers, talking to us, just before the people of the chelarevo brewery came forward, because they can't get an explanation for how someone spent their six million euros, so it's about shareholders. Is it so hard for the workers of the brewery chelarevo to give an answer - it happened anyway? Is the silence of the administration just what someone declares to be the silence of the administration, and not what someone systematically does to some social groups that are uncomfortable by authority? That's not possible. There are things that are not discussed every time they're on the agenda, but once and for all, at the level of principle. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I said not to save my soul, to continue my and the struggle of the MPs of the SPS, who has the goal of explaining in Serbia that there is a Parliament serving as a public spit room, which has the need every day in 10 media to write the worst possible things about Parliament and MPs, which has the task of writing every day in the media about any behaviour of the MP, without speaking a single word about those who are doing concentration on the market, who are dealing with the monopoly in this country, who are doing millions of damage daily in this country, who are apologising in several boards and supervisory committees and are untouchable, those who have raised nepotism to the level of principle in human and human politics, have hired all aunts, aunts, aunts, godmothers and godmothers in the media, in public institutions, in the ministries, etc. Not to mention the party's personal vertical that was transferred to almost all ministries. That's what I'm up against, that's what SPS MPs are up against, and they're gonna deal with this. We'll make it clear once that it's not possible in this way to evaluate anyone's work, even if someone came from an NGO to be who they are. Otherwise, I think of this man personally for the best. So it's not a question, it's not about personal matters at all, it's about issues that are here on the agenda. It is a process that takes place in Serbia, which is directed against Serbia's parliament, so they explained in different ways that it is the lowest possible level institution, that it has only a few percent support, etc. Put a camera into other institutions, let every day the citizens see what they're doing there, so you'll see how much rating they'll have there. So, once again I ask, what should be done in this country without every civil servant getting his secretary, his chief of staff, his personal vehicle and his driver? Are we such a rich country that we can handle it? I would like to say that I am proud to be a Parliament MP who has a 10-car fleet, where other than the President of Parliament has no car in his name, but has a service, so when someone, the chairman of a committee or other MPs, has a need, then, in accordance with technical and other possibilities, he can get the use of the vehicle for that day, with a road warrant and everything that belongs to him. What's one car of 2,000 cc's and one driver for a man like this? What kind of business he's doing in the middle of Belgrade, God damn it! So a cab costs 500 dinars a day to go to any location. It's less than the insurance and the lease paid for that car if it's so bought. Can we handle this? We'll talk about the budget in a few weeks, and hopefully, I promise you on behalf of the SPS, to say in the jargon, we'll get into every small intestine in the budget. There's no money for culture, no money for media, no money for social needs, no money for pensioners, no money for agriculture, no money for subsidies, to prevent what was burned this year, no money for anti-building missiles. But there's money for anyone who smiles around here once he gets a car, a secretary and a cabinet chief and a protocol. That's not normal. Either we say it in public or we agree to keep quiet. As far as we're concerned, we're not gonna keep our mouths shut and we haven't shut up yet. We want to explain that this country's parliament in total cost of the entire budget is below 0.7%. What's this about? So 0.7% of what the government and parliament get, I didn't mean the whole budget. Parliament has been here for days in an inappropriate way. I have to ask all my colleagues that we, too, in the heat of political struggle sometimes do not contribute, because I assure you, and as you know, we have all come the same way, there is no more complicated procedure in this country, apart from the procedure for selecting the President of the Republic, I am talking about the procedure for electing a MP to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We should be prepared and able to defend this parliament against these officials and other officials who are born daily and who are spending their budgets, and I am not sure that this gives the right results. Let's analyze how many state secretaries, how many ministerial assistants, how many sectors there are. This one has an organizational scheme like it's a government. Well, that's not normal, people. There are departments here, sectors, secretaries, secretaries, cabinets, I really don't know what these people do, what their work assignment is, what they have to do. Then what are the courts doing, what is the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals doing, whether or not someone is going to lift it, I urge you to defend the Assembly Committee on Presentations, because that's the subject. The Assembly's Presentation Committee should be a people's soul, there should be any performance that comes from Serbian citizens, and MPs to journalists should comment on whether anyone has a problem and who it is leveled and whether we can help solve. So, I do not dispute that there should be a Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Citizens in a modern democratic society, although there are countries that do not have a protector. Germany, yesterday we had one chance to talk to the Bundestag MPs, not at the federal level of the Ombudsman. But to measure it, it can do a few people, it can be done in a way that is usually done everywhere in the world. Please, they've outlived what was the basic idea of personal, technical and financial importance, they've overcome what we as a state can endure. If we don't get in the way of this, we'll have another 30,000 new officials in the country in the next five years, and then 2/3 of all employees in Serbia will be employed in the administration. We're not voting for this, because everything I said, I hope, is understood properly. You who support this, I want to say it and I end it, you say: you, Commissioner and Protector of the Citizens, are doing one-third more complex, more important and serious jobs than the President of the Republic. If you agree to that, it's an honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8230	The word is Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8231	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, provision of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and the question, which I think should occupy the attention of the citizens of Serbia, is a question for the government, for the minister of justice, and I ask for an explanation and a notice, for the interior minister, which is an unusual campaign which is unofficial, but the fact that the master of Serbia, Miroslav Miskovic, has started to lead against everyone and everyone in this country, of course, by disciplining the media and, of course, by that people -- who says otherwise, defaming and lying. State shut up. Is this some Delta Land or Serbia, what is this? So Miskovic threatens Verica Barac and the Anti-Corruption Council, everyone is quiet. He's threatening the Competition Protection Commission, and everybody's quiet. He announces that he's hired a team of English lawyers to scare everyone and that no one can say a word, and everyone's quiet. He says -- if statements according to "Delti" come from state institutions, political officials, for God's sake, and he's a government favorite, and he's the boss, so he put his wife in charge of someone to brand Serbia, politicians, public figures or the media, everyone will be sued. This was published by Politics yesterday and today, and you keep your mouth shut. It refers to those who belong to the ruling coalition. Why? Because some people try, like Verica Baraq, to do their job honestly and honestly. Is it because she discovered that the inadmissible government, with the prime minister, had involved some sort of memorandum about taking over the C Market? Is it because the man on the warrant, Radulovic, announced that he had a meeting with the interior minister, who promised that he would not be prosecuted if "Ce Market" belongs to Miroslav Miskovic? Why and whether, again, the question of what is his connection to the bankruptcy mafia, is he an ideologist and creator of a process and an affair called the bankruptcy mob? Then what about the Network action? What about those dice and that cube that belongs to him and his company Hemslede from Cyprus? Where did the money come from by selling Delta Bank? Are they here or are they in Cyprus? Was he supposed to drink champagne at the time by the Serbian Finance Minister or the minister of Cyprus's finance? How long will that man threaten anyone who has something to say? So I'm looking for an answer to that. I'm also asking if he's on the State Department's blacklist, and I have that State Department report. And how then will his official brand Serbia, where, in Mongolia or some other undefined meridians, where they have never heard of Serbia. Everyone's quiet, no media is allowed to announce it, because it's ruled by awe. I'm finishing up. You'll let me say something for another minute. On behalf of the DHSS, and in my personal name, I would like to express my condolences to the family of the tragically injured Macedonian singer Tose Proeski, Parliament of Macedonia, the citizens of Macedonia, and I think that perhaps the heads of the parliamentary clubs should agree, if not done, after I was absent, that the minute of silence should be given to the man who did not separate, but joined, who loved Serbia and whom Serbia loved. We don't always have to be conventional and post-poo do it when it comes to statesmen or someone else. Let's show one human dimension to someone many people in Serbia loved and to whom Serbia was a second country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8232	The word is made by MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8233	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, these two decisions we have received today, namely regarding the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, are two points that are very important and for which I must stress, LDP MPs also supported the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector when we voted for them here in the Assembly. However, I must agree with one of my predecessors who said that both Mr. Sabic and Mr. Jankovic are here today. No matter what you like, Mr. Albianic, to say that he can but he doesn't, I think it would be my turn to have them here and answer some of the questions that have just been asked to them and that we're going to ask in the following debate, which I'm going to try to ask now. What is most important to me is whether the Trustee and Protector will have the support of the state's institutions, whether they will have public support in their work. We witnessed yesterday, today, and also in the past that the Commissioner, Mr. Sabic, was facing major obstacles in his work. It happened that Master Ilic refused to give him the information he asked for and which are of public importance, along with a series of insults, calling it all kinds of names. I think that someone whom the Assembly has chosen and the importance of the work he is doing is very respectable, and we must give support to these people and we must not allow the passion of some parts of the government towards him. We are also witnesses, Mr Batic said earlier, that there are still some institutions that should be held by the state. These are, above all, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Competition Protection Commission. Heika, who is being led against such institutions, speaks most of all about the state itself. The LDP and its MPs will always support every "European law", but every law that brings us closer to European standards. However, we would not like such laws, such decisions, and at all such institutions to be just a front, that they do not actually do their job in the way it would have been planned. I must say, there are some other institutions that are under a great deal of pressure or some institutions that should be established, and they are not founded, say, the President of the Parliament, Mr Dulic, has also made a public promise and has a legal obligation to form a lustration commission. So he's the one who's supposed to propose some candidates, according to the law has that obligation, even publicly promised to do so. For several months, however, none of this has been happening. I fear that according to the Trustee and the Protector there will be no such situation, that they will be formally supported, as one predecessor said, along with the great benefits they will have, with a tremendously large number of employees, and that the real effect will not be seen, or that there will be some financing. As for these rules on job systematization, the question must be asked whether the number of employees will really fit the job that needs to be done. From what we've heard, it's a tremendously large number of employees, it's going to be in various municipalities and cities, and we'd really like it to work the right way. As MPs, we will make our contribution, of course LDP MPs will try to in some way, having chosen them ourselves, to exercise some control over their work, and we expect it from the public, but we expect the most from the ruling coalition, or the ruling majority, to give all our strength to both the Trustee and the Protector have every opportunity to do their job. Will they be independent, do these high wages mentioned here speak of being independent or perhaps saying that they will be influenced by whoever has given them these great wages? We sincerely hope that unlike some institutions in this country, they will indeed be independent. We really expect that our work will work as is done by the Council for Corruption or the Competition Protection Commission, and that we here, and in general the Government, and the State, and all the ministries that are competent to support these people and give support to those bodies that are doing a very responsible job. So, LDP MPs, despite the desire to find Mr. Sabic and Mr. Jankovic here, the Commissioner and Protector, despite some of the questions we wanted to ask them, we will vote for these decisions because we saw that about a year ago, about the ninth month, as Mr. Sabic himself in a letter he sent us, at a session of the Administrative Board, there was agreement on these decisions, that is, this act, on September 12th 2006, and the Assembly never stated it. I think we should get to the bottom of this. We will support this, but with one fence, that with all our capacity we will try to accompany the work of these independent institutions, namely to make sure that these institutions are truly independent and that they have all the support of both MPs and the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8234	The word is from the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, president of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8235	As the DS has advocated the establishment of the Information Commissioner's institution and the Citizens' Protector, so we also advocate that they create the conditions necessary for the responsible performance of this function. We really think that in the process of building a democratic society and establishing democratic institutions these two institutions are taking an extremely important place and they are, above all, concerned with two key issues of democracy. The first question is public interest and rights and the availability of information that is of public interest, and the second question is the protection of citizens of all forms of abuse of government, administration. As far as the acts themselves are concerned, we have no objections to them because, esteeming what these institutions need to do, what kind of work they should do, we don't think that the number of people and the way the proposed service structure is neither too large nor in any formic sense is pre-named, that there are too many functions or functionaries. The fact is that the Guardian of Citizens has a need, to successfully carry out his job, to have his offices and right in the middle where citizens exercise their rights before the administration and where it is possible to violate their rights, and where the administration, in fact, abuse their position, harms citizens. That's why that number is bigger, but it's just a necessary assumption to do this job. What is often asked is whether they will be truly independent and whether they will work in accordance with their powers, beyond any political or party influence. What DS can say is that everything we do, we do to create conditions for them to really be independent institutions, past and beyond any political influence. In that sense, we will give all possible support, which they need to achieve that position, to give them. At the same time, the question arises whether the contributions they receive are supposed to be better work, i.e. for a higher degree of independence or for a higher degree of obedience. So we remain convinced that these people will do their job with honor, responsibly and very professionally, and of course we remain obliged to, following their work, analyse their work, at any moment, if it turns out that they are not doing so in accordance with the law and regulations, this assembly has the opportunity to react and to take moves that will bring them back on track. So, the DS will vote in favour of these acts, because we really consider it a fundamental assumption that these two very important democratic institutions could work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8236	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8237	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a replica of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's presentation, because I am the only one on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group asking whether the Citizens' Protector will spread across Serbia as the National Office of Boris Tadic and whether this is the purpose and the number of employees. Of course, what I wanted to say to you, Mrs. Kolundjia, is not well interpreted. Now I'm going to explain, nothing personal or anything controversial. I only remind myself that the Citizens' Protectors have all the municipalities, that there is a possibility and there is a legal possibility in every local self-government, in every city that the Assembly of the Municipality or the City Assembly has appointed the Protectors of Citizens, and indeed in a number of municipalities and cities the job has already been completed. So if we have citizens' protectors at the level of local self-government, then there's no need for this supreme, from a republican level, to have some kind of exposure to local self-government. It is enough to establish normal communication, that if the one at the local level can't solve the problem, or to address the problem that is in the jurisdiction of this protector at the republican level, then, of course, that one, from the local level, will inform the Protector at the republican level, and thus they can communicate, and they don't need any, let alone five civil servants in position. Of course, I was stressing that we really think, when you've already chosen these people, that you must, or that we have to provide them with the conditions. But we still don't know if these people have working conditions. We don't know if these people have offices, where their offices are located. They're probably getting paid, and that's not good. If they have no place to sit and what to do for three months, because the government and the Assembly have not given them conditions to work, then they shouldn't even be paid. I think that's very clear, but our position on these proposals is precisely, I pointed out, depending on the answer to all our questions asked. We have now definitely understood that there is no one who can answer our questions, and therefore, I repeat again, we will not vote for this, especially since it is obvious that this is a lot associated with the National Office of Boris Tadic and that it is preparing for future elections, that only one party campaign in Serbia is being run again by state money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8238	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8239	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for Articles 225 and 226. Mr. Batic just spoke, but I have to look back on that. A scandalous threat came out in yesterday's newspaper by Miroslav Miskovic, the owner of the Delta Holding, who referred the threat. I will be free to quote -- that his attorney team will press charges against anyone who makes a lie about the Delta Company or its management, regardless of whether the statement comes from state institutions, political officials, public figures or media. I have spoken with this pay phone several times about the gentleman mentioned, and I would like to say this time that I will certainly not call for parliamentary immunity, but I would like to make sure that his team of lawyers from London presses charges, but I would like him to prove that he was not involved in the smuggling of tobacco, that he is not involved in the great affairs that rock this country. I would like to prove that he is not a monopoly, that the Competition Protection Commission has proved that he holds more than 60% of the market when it comes to trade, that that is not true. I really think it is inappropriate that no state body responds to this kind of threat, which comes from, we can say freely, the actual owner of Serbia, the person who is head of the import lobby, who has participated in many illegal affairs. The answer I received today from Minister Jocic to some of the parliamentary questions, which were asked about a month ago, is completely independent. So, Mr. Miskovic, who is the largest tycoon in this country, will not save either that he was Deputy Prime Minister in one of Milosevic's governments, nor that he was protected in the 1990s, and the only one who could pay customs for 45 days at the time of the biggest inflation, when everyone had to pay it within 1, 2 or 8 days, does not matter. So, the privileged position Mr. Miskovic had won't last forever. What else is important? There is no personal relationship with Mr. Miskovic here. The problem is that everything Mr. Miskovic gets, he drains and resells. He didn't invest anything in producing this country. The only thing he does is import. The interest of citizens is such that citizens cannot pay, because Miskovic owns certain companies, the most expensive "Nick" shoes, the most expensive "Zara", the most expensive products of the wide variety in the chains of his trading companies. Time's up, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8240	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) So far, applications for the word have been submitted by the SPS and the SRS. Let's get a line on the speakers. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8241	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, above all, as far as the Citizens' Protectors are concerned, the Socialist Party once again wanted to see first of all the will of the state, whether the public's protector would really have the place he was supposed to have in the country. In light of this, I would first of all like to remind myself that the law was passed in 2005, and the fact is that we are the Protector, also called the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and the parliamentary representative for the administration, and the Commissioner for Human Rights, and the People's Lawyer, depending on the state in which he works and works, that he was elected only on 23 July 2007, almost two years after the day of the law. This is an indication of how much the state actually cares about human and minority rights, human rights and freedoms, the control of its authorities and local self-government, the control of the Republic's public defender, the control of bodies and organisations, institutions and companies entrusted with public authority. And then, if we look back on the law a little bit, it's in accordance with Articles 38 and 40. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, first of all by looking at this notice, we saw that the Assembly had already violated and committed the first violation of the law, because this was to be put on the agenda before the second regular session began. So this topic was supposed to be discussed by law this summer, during an emergency session. If that were the case, however, this is not the first time that the current assembly majority violates the law and does not respect what it has chosen. Then another announcement of another new legal offense, which is that the explanation says that this service will be filled in gradually, in accordance with the human resources plan that has been made, on an annual basis, for each year in particular. I would like to remind you that Article 40 of Section 2 clearly states what is the legal time limit and that it is set, that it exists, in which this service must be completed. Of course, no one cares about that, and that information is being ignored here. Then we rightly ask ourselves, how many more years will this service be filled in, how many years will it be, that practically its workers receive good wages, and that in fact only fictitiously exist and do not do their job, and here is the opportunity for the Protector himself to defend himself first of all against breaking the law against him himself. The reason remains that it is planned to systematise 59 civil servants and four deputies, although this is more than the one that was planned in the first act. Then the observation that someone has concluded that that too is not enough, that this kind of work takes 150 employees, which means that this systematization did not include practically half of the people that this institution normally needs to function, so the Socialist Party wonders whether there are actually excuses in advance for a fictional existence, and inaction with the jurisdiction of the institutions. What competences will actually be lacking in the work, whether those powers that work on the complaints of people deprived of freedom, children's rights, gender equality, the rights of national minorities, people with disabilities. Or perhaps jurisdiction when an initiative is launched by the Government and the National Assembly for proposals for amendments to laws, regulations, and other general acts or for the initiation of new laws, regulations and other general acts, for which a citizen will be given an idea in the course of his work. Or in the act of launching an initiative before the Constitutional Court for those laws which it considers to be incompatible with the laws and the Constitution. Should I mention again the fact that the Constitutional Court in this country still does not exist and that there is no good will to make it, and it is known to whom it corresponds and who in all things profites. Or it will harm the sector's competence for general affairs, which also have its place in the functioning of such an institution. The fact is another, that the budget is well planned for this institution, that the budget is even higher than the budget foreseen for the administrative court, which was due to begin on 1 January 2007, but has not begun. On this occasion, I want to remind the public, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only that the administrative court has not begun to work, not only is there no Constitutional Court, but there are no appeals, there are no cassation courts, which means that someone is in such a deviating state in our judiciary as he is right now. And then if you consider what the Protector's capabilities really are, here's what his options are. It can launch an initiative, it can initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, it can publicly recommend the resolution of officials, initiate the launch of a disciplinary procedure or require the initiation of criminal, criminal and other proceedings. Given the fact that we have today's judiciary, what other authorities are like today, that is, how they function, the Socialist Party of Serbia expresses one suspicion that this institution will do what needs to be done in the first place, and it seems to us that it is a giant on glass legs and with straw fists. Here's an example, an example of where millions of people are breaking the law, which is an example of a pensioner. The pensioners could have addressed the Citizens' Protector, but still addressed the Socialist Party of Serbia, because they believe it might be more effective, referring to the illegal admission of their pensions, which at this point are about 50% in line with the average salary in Serbia, and we know that the Socialist Party has made the right of pensioners to be 60%. Here's a chance for the Guardian to react to this fact if he has any good will. Also, if we touch the right of a child, does anyone need other rights than the right to survive? If I said this morning according to the Rules of Procedure what are the conditions for getting a child's allowance, what is this child's supplement, what are the ways to come, how many documents should be prepared to achieve such a fictitious child's supplement. Also, in further consideration, we believe that the Citizens' Protector does not have to copy the state in all segments, because it is ultimately placed between the people and the state and that members of the Board of Appeal could not choose the Protector himself, but practically people from the ranks of state officials who work, above all those in the executive jobs, and even when it comes to the work of the larger, the Board of Appeals, we believe that they should not be paid at the held session, but on a flat-rate basis, as it would be morally, in the end, because any other payment could lead to abuse. The Socialist Party did not vote this summer, the Socialist Party will not vote this time. As for the Commissioner, the State has made more and more efforts to declare its position on the Trustee, and in the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter, Article 1, it pointed out that this is a service of special importance. But let's look into the facts. The law was passed in 2004, but it only started on 23 May 2005, i.e. only then did the National Assembly approve the general acts necessary for it to begin work. It was supposed to approve and systematize and begin to obtain adequate equipment, to find adequate working rooms. The fact is, it wasn't nearly anything. The Commissioner himself pointed out, publicly pointed out, that none of this was planned. He made a statement that the first six months had not even had an office to work in, that at first only six people worked, that an adequate space had not been found, that adequate equipment had not been obtained, and that it had not even had a jury account to pay a certain amount to obtain a photocopy of a document carrying public information, which was essentially the way it should work. Further, the Commissioner said that the budget was planned, but that there was not enough realisation of resources for the education of staff or anything else that enabled him to do a serious job, an adequate work for what he was actually set up for. Sam also said that there were many affairs, that in these affairs there were many people from the government, that these affairs were mostly just affairs and that many solutions were not respected, and also that many information had not been received, especially when information concerns one part of the government compared to the other part of the government. Another information is that in July 2006, when the Law on State Employees and the Law on State Employees' Salaries was amended, the Trustee made his decision on the work of the Trustee's Service to the Administrative Committee, with the fact that it was practically only a matter of compliance with the new law, that there was no change of systemization. The Management Board, which means most of the board, and it's known who seems to be most of the committees, hasn't found it appropriate for three months to respond to all of this. It was only after three months that he was told orally, I say, that opinion is positive, but this is not put on the agenda until today. It's only with a new amendment to the Law on Civil Service and Salaries that this comes to the agenda. Finally, if we remember the fact that both the Commissioner and the Protector were not elected after the adoption of the new Constitution within the constitutional deadline, here we are as the state refers to these two institutions. That probably answered someone, because someone could ask a question, where the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget were for 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. But it was someone's answer to show these final accounts to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or not until this year. It waited five, six years for these final accounts, yet they were not delivered according to those legal principles that had to be respected in one such procedure. Imagine that a small company now, a small firm, has not delivered its jury account in time, or its final account? The consequences for it would be catastrophic, so much so that it could not continue its work, precisely by those who do not respect the adoption of a final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. After all, we also believe that here, both the Board of Appeal and the Protector and the Trustee have chosen, they have given themselves the right to set up a commission like this so that it will only seal what they decide. We think that paying a bigger appeal commission like this would actually be just one instrument for buying and selling workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8242	The People's MP Jadranko Vukovic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to my predecessors and I would agree with my colleague Baralic, who told this speaker that the authority of the MPs must be protected in this institution. As a MP, I can expect a valid answer to a asked parliamentary question from the resolution ministers in the Serbian government or to receive any notice in the performance of the MP, when Rodoljub Sabic, whom you support here, the ruling majority, gives him any kind of support, regrets that he is denied from certain information from certain resolution ministries. So you're giving him support, and you're keeping him from doing his job. So you chose him here, we didn't choose him, so we won't give him any support. Why did I say I agree with my colleague Baralic that an MP must be protected in this high house? Because we, I would like to quote concrete examples of our own, are deprived of receiving valid and precise answers from the Serbian government. So now I'm using, Mr. Albianic, to ask two additional questions to the Serbian government and one new one. On July 17th 2007, I asked the Serbian government, or the minister, for the second time, about a decision on a sign of belonging to the Serbian Army and the rank marks, where I pointed out that Mr Tadic illegally and counter-constitutionally made this kind of decision, which does not belong to the military's leadership and command, for which he is the sole authority. So for the second time I've repeated that, ladies and gentlemen, I've received an answer to something I haven't asked for. I am informed, this was signed by Mr Djelic, that the army is being commanded by the president of the Republic of Serbia. That's not what I'm arguing about. Mr Tadic is also in command of Serbia's new Constitution. However, he is not in charge of making decisions, nor is he related to acts. So now I ask the Serbian Government an additional question, to clarify this for a simple reason, and I will also comment on this answer with a few sentences. Boris Tadic, as president of Serbia, cannot apply the Constitution of Serbia directly, as the constitution is the basis for the adoption of laws governing these issues. In particular, the powers of Serbia's president, Mr Micunovic, regarding management and command are not specified by the Constitution, but by law. So he can't, using the Constitution, make decisions like this. There's another interesting question, ladies and gentlemen. I think this is interesting for the ruling furniture, a question I asked on July 18th. I ask that we be presented with a report from the commission that included Vladan Batic, Milovanovic and Vjevinov, which was to establish the causes of the Special Operations Unit's rebellion. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the answer, and you'll understand why this is important. "The official records of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia found that no reception of the commission's report, which determined the causes of the Special Operations Unit's rebellion, was recorded. The report was not found after talks with the then chief and deputy chief of cabinet of the minister, as well as Chief of Public Security Resor. "In signature, Dragan Jocic. Since Mr. Minister has not found a report from this commission, I now request the same report from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, his cabinet, from his closest associates. Third, I have so far asked for further explanations on these two issues, asking the Serbian government if it has established a proposal for a defence strategy of the Serbian Army or if it has been established by Dragan Sutanovac, when he was on a course in America or if I don't know where. Who has established this official text for a public debate? Why am I asking this, ladies and gentlemen? You've all seen a strategic defence review, there's a debate going on, there's NGOs running, everyone's having a debate on the defence strategy, except us MPs. What's interesting is I'm asking about coalition partners who openly advocated the NATO integration of our army and defence in this payphone and in public appearances. I read a carefully proposed defence strategy under discussion, where every other word is NATO. The strategic interests of the Republic of Serbia's foreign policy have been enhanced by regional co-operation and full membership in NATO. This is a long-term plan, the short-term priorities are to join the Partnership for Peace Programme and sign Stabilisation and Association Agreements to the European Union. I am interested, I repeat precisely, in whether the Serbian government supports Dragan Sutanovac and the Democratic Party's initiative to join NATO integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8244	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, has the word, followed by Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8245	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, right to true intelligence. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Micunovic, not to disturb me, be a little more polite when I speak or listen or come out, you're distracting me, because you're staring at the assembly bench just now as Dr. Dimitrijevic and Mr. Vukovic spoke, and if you're nervous, you come out. So here I'm talking about very serious issues. The right to notification is a fundamental and constitutionally guaranteed right. Since it has been three years since the town of Kragujevac, under the Law on Local Self-Government, which was brought in 2004, established ombudsman, yesterday for self-revelation and is a kind of exhibitionism, the Mayor of the city of Kragujevac, hired the agency Strategic Marketing – as she likes to call herself Strategic Marketing, she boasts among other things about her failures and the disaster – and one of the questions asked to the citizens was what your impression of the work of the Citizens' Protector, i.e. the City Ombudsman. That's what I'm saying because Kragujevac got ahead of it before this Jankovic was appointed here recently at the level of the Republic, because the Ombudsman institution itself was brought to the wings of the five-octobaric coup in Serbia, and we, as MPs, remember that in 2001, were buried with various brochures about what a Ombudsman, or protector of citizens, could do. Then we joked, and you know, in the visprendous and brightest spirit of our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, when he performed at the assembly pay phone and warned them, as it had just appeared as a novelty, that it was indeed an institution that was going to be mocked in Serbia. Because the prerequisite for the Ombudsman, the public defender and the information trustee - here is now the post-festum doing this systematization - to have basic conditions to do their job is to work in a society that is not so and with such a degree of crime and corruption. As of this morning, we've heard examples and articles from the press, and yesterday and again we've talked about it, citizens in 68%, as far as they've been said, some empirical study two years ago, seems to me to be from an organization whose name I won't mention, recognized by local self-government, so from the local community through the municipal authority of the administration to the top of the state government, in that percentage, 68%, corruption. The question then arises, what is the role of one man and his entire apparatus, this Jankovic, who is not as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says is a completely unburdened, politically impartial figure, we know very well, and we discussed his case when he was elected to the post. You have the same case with Rodoljub Šabić. We had to change the law because of Šabić how much spring or summer we had to change the law so that he would fold until the end of his term, since he had already started him unconditionally and walking here through the halls of the Assembly, without any possibility of doing anything, had no office, phone, basic conditions. Now, therefore, we have come into a situation that, after so many years, from the story of protecting citizens, that a man, who represents a new institute in the country, on the wings of a new democratic development, can do so, but only needs a service to do the job. That's not true. In addition to our criticism, expressed by the authorised representative of Radeta's colleague, that this is a bulky apparatus that will be available to officials and deputies, both the one and the other elected and the Commissioner for Information and the Protector of Citizens, but because of the fact that they should stand up to a state apparatus that has deeply stepped into crime and corruption. I can illustrate that to you now, like many of you, on a million examples. This is best known by these presidents of municipalities in Serbia and the successful presidents of Serbian Radicals municipalities. What is the path from the initial move of the municipality of Radical, which wants to develop and which wants new projects, to the realization of this project, and to what barriers, in the right sense of footing, these people come to the top of the state government, to the state administration, to have to wait for a few months, per year, or, if that degree of disabling is so much, because it's a radical, and two years at a time. Each of them and each of these citizens can ask Shabic and Jankovic about it. Then how they just get and what efficiency information. This systematization wasn't made up at a session of the National Assembly's Administrative Board, nor did they invent something, it's already projects, you know, that have been made up. Now, when I found, here, that brochure from 2001, which came from abroad, which tells me what is the description of the work of an ombudsman, the public defender, would see clearly there that already envisaged how much this apparatus should be and how it should exist in sectors, as it says here, the public intelligence sector for information of public importance. You can see that none of them have ever taken their chance so far, except when they're indicated by someone, so make them. You literally have to poke that Shabic, like a needle any minute to poke him like that voodoo doll and tell him, "Come on now, react to this robbery, let's react to that, come on, look for information about this abuse, then he's struggling, so he says, they gave him, they didn't give him, so the next day you give him space in the paper and then he's either telling the public something or he doesn't say anything. So it's all a farce. Here, again, I return to the dissatisfaction of Kragujevcan, among other things, the disaster of being dissatisfied with Stevanovic's work, he is a completely incompetent man to manage as much of the city, the budget and those public enterprises, as well as his team who has chosen unhappily. And those coalition partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8246	Keep an eye on the dictionary you're using.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8247	Come on, shut up, Mr. Albianich, listen carefully and then tell me, when I get back up to your place, what's wrong with you, don't interrupt me in the middle of this educational story. So, the Ombudsman in Kragujevac, who exists for three years, only in one city, ladies and gentlemen, here is my witness, as well as my smallness, a committee member, and even better knows Mr. Vukevic from New Serbia, who certainly criticises the work of Veroljub Stevanović, the Ombudsman has received more than 7,000 complaints from citizens about the work of the city administration and public utility companies in just two and a half years of his work. When it's so much in one city, imagine with how many letters and with how many complaints Serbian citizens, disreputed workers, dissatisfied pensioners, students, various associations, associations of citizens will bury this Jankovic. And even this kind of apparatus, which is too massive, isn't enough, because efficiency won't achieve it because it doesn't have associates on the other side. When ministers who come to this hall, think about it, it is really a matter that is so obvious, they come to the meeting of the National Assembly, the president called them, the representatives were authorized, the motions of an act, will not be here from the scene to respond to the MPs. One minute he comes in, then he comes out. They're acting so unscheduled. Here, Mr. Vukovic just told you and what kind of unsuspecting answers these are, they humiliate him as a national representative, each of us when we ask them at committee meetings, but we'll easily, we'll tell you tomorrow, we'll make an appointment next time, you'll get a written answer. Imagine, then, what a martyr, some citizen, will do when he comes and knocks on the door or speaks with a letter. Then the citizens write to us. They see and say, "Listen, you Serbian radicals are the only protectors of this people who have been robbed, of this deposed world." Now, I'm going to bring it up to you on the students' case, not to mention that we're just talking about the most socially endangered, but the students are threatened because their parents aren't working and they're paying such high school fees. Here, the latest case from Kragujevac, because it is now the strongest, the continuation of that "index" affair, you know what happened there and you know how much it was destroyed in those months by authority, not the entire Kragujeva University, has been dumped on the city, but it is also a cultural and university centre in that part of Serbia, but it has been set up, that is, the new dean of the Faculty of Law, a certain Dusica Palačković. It may or may not mean a name to you, she appeared in all those days as someone who made comments on the "index" affair, and the lady came up with a fantastic idea that students, whose tuitions were increased, or introduced as such since October 5th, and now reached amazing figures, seemed to me 140,000 for the architectural college, right, Professor Poscurica, or for electrotechnically maybe even more, but, let's say that's about 100,000 in Kragujevac, for those who failed to be in the budget number of students. A woman's two probation periods have been abolished. That's how she solved it. She suggested it. It's a dean. And now, because she allegedly came to save the whole situation after what happened, no one can tell her anything. Here's how many days it's been, a thousand students signed a petition and complains about it. Who's gonna protect them? Well, they'll pass by who knows how many test deadlines until they reach this Jankovic or, say, now listens to this Rodoljub Sabic what I'm saying and he says - yeah, with a trail of that information, so he doesn't have to, and by the nature of his function, he doesn't just have to get written information or a written request, he can go, if he's safe to do business and say, is it true what Natasa Jovanovic is saying or Jadranko Vukovic, Verica Radeta, any radical, let's go and see what's going on here. Do you know when he'll get the information? Somewhere around New Year's or after Christmas. Then it's all declassified. What are we talking about here? About the accumulation of paper and administration to the torment of peoples and citizens? Come on, you be the authority to brag about it, so say, quickly, everything is effectively solved by the state's organs. Among other things, citizens, as they complain about the inability to, in the administration belonging to the competent ministries of the Government of Serbia, also cannot do to the authorities of local self-government, see, as is the example of the town of Kragujevac, because this is the defeating act of this research that Stevanovic ordered, cannot exercise their rights. Then it is a very long way for this systematization itself to be implemented to the end, and only to get the right information, that is, in Serbia, where tycoons, thieves, criminals are protected as white bears, are simply amazing. Judges work for them, corruption is in the judiciary, and we always build and say, so not all judges are corrupt, right, and not all prosecutors, and not all deputies, but look at what's done in Belgrade courts. Here are the lawyers Jerkovic and others from the SRS, Mr Koprivica, Mr Jojic, who will tell you, and how criminals are protected in courts, and who does everything for them, and what we point to for so many years. When I think in terms of voter support, more than a third of Serbian citizens vote for us, with a tendency to be God and people's will 50 per cent in the next election, we cannot get the information we need, for days we need to use the mechanism that we are allowed to do, such as the Belgrade city and such a constitutional and illegal election by Zoran Alimpic, imagine how some workers, who now have no place to complain here or anyone here in the assembly committees, are fired from work or not respecting the social programme. Here, a lady came to us the other day and showed the municipal court's executive verdict in Kragujevac for the company Ortotex, what we can tell her, Dr. Poscurica or me or any other MP -- now you have the right to appeal. It's 600 women who are one day driven out into the street, who knows, who doesn't even know who that mobster bought it anymore. So from one city to another, from business to business, not to mention those who need it, it's just a painful story, they'll tell Dr. Paja Momchilov, health care later. You now have to, and there are many citizens of Serbia, there are over a million of them, if they are on the labour bureau, or on the state employment records, to prove that you are the one who doesn't have a job. Imagine what humiliation it is for people, here, and this should be done by the Protector of citizens or the Trustee of Information, that they must, because of such a decision by Tomica Milosavljevic, so the Minister, the Government, he personifies the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this Svetlana Vukajlović, who protects and does not give it, in any other sense, must not let her, in any way, pathologically bound man to her, so you can see that she is not to be removed from the position of the Director of the Republic SIZ of Health, and you must prove that you are an unemployed person. How did they decide to do that? Which communists, 45 after the war, bring in two witnesses. Well, you can come out there, it's in Kragujevac on Svetozar Markovic Street, there's another street in another town, and you can ask some passerby, and they're just lurking, believe me, the streets of the city at work, because they don't have anywhere, people are out of work and you say, come in, please, and give a statement there, do you have a ID card on you -- I have, please, testify that I don't have any income, that I'm an unemployed person, because otherwise I can't get a health book. Is something wrong, colleague Vukovic? (President: You go ahead. ) Strange things happen, Mr. Albianic, you have to react to both appearances, to people and to events in this congregation arena, to concentrate a little, he can't concentrate on me. I'm talking about disbursed people who don't have a health book, you have a health book and five pay cards, probably, in their pocket, and then one goes and I get it here. I really can't figure out where Serbia came from, believe me. Let's talk humanly, to talk like people who need to go out among neighbors, among friends, among our fellow citizens, not to say after me, someone shows up, so they say, well that's demagogy. You know it's not, and you're going, and it's not going to go to these heads of yours, it's not going to go to Tadic or Kostunica, it's some kind of autism. They call their rapes and say, "What's going on out there?" I keep imagining Kostunica, some membling around him, he's sitting there all the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8248	Please take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8249	Well, to my metaphors and my picturesque display, and to my power of rhetoric, you can't react helplessly like that and above all, as I would say, in a way jealously to interrupt me. (President: it is my duty to warn you. Then you practice, watch, study a little. You know, rhetoric is the power you can practice, which is of God's service to you. Now I'm supposed to tell you -- oh, dear, Mr. Albian, because you can't do it that way, you're a decimated man. You're a good addition, you're solving equations. Let me talk, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia, and they understand me perfectly what I want to say to them. So it's amazing how disfigured every citizen is today. Even one who has a regular job. Here we are also talking about women's rights these days and how they are threatened, such as Mrs. Bankovic in Knic, whom they could not have, did not respond, did not her colleague react, or the Citizens' Protector, nor did Shabic ask for that information. I came as a colleague to ask for information from you because we have an opposition committee group there and none of our committee members wanted to participate in such an honorable act. It's just that if we open up a few days or a few weeks ago, you'll see that this basically doesn't mean anything. People will come by staged competitions, like these two political figures, and so will those who have a certain calling, professional occupation, get a job, and when, you know, in that old saying "to the Thessaloniki table of lemons," they will come up with the right information for the citizens, that's a big question. I think it is clear to everyone in Serbia today that this performance of mine today and every speech of the SRS MPs in the right sense of the word should be an invitation for these citizens to address us. They know, as they address the President of the Assembly and all vice-presidents of the Committee, that we cannot resolve here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that issue. But unlike everyone else and unlike these two who are silent in front of obvious abuses and everything that's going on in the country, we're going to say it. Are you going to interrupt me, my colleague Albianic, whether someone else is going to sit in your seat, whether it's going to be a member of this or that Rules of Procedure, it's irrelevant, but not only because of our conscience, but because the public needs to know, we will always say such things. I think it's the size of every Serbian radical, every man who wants to do this job with honor and honesty that the people have chosen him to do, because not say and remain silent before the facts that are inexorable, and who hide some crime, some abuse, malfeasance, is above all a great sin, and especially because the political punishment will eventually come to any one who participates in these wicked acts. We've told you so many times, and when we talk about your party, I mean your colleague, and about G17, and about Dinkic, Jelasic... Yes, it is, about these thieves, and when we talk about these robberies and abuses...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8250	Miss Jovanovic, take care. Reuse terms that are not allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8251	You see, the people and the representatives of the people, and Mr. Todorovic and the other MPs of the SRS, they just soak and earn what the people say about them, and you mean it intimately, but you can't say it. Well, there will come a day when you too will have to do a lot of things that our people would say, say or preach. But, well, in any case, when we tell you, you know, since you come from different backgrounds, I'm talking to your DS colleagues, the DSS, and New Serbia, from G17, you know that's the whole truth. You can't react at that point. Maybe one of you would like to, but the bill -- well, that's it, now I'm going to keep quiet, let someone deal with other these issues, let someone at the top solve it, and in that time, time goes by, Serbia loses more and more every day and loses citizens. I think that has to get in the way. I would invite Mr. Sabic, whether he is following this or not, but let all those who are his party comrades by yesterday, not Mr. Meho Omerovic, but perhaps you will meet him somewhere, Mr. Albianic, to tell him that the citizens of Serbia have told him that the most important information is of public importance in Serbia, because he is the Commissioner for Information, and that the most important thing today is that citizens in Serbia, the entire patriotic Serbia, and those who have believed all those who have destroyed our country and people, is to get information about the trial, a process that anti-Serbian Hague casamat will lead from the seventh, as they announced, in November against our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. So if he's already getting this kind of state apparatus and he's already a man who's trying to listen to what the citizens are looking for, here I am telling him from the pay phone that hundreds of thousands of people, and already in two weeks, Mr. Todorovic is going to tell you how true it is, that's an impressive figure, that is, the number of citizens who pay the subscription, asking to secure a public transfer at the RTS trial to our president. Let Mr. Sabic go ahead, and let him address Tijanic, and let him say - I am informed, or let him look for information, may he say from the state authorities and organisations, let him address Mr. Todorovic's letter, at the end of the action, I call on the citizens to continue to give their signatures to support this proposal, he will get final information and he will see that it is a huge number of people, and in that case, if he fails to vote for it, or this civil protectionist, with Tijanic and the Management Board, to resign as a moral act. But I don't think they should joke about that thing, because it's so obvious and clear that citizens will, because it's the most signed in Serbia's history for some kind of support and support for one man. But it's not just any man, it's Professor Vojislav Seselj, today the greatest Serbian hero, the one who will defend us and defend us. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8252	The word has an MP, Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8253	Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, here we are today considering among other things the proposal for a systematization of the Ombudsman. Looking at what we got from this material, I kind of think we should have created some preconditions or conditions first of all so we could talk about the Ombudsman, whether at a local or a republican level. What are our preconditions? What do we guarantee the protection of citizens? What do we promise citizens, according to this proposal, that we will protect them and stand behind them? Here are the examples. Examples are that if someone works honestly, according to the law and tries to fight for what they want to be punished. For example, lately, the most prominent and most famous example is the hunger strike for Vuk Bojovic. Mr. Vuk Bojovic has been on the hunger strike for 10 days to prove that he worked by law, to preserve his space, seven acres in the centre of the city within the Kalemegdan. Mr. Vuk Bojovic, who regularly paid the state tax, who regularly paid land rent, which allowed us when we were young and our children today to make a truly fantastic zoo of European standards out of a hole we had. Let's not lie to each other. What's this all about? From the moment it was sold "BEKO" and "BEKO" for the second time affects the attack of the zoo, for the first time in 41 years, when there was a bombing, then fortunately, no bomb, no single bullet fell on the zoo. However, the zoo is now threatened, because Beko was sold, and it is likely that the area in the centre of the city of seven hectares, so little more if it connects to that area of Beka, corresponds to the authorities to sell to tycoons, and for money they will somehow manage to make everyone happy. That's the only reason we suspect and the reason to move out the zoo. Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic says this - the zoo cannot be in that place because we want to modernise. Modernization involves destruction. How is this about destroying? Gentlemen, if the zoo is removed, there is an alternative solution to the city's authorities, and what is their solution? The solution is, I don't know exactly, but not to tell the opposite of the truth, maybe somewhere in Surchin's or I don't know where to make a safari. Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic, if she used to go to a safari or if you didn't go, you know that safari needs a huge space. Safari doesn't mean five acres, not fifty acres, but it means 800, 900 and 1000 acres, because I guess we know from what we've learned what safaris mean. So, for the new zoo, we're gonna set aside the money we've set out for new kindergartens, new schools, and I don't know what, and we're gonna move this zoo out, so we don't even know why we actually know, because we need that space downtown. Second, a few days ago, locals were destroyed by people who had restaurants in the zoo or in Calemegdan for 20 years. From reliable sources, I'm telling you, I didn't bring those papers, but I can bring them to you, that directly Vuk Bojovic had nothing of those places that were set up there, except that he wanted people to be able to work and somehow survive. They worked 20 years, so to tell them in the end, it takes one piece of paper. They wouldn't let them, they didn't wait for people to get that paper. I agree, if they couldn't get that paper, let them crash, work against the law. But they did not wait, but in the crash solution it was written - the appeal does not delay the execution. So they came with some baggers, with some huge machines, I don't even know what they were called and totally annulled, destroyed something that was the source of income for 20 years for people who lived on it and left their families without bread. Next, we have an example in France, the old Belgrade citizens know it. Mr. Jevrem Popovic in France has had a ticket for 200 years. It was a meadow that poured bells, until then we imported, we had to import bells from Pest, Paris and Rome. They came, the city's government, to the ground up that meadow, which could have been turned into a museum, after 200 years, collapsed. All right, I agree, it's possible that this meadow shouldn't be standing in France Street, it's possible it doesn't fit with some outsider of the city or not us what, but there's a way. It was always the way that mattered. We all differ in the way we speak, and we all speak Serbian, and we all know how many Cyrillics there are. So it's an important way. They come and say, sir, it can no longer stand there, which is why we're moving you out, here's another location, and not so Kabadish, it doesn't lead to anything. How now the people, that the citizens of Serbia believe that if you set up an Ombudsman, whether at a republican or local level, will it protect them and help them when the conditions are what I said. You just heard in Mrs. Verica Radete's statement that they're putting between the republican and local ombudsman five civil servants in position, so they're hiring five people. I'll believe them if they put people in those places who've been torn down by kiosks or who've been taken away from the bread lately. Now, let them employ them, then we will truly believe in the truthfulness of the Ombudsman. I don't think this way can work. First, trust must be gained in the work so far, and then when the people begin to trust you, then they will also believe that the Ombudsman will truly be the protector of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8254	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and then a National MP named Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always wonder if those who write proposals for acts that come into the procedure of the Serbian Parliament read these acts and whether they are read by MPs of the ruling coalition who will vote for them. When it comes to the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Service of the Commissioner for Public Information, what first falls into the eyes is chronology, or dates that are placed on this act. It's enough to turn the first page of that rulebook and you'll see that, as far as time goes, it says -- Belgrade, May 2006. Today is October 2007. The Commissioner for Public Information, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, says in his accompanying act with the Regulation and the following - in a letter of 1 August 2007, which I have ured upon obtaining consent, I have informed you that I delivered the acts to the agreement in mid-2006, that I have not changed the order by new acts, nor the number of systematicised places, in relation to the current acts in which I received the Assembly's consent, but that it is a legal alignment of terms, terms and titles, as well as that I have been verbally informed that the Administrative Board in the earlier composition gave a favourable opinion on these acts at the session since 12 September 2006, but that they have not been discussed at the session of the Assembly. If nothing else, I think what Mr. Sabic says best confirms the relationship between the ruling coalition and the trustee institution itself for information of public importance. When you introduced this institution into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, you said it was necessary to achieve some European standards in this area and that, unless the Republic of Serbia has a trustee for information of public importance, it would be released from the international community. Here, a man writes in May 2006 a regulation on job systematization and we are only discussing it in October 2007. Furthermore, what is particularly symptomatic is that the ruling coalition is somehow replaying with chronology, or time. We had this case when we were here discussing the Civil Service Act. You came up with the idea of taking the time back, and here you are, about now, and when it comes to this rule. Article 16 of this Regulation says this - this Regulation shall enter into force upon receipt of consent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and shall apply from 2 July 2006. We have not yet given consent to this regulation as a National Assembly, and it is simply amazing that Article 16 of this Regulation states that it is applicable before it has entered into force, or before the National Assembly has given its consent to this Regulation. This is once again a game of the ruling coalition with time, with legal regulations, and it is simply amazing that the Commissioner for Information of Public importance delivers such an act in the assembly procedure. As for the decision on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information, there are a whole series of illogicalities in this decision and I will try to point only to some of them. The public information trustee is an in-house body. No one is questioning the need for the trustee to have certain associates to assist him in his work, but the question is whether it is necessary to be the very number prescribed by this decision and whether it is necessary for the Commissioner for Public Information to have a cabinet. The commissioner is neither the president of the National Assembly, nor the Prime Minister, nor the prime minister, however, the commissioner should have his own cabinet. The terminology used in this decision is not consistent, it is imprecise, it leaves room for free interpretation. In Article 7(3), the secretary of the service and assistant secretaries are placed in a position of five years, being careful, based on an internal or public competition and being classified as a third group of positions, with the time they are placed in a position to be re-established without competition. It is simply amazing that such a provision exists in one legal act. Either the competition is public, or it's internal, it can't decide whether it's internal or public. It's either gonna be one, or it's gonna be another. It cannot be left to the trustee that he himself decides whether the contest he calls will be internal or public. See Article 9 - concerning complaints from civil servants in the Commissioner’s service, but it is not clear whether this appeal committee is made up of any special civil servants or those already existing ones who work in existing services, or departments. The Board of Appeal has five members, including the chairman of the commission, appointed for five years, and can be re-appointed. Are these some new civil servants, past these existing ones, or are they government officials who work exclusively in the Board of Appeal? If it is government officials working only on the Board of Appeal, then it is unnecessary spending of state money and unnecessary expansion of the state administration. When it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, or the Ombudsman, it seems to me that Mr. Sasa Jankovic is not exactly what his position is, what he should actually be doing. The protection of citizens cannot undo any single legal act adopted by the Authority of the State Administration. He can only submit initiatives, suggest a violation of the law, submit bill proposals, or other acts to which he can improve the work of the state administration. But the Guardian can't undo any single administrative act. Then the question arises - if the Guardian of Citizens can't do it already, then why give him such a massive administration? Mr. Sasa Jankovic predicted in these acts that he has 63 employees in the Civil Protection Service. Why is that, if he is, what do administrative-law theorists say, just a tiger without teeth? Absolutely can't undo any single administrative act. In addition, he is given extremely high authority by these acts, which makes an extremely large number of civil servants available to him. When I was talking about the Law on State Officials and the Law on State Administration, I pointed to parallel legal indicators, that the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, given the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the number of inhabitants, is too bulky and that it is far higher by the number of officials than the state administration is far richer and more developed European states. I can't understand that Mr. Sasa Jankovic is mixing some of the basic terms, or essential terms that are related to his work. In Article 4, the complaint sector says. Everyone knows what complaint is. It is obvious that Mr. Saša Jankovic is not clear, i.e. he is acting on complaints to initiate amendments to laws, sublaws and other regulations in order to improve the protection of human and minority freedoms and rights. He is under appeal to monitor the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and to record cases of constitutional appeal. What kind of complaint is that? Mr. Sasa Jankovic seems to invent some new terms and new terms that are not contained in the current regulations. The department in that service of his, among other things, bears the name - the department of good administration. I don't know what good administration is, and where he found this term, he's not in the State Administration Act, nor in the Government Act, nor in the Ministry Act, nor in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Mr. Sasa Jankovic doesn't seem to be able to do it without a cabinet. And he has the Office of the Protector of Citizens, who does advisory and protocol work, relations with the media and the public, etc. Not a cabinet in terms of space, not in terms of office, but in terms of people who work in that cabinet, all 63 people work in the Civil Protection Service. Finally, what is particularly interesting is how Mr. Sasa Jankovic came up with this magical number of 63 people he needs to work. Not based on some special indicators, expertise, etc., it says - an analysis of the needs of the citizens' protection institution has been established by Slovenian Ombudsman Jernej Rovšek. So, Mr. Jerney Rowshek came to Serbia. By the way, Slovenia has only recently had an ombudsman. Then he, a man, said - you in Serbia should have 63 men in the service of the Ombudsman. That's unserious. The explanation does not contain a single provision why it is necessary for that very number of people. Because of all these extreme remarks, the SRS cannot vote for these acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8256	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Pai Momchilov. Let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you've heard, the MPs of the SRS cannot vote for the proposed materials you've given us here. I would start here from the very beginning as this debate of ours ran and I would draw your attention to something that has already become a practice in this House, which is nothing new. I think we should look back on that and give the court all this, because if we continue, this way, then really this Parliament won't look like the right parliament and we're going to devalue what little remains here. In fact, the SRS MP, Mrs Verica Radeta, advertised a member of our 87th Rules of Procedure and said that members of the Government, authorised representatives of other legislators and secretaries of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. We received an easy response from Mr Albianic, who chaired before the President of the Assembly, that the President of the Assembly did not call, we thought it was the turn to call, the people who drew up these documents, which is the Commissioner and Protector that we recently elected in this House, to remind you only, Mr Rodoljub Šabić and Mr Sasa Jankovic. If you look at the materials that we receive here in the accompanying act that has been sent to us, which she signed under the authority of the President of the Assembly, our secretary, Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, is said to be the applicant, and then for these documents is written by the Citizens' Protector, Commissioner for Public Information. Now, look at the wonders, all of a sudden there's an authorized promoter, we've heard, we can't see it anywhere, the Administrative Board of this assembly. So, people who didn't put this together, who didn't propose this, not to read to you and the letters accompanying to the president of the assembly, should defend this document and participate in the debate with us MPs, which we have already seen, in the debate, you've asked a series of very significant questions. What do you want with this? A man can think it's two things. Or stop, let's just say he's done, it's not good. Why? It's happening again. It's human sin. You make a mistake once, twice, but it's satanic if you repeat mistakes every day. If it is premeditated, then we understand, we do not want a qualified and serious debate in this House, because no one is sitting here to defend these papers and to give any answers to our questions. So, this is another eclectic example of how this House's dignity is being undermined, whether or not, unconsciously, I don't know, the president of the assembly has been dumped. I don't know how much he's really responsible for all of this, if he is, then I'm free to make a point to him. What we should see further, you see, we are really having a debate about this set of laws that are irrelevant to the state at this point. They're not irrelevant in themselves, but at this social moment that we're in, we're really having a debate that doesn't deserve to be conducted. What I really can't get over before I get to the very problem that we're discussing is what was pointed out here a few days ago. Look, we MPs are getting here, and now the secretary committee is talking to us, and they're telling us that we're attending certain strange gatherings organized by some open society funds. And watch what materials they're sending us. I have to point that out for the citizens. This is humiliation. For what? On one page, grammatical and logical two errors. I will read to the citizens of Serbia, to see the final sentence - please give us as soon as possible, whether you agree (as soon as possible, I wonder what you will do as soon as possible) with the organisation of this meeting at the House of the National Assembly in the scheduled terms. Look at the next sentence, this is for the basis of the quiz, the fourth grade of elementary school, to say where the error is - given that all the institutions of the state would participate in the Euro-Atlantic integration process, we believe that those MPs, etc. Look, this pleads that Europe, that the path to Europe is illiterate, is not an accident, I think it is intentional, that we do not respond to this and say - you have primitive MPs, you have illiterate MPs, and this is one additional beochug, which completes this kaleidoscope of events in these days that we live and work in. Clearly, this is practically a state of lawlessness. That's where I don't think we can talk. A state that doesn't have a constitutional court is clearly a state of lawlessness. But let's go back now and these papers that they gave us here. What's a basic grudge? The main objection is that when we chose the Protector of Citizens and when we chose the Commissioner of Information out of public importance, we can agree that they were only conditional. They are the protectors of the citizens, but a small number of citizens. Who are these citizens? These are citizens who belong to political organisations that are now participating in power. That's quite clear. Let me remind you of a document. It's not too much to remember when DOS banged in pots and whistles, then in 2000, on August 19th, DS, and G 17 plus signed, the contract with the people at 10 points. I'm not gonna read everything. Of those ten points, nothing was achieved. So, a lie, the people are brutally deceived. Now I'm going to read to you, nod your head to agree, and I can read, here for the people, so I don't lie, but to stick to the fourth -- we're going to bring down the number of ministries and ministerial posts without portfolios, limit the number of vice presidents, reduce the administration. What's going on? Is this a reduction in the administration? What we said, we don't mind you going to Europe, we don't have anything against the Guardians, civil rights, but not this way you do. You've introduced a public defender who will be elected by political likeness. It's the public's protector, let's call it one half, maybe less Serbian citizens. It is not the protector of citizens of all Serbia, because it has such political biography and it is politically similar. That's what you introduced. That's the first one. You've introduced a political resemblance, so I don't list other examples for you. Here, reviving body. The parties met and you say -- it's a professional, objective body, unbiased. No matter what, the parties make suggestions. So it's just power, force of the majority and lies about transparency, about expertise and travel to Europe. I could read you a few more of these ten points from the contract. Read again, we will come back to them sometime to see what you promised the people and what you did. Another thing, what's controversial about these proposals. You see, a huge number of employees, they need a hundred here to be involved. Someone was counting, our SPS colleagues are instructions, so I'm not going to repeat the exact figures in 2000 as many employees as there were in the administration -- 200 grand. Until a few months ago, we were talking 260,000. You raised the administration for 60 grand. Is that a cheap state? Today we've heard that maybe 70 grand has already exceeded that number. The moment unemployment didn't drop, it grew, what do you do? A common people on the streets, this privatization of criminally imprisoning jobs, you send our citizens to the streets. But, to your contemporaries, with good tolerance, you provide places in these unnecessary bodies. What does a man have to say if he looks at the systems that we've only been offered here? Here, to be free, look at this scheme. Protector of the citizens, this is the scheme of one dissensive ministry. So this is the administration of a couple of excellencies. Now watch what he says - the Protector of the Citizens, if this gentleman were the Protector of the Citizens, said my colleague, he would immediately intervene to protect the rights of our President Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, where all human rights are violated in a dragonic way. That gentleman hasn't heard from me in a single word. Therefore, we now need to believe that we give him a bunch more similar and will be chosen by the similarity of the political one, and look, he has four deputies. Let me read to you deputies what the headlines say. He says he's a deputy for human rights and freedoms and the rights of persons deprived of liberty. Says Deputy Minority Rights. Look out, aren't minority rights human rights? Then he goes on to say, "I'm a deputy for gender equality, child rights and people with disabilities." He says he's a deputy for good administration. What does that mean for good administration? These are all for the bad, assumed, and then one for the good. Don't do that. What is the particular problem and what is the focus, not only on our parliamentary group but also on other parliamentary groups? The problem is they're high-paid officials, where the coefficient is 2.5 relative to the average salary. We don't mind that it's much bigger than the parliamentary salary, which someone might have gotten the impression. No, we simply think that these people, who have so far done nothing to protect the rights of citizens and the public of information, are free to say it here, can prove it, can't get another such apparatus and are believed that when they get it, then honey and milk will flow for the citizens, then they will be protected and then we will have public information. We in this House have passed a law of accession, we have chosen a man, for information of public importance. Be careful, you just say in your name - the information law of public importance. So, arbitration exists, someone will always arbitration what is of public importance and what is not. Someone's gonna say I'm making false assumptions and constructing, and I'm gonna try to convince you that it's true in life. That law is an arbitration law. Who's the arbiter? Of course, the trustee. Whose trustee is the man? I'm not going to tell the political parties either, I'm going to tell that gentleman from the OSCE who took him in a few days ago, and he's got that kind of jewelry, and he's praised that he's working overtime, and he's had 2,000 cases in 2006. Which of these items did he manage to solve? It's an interesting piece of information, and we'd ask for that information and Mr. Shabic if he was here, and then we'd get the right answer, and then the citizens could make the right conclusions to draw. So this is one unfeeling way, again we think, to rob a poor state, a state that's in charge of loans, and we think it should end. What's the protection of citizens? Someone might say, we're not gonna name one person, we're not gonna name five of his assistants, they're gonna protect them. It's like when you let a cat watch your cheese or leave a cat to watch your mice and let them run free. We're about to have a situation now. It's public protection, transparency, what you like to say, information, the application of legal provisions. As the legal provisions apply here, we've seen this from Mr. Justice Minister, a politician a couple of excellencies, who comes out here and says - we have to have special courts because the rest of us aren't capable. His deputies, the judges are incompetent, they can judge heaven, but for special complex cases, there must be some elite and judge. It's clear, too. That's what we read in today's paper. They're getting me out of the bench to set up an American ambassador. I don't know if he is, he's just an executive, but maybe somewhere else is still where he's being handled. If you're looking at the judge's statement that was removed from the process in today's newspaper, she said that - I was replaced by the American ambassador. So, this is not what the Serbian radicals say, it's what the remanded judge in the process says. So, the very application of the law, the country that holds the law makes it possible to protect citizens, and then this Ombudsman -- let's bring it in, let it exist, but not with this kind of apparatus, not with this kind of spending money -- might even make sense. To go back to the field that's kind of closest to me here, and that's health care. Serbian healthcare is in a different situation according to various estimates. Someone says the situation is difficult, and certainly if you listen to the official health minister, he will say the situation is very good. Of course, it always comes from the past, how terrible it was, so now the foundations are broken and everything, and we've now built the foundations and we're doing what's right. Serbian health care is burdened with corruption, a difficult, a series of problems. Here, honourable Members of Parliament, what is happening in that health care. The press is carrying something, most things don't carry. Electronic media, the public service is completely instrumentalized and he's in the service of the ruling summit, and today they send me a letter from the Health Chamber Assembly, you've adopted the Chamber Act here. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am told by dentists that a group from Vojvodina has completely left the session, constitutionally, where the law, the statutes, all possible and forced. The five-member election committee has proposed three from the election commission for functions. Then they wouldn't allow the right choices, to choose the people that colleagues of dentists want, and all the colleagues of dentists from Vojvodina left the second part of this assembly. Where will you find this as a document? Unfortunately, nowhere. This assembly speaker, someone said, will contribute more to the public than these people you've assigned. What's the key to the health problem? I'll only take one, there's a lot of them, so I don't pick them up. We've come so far that those aunts from these various organizations, Soroshi, I don't want to count them, they've gathered the loop and they've written -- the national being and the safety of the citizens of the poor health care system is at risk. I'm telling this to all the members of the government, I'm telling this to the Members of Parliament. Gentlemen, the Assembly Committee on Health, headed by the president of the same party from which the Committee is appointed. We had a meeting at the Batut Institute a few days ago with the topic -- the state of health of Serbian citizens. We received four lectures, which absolutely couldn't respond metrically, and when we pointed to measurement data that it was bad and made it worse by looking at mortality and disease, it couldn't come to the conclusions. The board has made no conclusions. We live in such a country and in such a situation. That I don't owe much to finish what's key. The European Community says - we invested 95m euros in health care, with donations, with loans. If you go and stray by accident and download a document, and it's hard to get documents, you can see that at this point 75 health care projects are operational, that it's ongoing. Where are you going to find, on which site are the 75 projects that are now being done, and in terms of health care? I'm taking this opportunity to ask a parliamentary question. I ask the question not to the Minister of Health, he will not answer, I ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister. He is the most responsible for the health of the people, who are worsened and worsened year after year. That's the subject, the public, only you don't understand, and that's your problem. Again to tell you something, you have the opportunity to go out for this pay phone, to object, to say - you are wrong, to convince your arguments and your wisdom to convince me, I would admit to you, even if I said something wrong, if I lied, to you personally and to anyone who would feel affected by my discussion. So, sir, if you're reading a nice newspaper, here's what might have come out, you've read the wrong paragraph, so you're out, you're using this pay phone to say it. I'm asking a question for the government and I'm asking for this to come into the record. Since 2000, how many of the projects have been completed, and which have had health care issues in Serbia? The second question, how many projects are now under way, or how many projects are currently being done. I'm looking for the following data: the name of the project, under two, which is the funder - whether from donations or loans; number three, who is the project bearer; number four, the project budget, with the specification of the contractors and the funds they have received; number five, the evaluation, who has carried out and to show the evaluation. So, I'm asking the Serbian government, the prime minister, to have this data delivered. Why don't I ask the Minister of Health? Because when similar data were requested, it was answered -- that it was a secret, that foreigners wouldn't allow it because they were financials. You have had an absurd situation for a Serbian citizen named Stevan Požega of Novi Sad to be sent to European institutions. He was brought in, according to his statement, to the Nova Sad MUP to make a statement. Why? Because he was looking for information -- what about the blood transfusion project that we're seeing what he's led to, that even B92 can't save the situation as it is now with giving. Let's not talk about what happened here. So I also have these answers from the minister who says the foreigners respond, give money, and then the foreigners are thieves, and they're not for transparency, and we can't do anything. Now, gentlemen, I'm talking to you now, and the Serbian Health Minister has seriously accused you of being corrupt, of participating in corrupt projects, where the good part of the funds that you've donated to God may have been money laundering, and indeed the good part of you seem to have put in your pockets. Then you call it the assistance of Serbia's health, so that we don't doubt you further, and that we will accuse you of being such, that you are corrupt, and that you live on the back of this people and you are paralysing. Open up the projects, name names, contractors, how much anyone has won, what has been achieved, and give us an evaluation. That's what I'd end up with. We really can't discuss this. Please, in the future, President, allow an adequate discussion of qualified people, not a conversation of deaf and silent ones. These empty benches are, first of all, a disgrace to this House, and for God's sake, since you're the first among the equals, most of all, your shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8258	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that in our country there's been a situation like that, that there's been a transfer of the population, that a large number of our citizens have gone to third countries, that they've been there for more than a decade, and that from Europe and European countries, according to the International Convention on Reading, which today our country has signed, our citizens should return to our country. If a country, such as ours, signs such a convention and ratifys the return of the readmission program, I don't think anyone has the right to refute such decisions when the state makes it. Here's what's going on. The heads of the Senta Municipality's Assembly passed a unanimous decision that the municipality would not accept Kosovo Roma, which would be deported from the West through the readmission. According to the decision of the municipality of Senta -- unable to accept refugees, they should all return from where they emigrated to Western countries, the decision said. It's still said that this town of Sainta is ready to accept only those people who are from Sainta. As far as I know, Senta is within Serbia. Serbia is democratic, it does not prohibit citizens from moving and living, and I don't see why a municipality, if the state has signed this ratification, would want this to stop. It's my comment. I'm surprised by this decision by the Municipality of Saint. First, because our state Republic of Serbia has signed a readmission contract as a whole as a state, it will accept its citizens who no longer have legal residence in the West, and secondly, because our country is obliged by the Schengen Treaty to implement and comply with the law with the West. As you know so far, it seems to me that our 17-state state has ratified a readmission contract for citizens from the West. So, the Western states have no longer allowed the status issue of our citizens who have been there to temporarily extend, but a signed return. Where they would return -- surely to their own country, and that state is called Serbia. The question arises, is not such a decision directly directed against our country of the Republic of Serbia, which, of course, in agreement with the West, envisioned a series of relief measures for returnees. First of all, one of the most significant measures is integration, which includes a humanistic approach to solving this very burning problem. I think that decision should be rejected or annulled within the most urgent time limit, because it's full of charges. I ask the president to take the most urgent shift, because this decision is directly directed against tolerance, multi-cultural, multinational and multi-confessional Vojvodina, and directly endangers our country's insistence to reintegrate its citizens on its territory. UNHCR, as well as many other international organisations, aims to protect human rights. Surely our country will not return our Roma to Kosovo, where there is no possibility of freedom of movement not only of the Roma, but of Serbs and other non-Albanian living. Due to the flagrant violation of the signed return ratification, the reading of our citizens, I believe it is justified that the heads of this municipality be replaced. Because if they don't respect the state's position, they don't respect this country either. On behalf of the SRS, we support all national minorities and in all their areas they need to exercise all their rights that follow them, from politics to education. We will never slow down or do anything to keep all national minorities from accomplishing what follows them by the law and the Constitution of our country. Since our country is multi-confessional and multinational, and Senta is within Serbia, I don't see anyone having this right to make such decisions, in the lower institutions of local institutions to prohibit the work of citizens who had to go to other countries and now return because ratification is signed. I believe that in Belgrade and across Serbia, all citizens have the right, as so far as all citizens have the right to come, to live, to buy houses, property, wages, we know how many of our citizens have come after all these events, the territory of Croatia, Slavonia, Kosovo and Metohija, and there have been no interference. Since there has been no disturbance in democratic Serbia for all citizens without regard to religion and color, I believe that Sainta is also part of Serbia and that these events should not happen and I believe it is justified that all the leaders who have made such a decision are replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8260	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic. I remind you that the Serbian Radical Party has 17 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8261	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS today have had the opportunity to point very important things to the citizens of Serbia, when it comes to the obligations of Serbian citizens to the state, that is, what all taxpayers pay. When you look at the constitutional category of the Citizens' Protector provided for in the new Constitution, you can immediately, in the proposal of this Act, see in the Internal Planning and Systematization Regulation, that you have 18 commissioners and department heads. What does that mean? You have more executives than any social enterprise. When you look at the internal arrangements, in Article 2, in order to carry out professional and administrative tasks in the jurisdiction of the Citizens' Protector, the following basic internal units are educated: the sector for handling complaints, the sector for improving human and minority freedoms and rights, third, the sector for general affairs. In sectors, they are educated in the ropes of organisational units - departments and sections. You have a sector to handle complaints. In the complaint sector, the following internal units are educated: the Department of Human Rights and Freedoms and the Rights of Persons Deprived of Freedoms, the Department of Gender Equality, the rights of the child and the rights of persons with disabilities, the Department of Rights of National Minorities, the Department of Good Administration and the Department of Advisory Legal Assistance. When you look at just what's normized, predicted and prescribed in Article 5, you'll see that things repeat here. You today have the inflation of this administration, that there are a lot of executives, that taxpayers will actually pay officials. What's important is in Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed what the Protector of Citizens does. He says: "The protection of citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority. ''I call on Mr Jankovic to submit a report to the National Assembly since that institution was formed and he is appointed to the post, to submit a report in which public companies have exercised control and what their findings are. How he could control whether he was enabled or not and whether he was in control or not. If so, what a state he's in. Only in the Belgrade City Assembly, on the territory of the city of Belgrade in all municipalities, is it because it has its seat and is close to its seat, it does not need a bicycle, nor does it need a car to go, to report and to say what the situation is. The situation is that there is no budgetary inspection to control the consumption of budget spending. Therefore, you have ladies and gentlemen MPs, an opportunity to take this off the agenda. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for inflation of various administrative entities, which have also burdened the Serbian citizens' budget. From this budget to the elbows is the hand of the taxpayers. If personal income, according to some of our findings, and up to 160.000,00 dinars, today the MPs pointed out and talked about it, and reminded the MPs, and I also remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the SRS that this is unacceptable, that this is an insolence, that this is a shame, that this Assembly cannot stand behind such proposals, because this is an absolute robbery of taxpayers. How many clerks do we have in these two resistors, then, is this the Guardian of the Citizens? When you see by the number of perpetrators, it is a larger institution than the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, a higher salary than the Supreme Court judge of the Republic of Serbia. Please, is it possible to accept such tenants and civil servants; it is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful to think, we cannot accept this, Serbian radicals protect the interests of their citizens and taxpayers, and place these tenants somewhere else, but don't increase the administration that citizens have to pay for something they don't have to. We haven't paid them yet, and we don't need them now, if we need them to be aware of the least possible level, five or six clerks and nothing more, and not here for hundreds and hundreds of them will be, secretary, chief of department, secretary general, oh God save, what has happened to this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8262	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, he is the last to be reported on the list of debaters. The remaining time for Mr Krasic is 10 minutes and three seconds, if he has anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8263	It is good that there is a united debate on these two proposals, which are on the agenda, these acts on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in these new bodies, the bodies that have somehow regulated the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the bodies we need, and we do not need them. We need them if they are fulfilling their constitutional function, and we do not need them unless they are fulfilling the constitutional function. Are these two organs capable of fulfilling constitutional functions? I can't. Why can't they fulfill these constitutional functions? I can't for one simple reason that those who made the coup couldn't think differently of implementation, harmonising with something imaginary that exists in the West in a different way than in a radical way. Just to remind you, we've been fighting this democratic bloc for five years now, who haven't just built an elevator agency, acid water, birds, and a cross-border bird's flight. They built agencies for everyone else. As they did, they had the opportunity to listen to the direct transmissions of the National Assembly sessions, where we criticised such a concept of state and society organisation. I don't argue there's such a thing, but there's no state where there's such a brutal way of doing it with us. This is presented to us as the last cry of democracy and as a condition for the EU's accession as soon as possible. That's not what I told you five or six years ago, but you don't care about that, because your story about the EU is a good illusion that can deceive citizens. Let me remind you, and the turkeys had some of their paroles. One of those parolees was "a expensive and massive state administration". There has been no more expensive and massive state administration since the Democrats came to power. Just to remind you that in an effort to improve the position of the President of the Republic, he came to the sense that he was building a National Office. You know, she doesn't have a budget position with that name anymore, but there's some assets behind it. Just to remind you that someone who was considered a media tycoon was the head of that office. He boasted about someone else's money, shared something, here he is, today he's some minister for some NIP. So, when it comes to Democrats, there is infallible legality. Where the money is, where the government is, where the position is, unless G17 plus it has passed, there are Democrats. That's recognizable. I was just waiting for him to call me, I did it, he called me, now we've moved on to a new phase. She left when the Democrats entered power the second time. It is recognizable by the fact that on the DS list there are many more representatives of NGOs, spy services, yes, that's what Mr. Shami says, and you, so there are those who have been funded from abroad for years, educated in Segedin, Budapest, and that I don't order these beautiful locations. What are they trained for? Well, to destroy the state structure of the Republic of Serbia. That's what they've been doing for seven years. But since those abroad realized that these here, their representatives, the Democrats, were pretty much stealing those funds, then they said -- now you're in power, we can't fund you from abroad. Now take all this which is the NGO sector and put it into power and ensure that the state finances its enemies. So now that the citizens of Serbia are funding, did I conclude from your point of view that you're surprised, you don't think that's exactly what I said? So where's that Milos Todorovic? He was from that Cesid, one plus one equals two. They're all set up in the state structure. Journalists Study B -- they're all set up in some state structures. Some human rights fighters, allegedly, as a non-governmental sector, are now in the DS, are now fighting for human rights in a different way. The Resistance is all over the DS. The resistance now controls the DS, so they don't mess up anything. That's right with this trustee and this protector. Imagine, they even have cabinets, and according to the State Administration Act or one of those laws, the cabinet can only have the Prime Minister or Vice President, and I won't go any further, because you've raised your alert to planetary proportions at the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister. So the non-governmental sector has moved into the state structure, into state bodies, and then you can imagine what that protection looks like. Not to go into this explanation to some NGOs, which may not be so publicly known, I'll take a few characteristic examples. You have one NGO that's a humanitarian law fund. At the head of the fund is Vojin Dimitrijevic, but he has drunk his capillary structure, he's been that agent since 1963, it's nothing new, it's known a long time ago. Now, what's the brand of that organization is, of course, Natasa Kandic. You see, this lady moves around in courts, protects human rights, is officially a representative of the damaged, and she has nothing to do with law school, or a legal person can represent, and she's there to threaten, so if she doesn't like a judge, she can't be a judge anymore, if she doesn't like a cop, she gives him slaps in fear, and no one can handle her. Just to remind you, you from the NGO sector, the great freedom fighters, for democracy, we have another characteristic example of a great fighter, how much he struggles for democracy and for freedom, so much more and more every day. I think his name is Milenko Deretta, but he's about to explode, poor thing. Only it doesn't explode with too much concern and anxiety for the legal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You see, that's what Serbian citizens are funding now. How? Through the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Can he tell them -- enough, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more. He can't. He can even attack America in his daily announcements, but Natasu Kandic must not look too hard. This country is managed by NGOs, and I told last time that the best regulation regulated by NGOs is the regulation of Burma and Russia. Burma banned it after letting her go for a few months to see what it was about. When they saw that they were all spies who needed to destroy the state, they passed the order and banned it. When it comes to Russia, you heard it yourself, Putin realized, unlike the Jelicin, what was hidden in that bush. If they used to do this by hiding, today they do it publicly, if they used to do it with funds from abroad, today they do it with the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So if you're complaining, you're fighting for some right of your own, you're going straight to the man who put you at risk, so whether he's a trustee, whether he's a protector, whether he's in some agency, whether he's in some ministry, everything and everything, and especially those people who will never hear of your trouble and who don't have any dilemmas about whether it takes an ordinary citizen to help or not. They'll put you to sleep with a nice song, a coffee shop, to have a deep complicity with you in your pain, but that the complication is great in the country, because it's extremely disintegrated, capillary, with the competent authority, from incompetent to incompetent, your right will not be resolved, and they will be financed. The West, of course, will commend, there are institutions in the Republic of Serbia. They work selectively. It works when it's supposed to hit the opposition. Mr. Grouchy, can I ask you another question or should I answer it?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8264	Since you're the last debater, here you go, you've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8265	Look, I respect what you said. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, of course, I'm using the right allowed by members of 225 and 226, you remember that for two and a half to three years I've been asking the question - when the police will arrest Mladjan Dinkic. I got an answer today from a gentleman signing with a fax machine. It's called a Dragan Jocic. He says so - when will the MUP arrest Mladjan Dinkic? Now, the facsimile answers: "This ministry does not have any knowledge of the legal basis for acting in accordance with the delirious and the powers to which the parliamentary question is concerned. 'Now, Mr. Grouchy, you're probably smiling when you heard what Mr. Jocic said thoughtfully. To not now interpret the psychological state of the gentleman when he wrote this, I would just like to point out that I am not satisfied with this answer, but I need it to perform my function below, to have Mr Jocic answer me, and to be able to assist Vojislav Kostunica, and to answer my next questions - does Mr Jocic receive daily newspapers that go out in Serbia every morning? That was the first question. The second question -- did he finish elementary school so he could read Cyrillic and Latin? The third question - did he ever have a chance to read a stenogram from the National Assembly session in his life? The fourth question - if all is previously negative, let him address me, I'll assign him a face that will read him everything that's written. Why am I asking this as a question? Because there's something in his profession called fama. It's a word that goes from mouth to mouth, from knee to knee, spreads, talks, talks, that's how the authorities of the state turn their attention to see if there's room for them to get involved. I fully agree with the great fears that exist with Vojislav Kostunica and his government, regardless of the government's appearance. When it comes to Natasa Kandic and her claim that Tomislav Nikolic killed 15 old women in a village and that the state had done nothing, although it was widely known and everyone replied it had nothing to do with it. But I am simply surprised that, after so many newspaper articles and facts being made, Mr. Jocic does not find it appropriate to at least inform me that this question has been taken into consideration, that he has commissioned someone to verify that these claims are correct, and this is what I am saying, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because you too can be the victim of something being carried out over the National Assembly. If we allow our spoken words to be publicly spoken, any noise can sue an MP or any noise can threaten the National Assembly, whether they are English, German or who knows which lawyers, then this National Assembly must hold a session, take a stand, inform the public about it and discuss these issues. I don't want to go into the details of who he's threatening, why he's threatening, which is why he's threatening, but I'm sure any shit can threaten the National Assembly just because Mr. Jocic doesn't do his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8266	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) Or someone else who did not exercise his right in Article 90. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions, does MP Dragan Todorovic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the acts of the Commissioner for Public Information and on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the acts of the Protector of Citizens. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC InterpretATION OF ARTICLE 127. Article 1 And Item 2. You have received a proposal for authentic interpretation, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes 24 seconds, G 17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, MP Group "Liberal Democratic Party" - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List for Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, and Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a review of the proposal for authentic interpretation. Does the proposing representative, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, president of the Legislative Committee want a word? Here you go, Vlatko.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8267	I would like to thank you, Mr. Vice President Mrkonjic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education, i.e. the proposal to interpret the provisions of Article 127, paragraph 1 and Article 2. The law on higher education. It's about, I remind you, a very important law, about an organic law, about one system law, which regulates one of the most vital and most important areas of social life in general, which is education, and especially higher education. Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127(1) and (2) The Law on Higher Education is based on Article 158(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Milos Aligrudic, as an authorised proposal. The applicant shall state, as a reason for the adoption of authentic interpretation, the possibility of a different interpretation which may be made in the application of the provisions of Article 2 relating to the possibility of submission to a higher education institution, that the previously acquired name is determined to correspond to one of the names set out in Article 95 of this Act, i.e. the Higher Education Act. You will allow me to quote the provision of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Law on Higher Education: ''A person who has acquired or acquired an appropriate academic or professional or scientific name, according to the regulations applicable to the entry into force of this law, reserves the right to use it in accordance with the regulations according to which it has acquired them. Item 2: ''The person of the position of the 1st member may request from a higher education institution in which he or she shall be entitled to, in the procedure and under the conditions prescribed by the General Act of the Higher Educational Institution, and in accordance with the criteria for the harmonisation of acquired names prescribed by the Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, determines that the previously acquired name corresponds to one of the names of the Member of this Law. ''The Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by applying the general rules on the interpretation of laws and other regulations, means both linguistically, grammatically, and telelogically, or targeted interpretation, has established the proposal that lies before you as MPs and the essence is that these provisions should be understood in such a way that the time fact of retaining the right to use the acquired name from the 1st position of this member extends not only to the present, but also to the future. The purpose of the right to use the acquired name is to protect legal certainty and rights acquired. Article 2 may be interpreted exclusively in the context of such interpretation of the provision of Article 1, which means that the status of persons who have acquired or will receive a name by the rules which have been in force until the date of entry into force of the Law on Higher Education, which is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No. 76th of 2005, with the status of a person who will obtain the names provided for by this law. In other words, respected colleagues and colleagues, those who acquired the seventh degree of professional training, such as a graduate lawyer, a graduate engineer, a graduate economist, are equal to those who acquire the title - master. So this is a proposal for an authentic interpretation submitted by the Legislative Committee to the MPs, or to the National Assembly. You will allow me to present a few more moments, which have affected, or determined this proposal of the Legislative Committee for the interpretation of these provisions. First of all, it should be said that when deciding on criteria for harmonising academic names acquired under earlier rules with the names of the new Higher Education Act, an adequate general principle must be applied which will equally treat all holders of diplomas. By applying the new European Academy Names Nomenclature, it is necessary to preserve the acquired rights of graduates and thereby prevent their degradation on the labour market, on the one hand, but to provide them with equal treatment in further education, i.e. direct passing to doctoral studies. I will remind you that this has already been done in many European countries that have had a similar problem and a similar education system, such as Slovenia, Macedonia, Croatia, the Netherlands, Belgium, Estonia and some other countries. What I'm saying is that, starting with the characteristics of master studies and the rights acquired by obtaining a master's degree, they are essentially identical with previous graduate studies, based on the following indicators. After graduation studies there was the possibility of direct enrolment in doctoral studies, with an adequate average rating, but this legal possibility was not applied because doctoral studies at universities were simply not organised. The doctorate was created in an alternative way, through completion of master's studies and defense of doctoral dissertation, so their right cannot be taken away even today when there are doctoral studies. Earlier regulations did not have instruments to limit the volume of burden on students, therefore this volume significantly exceeds the time period available for mastering it, i.e. the extent of previous graduate studies exceeds the volume of new basics and corresponds to master studies. All previous graduate studies took more than four years, since the enrollment of the bachelorship has the same legal consequences as the enrollment of any year of study, therefore the status of students, which is why he is legally treated as a year of study, since the study programmes are designed to be completed with the expiry date. Furthermore, both early graduate and new graduate master studies lead to the acquisition of an academic title, unlike the master and doctoral who lead to the acquisition of a scientific name. Both early graduate and new graduate master studies lead to the acquisition of titles - graduates, while the new basic first-degree studies do not contain this definition. So, by applying these principles and interpretations, the Legislative Committee has established the proposal that it has submitted to you, and as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I propose that the National Assembly adopt this authentic interpretation, first of all, that it is on the line and intensities of the Law on Higher Education, and on the other hand, 400,000 highly educated citizens of the Republic of Serbia and 150,000 students are prevented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8268	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Milos Aligrudić, then the MP of the people, Rangelovic, then the MP of the people Petronijevic. I apologize to Milos, before we move on to the debate, the authorised representatives of the SPS will be Milisav Petronijevic, LDP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and the authorised representative of the SRS will be Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8269	This proposal for authentic interpretation of provision 127. I submitted the law on higher education because I received a group of BU students in due time, who told me that there are practical problems in the application of this provision, i.e. those who apply the Law and to which the law applies, which are, above all, university institutions, colleges, interpreting this provision in such a way as to violate one of the basic principles of law, which is the principle of legal certainty. After a conversation with these students and a careful reading of the provision, and after obtaining opinions that were important for me to take a position as a MP on this matter and take certain steps, I came to the conclusion that this standard, reading it carefully, is written so that it gives a broad interpretation and the possibility that university conferences can bring appropriate regulations. Given that colleges differ in themselves, that the programme in these colleges differs, that the way or mode of study at individual universities is different, and that colleges cannot, in this sense, be equated to each other, because they are completely different, because they are not the same Medical Faculty, Faculty of Law, Faculty of Engineering, they have certain specificities and differences, so it is necessary, that, when certain criteria are established for the application of Article 127, i.e. issuing a certificate of equalisation of status, that simply those criteria cannot be identical, so when we passed this law, the legislator did not enter into a decadent clarification of these criteria. It was left to the university to bring it closer to the criteria and that way this thing ends. The conclusion that I came to is that the university, using this right of its own, or by reading the provisions of Article 127, practically made the criteria on which it concluded that this right was questionable. The legal certainty of citizens that, when they get a certain calling, a certain status based on certain years of study, getting a certain degree, simply that calling cannot be easily equated with the new titles provided for by this law, and where necessary. So we came into an interesting situation, and I'm going to take an example of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, that people who, according to the interpretation of that university, would get the opportunity to continue studying, to go to doctoral studies, because now we don't have a master's degree anymore, so according to that interpretation, they would have to have a master's degree, not to be evenly called masters, but to have a master's degree, so that means a graduate lawyer who finished four years in law school would have to get another year's degree in law school, had to go to master's studies, to get an opportunity to enroll doctoral studies. In which, according to this new law of title, the difference between basic and specialist studies is completely different than in the current regulations. It would practically mean that whoever wants to go to doctoral studies must first go to master studies, get a formal call - master, despite having already been called a graduate lawyer. So far, on the principle of legal certainty, it has been said that whoever completed the basic studies, with certain conditions, passed exams, and with certain other preconditions, can attend postgraduate studies. He is now subject to another precondition, an additional condition, which was not the legislator's intensities. It does not matter whether someone who has completed their basic studies, has the current calling of a graduate economist or a graduate lawyer, should go to another degree of training to go to doctoral studies, which are now the only postgraduate studies that this law recognises at that level, or he can go to these postgraduate studies and be required by the higher education institution programme to possibly pass something else, some examination within the framework of doctoral studies, which he would miss, comparatively, compared to that programme required for those students who will go under this new law and to regular, basic studies. So there's a big difference. The practical consequence is, and that's where I'm going to simplify the whole story, in money. It doesn't matter whether you get a chance to pass or an obligation to pass a differential exam, compared to how the law predicts when comparing the status of study according to the earlier law. Or you'll be forced to enter some two semesters, pay for everything that needs to be paid, pass some differential exams there, without having to pass what you've already passed during your basic studies, and then go to doctoral studies. So the only reason, as you can see from my presentation, which is why I submitted this proposal is to clear up this story about the right to further study. Other implications don't really have this, because I just don't see it coming from me, the reason I'm going to law school is to ask me to issue a confirmation that my status is equating with the status of a master. I wouldn't have any other reason than to have this one. So, as far as employment is concerned, with respect to work abroad, the nostrification of diplomas, this has no meaning whatsoever. It's done in another way, only knowledge that determines no significance in this part, but it's in this part. I'm afraid the University Conference, when it took this position, practically violated the principle of legal certainty. So, someone who was convinced that by finishing college, by obtaining the calling of a graduate engineering engineer, a graduate economist, a graduate lawyer, who was convinced that he could go to postgraduate studies, after which he was actually told that he did not have that condition, but that he had to continue his studies. Simply, for people who have acquired a certain calling, it is unacceptable. Once upon a time, the elementary school lasted four years, then extended to eight years, has the idea that it lasts longer, but we can't after every change in the law of people who have completed elementary school by the old system treat them as if they were without a primary school. It's never been a case, it can't be in the future. It's a fundamental element of legal certainty, it has nothing to do with the quantity of knowledge. If a certain knowledge quantum is sought for doctoral studies, it can be corrected by introducing differential objects for those people who do not meet enough conditions in that sense, but we cannot blackmail our children or other people, older people, who want to continue their education, by having to pay semesters and study something that, in my deep conviction, they are not obliged. So, it wasn't the legislator's intensity when the law was written, when that provision was made, but I'm afraid that what was given here for the most unselfish reasons, to allow the university to determine its conditions according to its specificities, that it was interpreted here and beyond what was meant to be. I think this is the only way to fix this thing right now, to come up with this authentic interpretation, and from this moment on, or the day of publication in the Official Messenger, if this authentic interpretation is adopted this way by the Assembly, that it's clear. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8270	I thank the MP Milos Aligrudic. The word has a folk MP and an authorised representative of the SRS, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, and then Prof. Dr. Zarko Korać, then Milisav Petronijevic. The LDP's authorised representative will be Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8271	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now not exactly the first time in this high house to consider some side effects or the bad effects of already passed laws. In a certain way, we are merely interpreting some legal provision of a certain member in terms of possible ambiguities and inaccuracies that could theoretically challenge. The practical application of the law that we were against when it was passed, because we thought it was destroying a good education system, and then we talked in detail about this problem, what would happen and what would happen to equating and gaining academic titles. It has already emerged as an operational problem and associations before which the state should not have stopped, opposed, expressed its obvious position but as a capitulant and to recognise the requirements of the University Conference and student parliaments, and to make recognition, i.e. equalising the status of graduates and magistrates. First of all, to remind the citizens of Serbia that we were against the law that was passed and the solutions that were envisaged, and today we are aware that this is a unique opportunity in which we bonifiate someone, giving them the right to equalize the calling of masters or masters, through their studies which were in the full range of studies, were for individual professions, individual titles for four, five or six years and people were not masters, they had to learn for two or three more years to get it. So, one particular group we're going to bonify, reward, equalize, and give them prerogatives to move on to professional training. Another, certainly smaller group, which includes all of us who went to further academic training, in a way to depressed, to do what they have mastered, what they have truly asked in one logical setting of things -- what would be of interest to them, what would be the sphere of interest within their profession be most interesting to their future, and how to learn, how to explore, how to achieve a quantum scientific research ability. This was given by master's studies, and the doctorate of old was the crown of such a scientific research work and the processing of a narrow topic that contributed to science. It may not be changed by new solutions now, with the doctorate still having to, depending on the number of points achieved in regular schooling, graduate and master schooling, to be added, but in some ways the number of years will be transferred to doctoral studies. Sumarically, therefore, one individual depends on what he studies, whether he studies rights, economics, medical sciences will be in different positions compared to previously acquired calls. So here we are, based on the source of one of the injustices, and we find it difficult to define what is more unjust, and we cannot defend either position, because we were really most obviously oriented correctly, when the law was passed and when we spoke of the risks he carries with him, even with regard to the acquisition of these titles that stand here today as the subject of interpreting the provision of Article 127 of the Law. (President: Excuse me, Dr. Poscurica, please for peace.) ( ) Well, they probably have a problem solved, so they don’t care about the discussion of those who think otherwise. So what's going to be a step further, how will things continue to happen? The time when equalising calls, when someone who finished medicine at five years of age becomes a master, as well as the one who completed medicine two years ago when he was six years old and mastered, another two or three years of work, nine years of work, and they are equal, the question arises when they move on to doctoral studies, whether or not internal acts, within the framework of the exercise of the right to independence, autonomy, which higher education institutions within the university, because colleges remain in a subordinate position, again the thing we objected against, will come to a doctoral call. This is a question likely to be the subject of debate at the Rector's Conference, both at university bodies and private and state universities. And the next question is, does anyone who is equal to the calling of masters, and by the nature of things the master -- the master means -- additionally qualified for something, in medical sciences, that means that someone in the rank of a subspecies, and that automatically means that you, according to the rules, by the statute of an institution in which he works additionally paid for it, will someone get the right to equalize in calling, not to acquire calling but equality in calling, one mathematical game, the logical game, will they also have the right to demand that he be paid differently now? We don't have any so-called medical records. basic basic level of academic studies. This law provides and I will later read this systematization that the National Council for Higher Education has given, so one of the three national councils that we have made. We don't know what kind of hybrid that finishes basic academic basic studies and probably four years. By getting ready for this, I've been combing through the sites a little bit, and I haven't really found the statutes in which it stands. The statutes of higher education medical institutions do not provide for that variant. The law is in the system ofization, a huge paper of 20 and some pages, a huge material, where the titles that are now precise, amazing, never heard, have never been seen. On the other hand, the question of who ends such programs is what they will be defined for and what they will be able to do. Whoever says, here I am even with the master, my colleague, we're the same now, I'm a subspecialist, you're a master, in health institutions, and even in other guy's institutions, whoever finished the master's degree, for something he's focused on, and then he's got a bigger salary. How are you going to do it now? Is there going to be a new interpretation? You got the call, but you're not a master, it's worth it just to have it written like that if you go out. Then it's a different story. Then it's a game. Then the law can't be so imprecise and can't be given to people like that. Then it'll be an easy thing for people. Now we're all masters, who graduated in 1965, and 1973, 1978, and I'm a magistrate, but you won't be paid and probably won't be able to adequately be rewarded for it. I think that equating these titles is actually a matter of just one legal regulation, of equating in calling that it absolutely does not bear a fundamentally content domain and a substantially increased value of candidates who have their diplomas previously annulled and received some new degree, in which it will stand to equalize it with the master. It will possibly have a different qualification in the addition of the diploma and it will probably stand in writing or how it will be carried out, but it will then be the subject of diversity which would be considered strange in the event of competition with a foreign employer or those subscribers of the Bologna Declaration. In a certain way, you seem to be pushing this proposal, by law itself, not by this interpretation, by the finger in the eye and by those who are the creators of the Bologna Declaration. So what you're saying is that our basic studies were once what they were, graduate studies, not basics, which is now law, graduate studies are actually equal to their masters, which is still not natural and not logical. With them, such a system works, we had a clear and different system set up, which now leads to some false, paved and illogical unification. Now the law that came into force at the end of 2005 was in some way following, and perhaps in some situations it was late for some colleges, which began to run into Bologna themselves to organise studies and to go through the Bologna process to make their own teaching programs. I haven't been able to find out, to show it convincingly here, a 250-page collection, a booklet, it looks like, of a medical college where I used to be a dean, who was working on an old program and where the curriculum and program were collected. When I am now, participating in writing, because although we haven't voted, we respect the law and we have to adapt to the Bologna laws, and write a program in the Bologna direction, when we looked at it, by these principles, collected everything, for these integrated studies, it's one pile of paper of several thousand pages. So one obvious scribomania, a uniform teaching program, the teaching content is the same. Gentlemen, there's been no change. They're still learning enzymes, they're still learning heart disease, they're learning surgery, they're all learning in the same way, they're butchered, they're carved, they're transformed into smaller units, so that the basic concept that the law had, how time promoter Turajlićka used to say, we don't have a lot of people finishing our studies as much as he enrolls them, the study deadline is huge. What have we done now? Shorten the study deadline, let everyone finish something, so let's say medicine after four years of basic academic studies will have some weird calling, I don't know, it's called the healthcare organizer. I've never heard of it before, I've never shook hands with one before, asked him what it means. It may have been once some highly trained nurse who was doing something, but you'll have it in the medical profession now. If someone learns, probably for five years, they'll be a graduate health care organizer and they'll be wearing a master's name. So, they're going to have a master's call. Will he be able to do the same, as he who has had integrated studies and completed six years of medicine, go on equal terms in doctoral studies. It's not resolved. Will sublegal acts solve us, as we do often think that bad, sublegal acts of solutions lead us to be even worse and even more unacceptable, or will we meet again here in the Assembly with the need to explain and analyse, only a question that remains essential to the fact that the law is quite quickly accepted in all elements. Now they're asked from colleges that work to take at least three universities away and somehow copying them to find some of the most logical models to do their own study program, their own curricula. If you take each other's colleges of the same profession, you'll see that their teaching programs differ, and therefore that possibility of transparent crossover, unless the number of SPP points is satisfied, we have no other basis to say that there is the possibility of simple transparency from one to the other, from one educational centre to another, from one college to another. How do you achieve this towards Europe? Of course, even that virtual display isn't worked out, because if it were, few people would have dared to agree to add such great paperwork. You know, it's amazing what you're going to write, how you're doing class. I didn't take it with me, and it's going to be the subject of tomorrow's work by our assembly board, what high school directors, I think they call themselves directors, not deans, especially in the case of the Krusevec High Technical School, and what kind of written instructions they give, requiring them to sign through the book that the materials they're getting, in which they're threatened to fire if they do something that, in the opinion of the director of that high school, will prove not good enough to comply with the Bologna process and, of course, remain for communication. That is, I think Jankovic's name is not to make a mistake last name, I think that the question of this man, who, otherwise, even against the legal provisions, will bring even restrictions on the number of scripts and pages that the script will amount to. If that's the point of the Bologna process and that's what future personnel will be trained in, then it's really declassified. It could have been quite clear by the old law, that this was not only a lamentation over the old law, that it was arranged and that the teaching plan, what the curricula is and what the contents are. The contents haven't essentially changed, they're just an extra headache for students because instead of 33 exams, another 3 or 4, plus an election, the time for study has been cut short, they're forced to come to colleges. Now who's going to call them? You every day, that used to be a spatial problem in some colleges. You need a lecture for class. Now imagine you professors after two hours of talking and teaching two hours of school to call 150 students. You have to do it now. What are you going to bring, some magnetic cards? And that's all introduced to you, that's one obligation. College's a college thing. Whoever wants to learn will, whoever won't, won't. If she won't come, she shouldn't come, I chose her, she should come back. Does he have to finish it if he wrote it down? He doesn't have to. I don't know if I didn't make a mistake, I'm sorry I didn't bring the material, but still, there will be a speech on the Committee, I expect tomorrow, to prescribe that 70% must be transitory. Now imagine a professor who doesn't fit. Then there goes a petition of students, you go to the exam at that and that, because you won't have a pass so much and so much. If these are all the necessary consequences of the law we're talking about, this is the least of the damage we're doing today and we're interpreting. We interpret as it is written, we have not received anything clearer or clearer because the law does not change in its position. The interpretation came, the law, the members, the position 1 and the position 2 of the law do not change significantly. According to this new education system, this vocational study has produced for us, even in the field of vocational studies in medical sciences, nine of which you have never been able to hear about in your life. What are they going to do, how are they going to get a job? It's not the subject of this change. But what analogy can be found with those who have graduated from the High School of Medicine? Are we going to give them analogies so that now they can be potential, say, masters and they end up, another 60 points get and become masters after High School Medical School. Are they going to be looking for some kind of equivalence, some kind of equalization? Pandora's box is open now on this matter. Wait till everyone gets to the point and start making demands. The colleges will be overwhelmed by the demands for a change, and then when it's seen that maybe it doesn't really bring them anything, no significant improvement, and it doesn't give them anything in particular... They'll probably be waiting for taxes, as they are now doing, and they're miraculously acting in the medical chamber, taking about 100 euros to get into the register and getting a license. So, a mob organization, followed well by a minister, a cobajagi from a minister, has nothing to do with it. Now 100 euros each doctor has to give plus one solid credit card to pay every month off the salary to be a member of the Chamber, and the Chamber put an internal act and you can't without it. In an internal act, the law doesn't say that. Here, an internal act, the statute of the Chamber decreed the end of the story. Extra how they were chosen. You have examples of dentists, as their chamber is formed. It's all kind of about this. All of this, speaking, parallel stories and examples, I'm proving how quick law-making is, how much of a need to please someone on the side, to conform to what they're asking us to, leads to some necessarily bad solutions and consequences that need to be solved in walking and that can be the source of injustice. The Bologna Declaration didn't tell us either - you have to do it anyway. That's a recommendation. Well, that's what the ministers sat down and agreed on in two different places, and they recommended that it should be so as to integrate the space. It could have been taken to excellencies our exams with points and to have the equivalent in points, it could have been taken, but the way it went down to detail in the destruction of certain objects that were integral, which as such had to be learned, some were renamed, in architecture there was no drawing geometry, mathematics got a different name, they had to make sense. Until a year or two ago, only one assistant, however the dean, no one knew how to answer the students, no students know today when they end the first and second year in Bologna whether they will stay on the budget, what competence will those who were self-financed enter them. Do they have to make up for 37 to 60? You don't know the number of test deadlines, many colleges automatically, past the law, allow students to pass exams and enter the year, calling for some independence, autonomy, etc., but that's already a violation of the law. So, we're facing it very quickly, and it's only going to start now, I guess by next year we're going to have to finish licensing college. There will be great objections. Facultys are also licensed by the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Education. One university by definition is an educational-experienced, educational, above all, and a scientific institution. Now someone gets a license for scientific work, but they didn't get it for education. How? So now he can't teach students, or he's lost his scientific license, he can't produce either masters, nor doctors, science, etc. Or he got, as they had already received, because science was finished, they were a little more valuable at the National Council, because their accreditation body ended, got accreditation, and now the Deans are shaking, it's generally a hoax, whether it will pass as an educational institution, whether it will have enough squares, enough height, enough parking. Everything could be solved more clearly, as many and so many frames per case as it stands in the law, it can work out somewhere outside, and it's being collected, if it's working out of it, it's losing its job. What we're doing right now is one dangerous improvisation, whose consequences can really be worse than what we're doing right now and we're interpreting how to understand a member of the law. When a court dispute comes, the judge will understand it, it's not a problem, and it's not impossible for it to happen, because if you even the calls, many will be asked what to do with what they got, and it cost them, because no one will give it to them for nothing. Cancel the degree, get a new degree and see if there's any. They'll say - it costs you 100 euros, then I won't take it. Extra that leaves questions when someone wants, is young enough, has potential, wants to deal with doctoral studies, to go to the third level, and then the question will be asked how it will be evened, which additional tests, how to predict it, because the law regulates it very much: 180 if there are at least 300 portable points achieved. It's not clear to the end, and we're probably going to have here, before the law changes in some of its serious segments, and this kind of intervention and this kind of need to interpret what the poet was going to say, what the law, in a hurry, was going to say. So our attitude is clearly clear. We're criticizing the law he was, we're not polarizing left or right. We are aware that some have gotten nothing false, and some have lost nothing again, but their work has been reduced, their efforts, their true tenacity towards some profession, according to the desire to do something seriously, and in such a way they have created two groups of potential dissatisfactions, because, of course, the government, has been pressured by the fact that such important institutions, the conference of rectoral, student associations at a bad time, have been pressured to approve it, because it is probably less evil and with less necessary consequences, and that such an interpretation which, truth, the law implies, did not need to be subsequently interpreted and explained, because we have spoken about it when the law was passed, what de facto could mean in our education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8272	The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP's authorised representative. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, on 17 October, at 1800 hours, in the Press Room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8273	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I will see that I do not repeat too much of what has already been said, especially that I agree with a lot of what has been brought here. I'll just say that the adoption of the Law on Higher Education has brought in some significant newspapers, allowed Serbian students to join and can participate in the knowledge market of Europe, but the Law on Higher Education has brought along some unknowns who have made some legal vacuums here and there and led to the situation that perhaps someone's acquired rights in some way defiled or diminished. I'm not going to repeat the questions that plague all of us who work in higher education, in the face of circumstances, and I'm a teacher of the university, I'm just going to make us agree in one thing, that the acquired rights must not be diminished, abolished or defiled at all. We, among other things, have understood what is proposed in the interpretation that this congregation should adopt. I would like to say that there is no good, or ideal solution to this problem. But if there is no good and ideal solution, let's adopt the least bad, and it seems to us that we are on the right path to adopt that least bad solution. I'd add only a few problems I didn't register if the previous speakers had been presented. In fact, former assistant trainees, and now co-workers in the follow-up, are in some way on white bread, because they have completed their studies, adopted under the new law for class associates, cannot continue their studies because, specifically in my university of accredited doctoral studies, there is not yet any; that we force them to enroll in master's studies that are lifted is not fair, they have no master's calling, so they simply cannot continue to do scientific work in a normal way, nor know what their status is. And the new law gives them the opportunity of a year plus a year to stay in that calling, so it gives them the opportunity when they enroll in doctoral studies to be twice a year in calling assistants and afterwards, if they doctor, to get other university calls. These young colleagues of ours are now on white bread, they just don't know what their status is. In order to avoid such a situation, it is necessary to adopt that least bad solution that I have talked about, that is to say, to prevent someone from being already realised, i.e. the rights guaranteed by previous legislation, not to be reduced, but to simply be able to consume and enjoy the rights guaranteed to them. Therefore, according to what I was saying about the least bad solution, LDP will support this initiative, hoping it will be applied in the right way. So, we know that a graduate lawyer, an engineer, or I don't know what can't be the same as a master, but we also know that we can't defile anyone, or that we can abolish the rights guaranteed by previous higher education legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8274	The word has been issued by MP Milisav Petronijevic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and let MP Srdjan Shin be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8275	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, no smaller paper, no bigger problem, with the possibility of being even bigger. First, let me remind you in a few words what is actually the subject of today's debate. At today’s session, the National Assembly should confirm the proposed authentic interpretation of Article 127. The Law on Higher Education, proposed by the Legislative Committee, or not to confirm it. What is the essence of this proposal? The essence of the proposal for authentic interpretation, offered by the Legislative Committee, is that the provisions of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The law on education - that a person who has acquired or acquired an appropriate academic, professional or scientific name, according to the regulations applicable to the entry into force of this law, retains the right to use it in accordance with the regulations according to which the glass is drawn - should be understood so that the time fact that the right to use the acquired name is extended not only to the present, but also to the future. The purpose of the right to use the acquired name is to protect legal certainty and rights acquired. We are already coming to the first question - legal certainty and rights acquired. I'm sure it's at least a big, huge majority on the side that legal security and acquired rights cannot be questioned. The second position of this law is that the person referred to in Article 1 of this Article may, therefore, ask the higher education institution in which it has been designated, in accordance with the procedure and under the conditions laid down in the general act of the higher education institution, and in accordance with the criteria for the harmonisation of acquired names prescribed by the Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, to establish that the previously acquired name corresponds to one of the names of the Member of this Law. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly and says in the proposal for authentic interpretation - the provision of Article 2 can be interpreted exclusively in the context of such an interpretation of the provision of Articles 1 earlier, i.e. the protection of legal certainty and rights acquired, meaning that the status of persons who have acquired or will be named by the rules which have been in force until the date of entry into force of the Law on Higher Education with the status of persons who have acquired the names provided for by this law. In other words, those who have acquired a seventh degree of professional training, a graduate lawyer, a graduate engineer, etc., are equal to those who acquire the name master. What is in this congregation? It is in this assembly that this proposal of the Legislative Committee confirms or rejects. I just want to warn the Assembly of the consequences in the next part of my exposure and if it confirms it, and the consequences if it refuses. When it comes to authentic interpretation, these are the possibilities given to us by Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure. Now I want to open another question. Will this authentic interpretation, I repeat, not dispute that legal security and acquired rights must be protected, solved the problem? I'm afraid he'll give one answer and open 50 questions. The Legislative Committee has watched this from a legal angle, it belongs to him, and it is legally a clear answer and it is not controversial. But I'm asking another question. What happens to reacting by educational and university authorities? Please, the Higher Education Act was passed in 2005. There has been more than a year of the appeal process, the duration of initiatives, protests by students, etc. So, there's been this problem in the game for a year now. I ask, although it is not there, was that sufficient reason for the Minister of Education to come up with a proposal to amend and supplement the law in order to clarify many provisions, where people noticed that they were difficult to implement. I think the point is, because the government, or the Ministry of Education, could have had to come up with a proposal to amend and supplement the law and to specify all things, including this thing, in order not to cause different interpretations. There's a big problem. I don't know if there was such an initiative by the university authorities, so they wouldn't face an even bigger problem later. So the problem has been opened for at least a year, and the ministry has not come out immediately with changes in terms of resolving these outstanding issues. Not just these, there are many open questions in the application of the Law on Higher Education. We ran to Bologna on that principle and tripped in the first step. The only thing we know, we want the Bologna Declaration, we want to go to Europe, and now what's going to happen to us along the way, we're going to see that when it happens. There are, for example, reasons and needs to look at the quality of higher education, to look at the functioning of the National Council for Higher Education, the Commission for Accreditation and Quality. You remember those great stories and debates, the high expectations of one professional, independent and not to list any further, because these are very popular expressions when something is explained, the accreditation commission. At the same time, just remember this year how many objections there have been to the work of these commissions. What do we have here as a problem? We have a problem, we all agree in that part, but when there's an accreditation of my college, then there's a problem, then it's not that anymore. I prefer that the university will come out with a proposal to amend and supplement the law to reduce this section relating to accreditation, rather than come out with an initiative to discuss these issues of equalising title and calling. These are all very important questions for the implementation of this law. Then, studies, study program, types and levels of study. Now we're talking about what a graduate lawyer is going to compare to, what to even it with, and that's where we have exactly two levels of study, we have basics, we have graduates. With basics, it probably doesn't make sense, with the graduates, obviously we tripped on the first step. Then the scope of the study; see Article 29. The law on higher education. That's another reason and the argument that people rightly warn about. If I'm, and I'm not, a graduate lawyer is even with everything we're talking about here today, I still can't go to doctoral studies, unless I started that cycle as usual, then I'm not even yet. Of course there are solutions, but everyone looks at it their own interests. The only ones that are the most damaged are students, and they are the only ones with the right to respond -- people, give us clear rules of study, clear regulations, where there will be no dilemmas. Then, let's just say, when it comes to master studies, colleges didn't worry much about this. There's a master's study. Of course, pay two, three, four, five thousand euros, according to a programme that should only be when this first generation arrives, and it will arrive in some three or four years. According to the program, they organize classes for those who eventually ended up under another program. Of course, they took advantage of that right and that opportunity, and I think the students are right, until the exact part is regulated, they can't just get colleges to take money from students without knowing what they're giving here. The least you can do is pay the students back. How the law applies in the area of college funding. The law said very precisely in article 58 and obliged the state to provide everything to one university, the funding provided by the state, the founder. In Article 59, I will only indicate two items: material costs, current and investment maintenance, salaries of employees under the collective contract law, etc. Behind that, you have 61st tuition, people, students, the first thing they ask, what we pay for, who we pay for it, and what we get for what we pay for it. It did not pass then, when there was a debate on the Law on Higher Education, an amendment where criteria were required to be established and to establish certain limits. We need to seriously ask ourselves, and we're asking the question, we're sure that's the case, and we're asking the state for an answer to how to stop it. Today in Serbia, at a time when enormously large social differences, when the large disintegration of the population, with a huge number of the poor, are now becoming increasingly a privilege of the rich. The Socialist Party of Serbia is against it. He thinks no one can be denied a study just because he doesn't have the money. The basic criterion must be knowledge, ability, etc. If someone has knowledge and no money, the state must resolve it when it comes to state colleges and simply make it possible for everyone, regardless of his material condition, to be able to school. Otherwise, we're moving more and more towards it, and it's already clear that going to college is a privilege for the rich. It's all paid. In college, they want you to pay 1,000 dinars to get your grade and issue a certificate. We've got the latest case at law school in ten, I think it's registered, 10,000. They're asking to pay for what's been photocopyed, without the right to copy somewhere, and it's all going to harm the students. In this whole thing, they're the only ones who are right and they deserve to get this kind of answer that's given. I'll be back specifically to this. I repeat, the answer is given on the legal side and he's OK. But the educational institutions stood by and used that law as much as they could. In one case and another, the cost is paid by the students. There's, like, a dilemma about whether or not a graduate should be equalized with the current new name graduate master. I'm sure it's also a mistake that it's simply a detail, and if it isn't, it's not worked out later, and I repeat, we had a year to get the Ministry out with a proposal to amend and supplement the law to solve these problems. Now that I look at it like this, if a member of 127 says he has the right to receive an appropriate name, according to the nomenclature referred to in Article 95, the National Council for Higher Education, on a proposal from that same Conference of the University, on 30 March 2007, established lists of professional academic scientific names, with an indication of the proper degree of study. Now I'm asking, let's take legal science, stand here and say – academic studies basic, lawyer, abbreviations is right. Diplomatic, graduate lawyer-master, abbreviations degree. Okay. Diplomatic specialists, graduate lawyer-specialist, abbreviations dipl. Right-speak. Now I'm asking you, if by law he's allowed to get an appropriate name, then what's the appropriate name here. There's only three here: a lawyer, it's first degree, I guess not, and there's a graduate lawyer master and a graduate lawyer specialist, I guess a specialist in some areas. What I'm asking the Legislative Committee, is this an interpretation of Article 127. The law suspends the possibility for the University Conference to establish criteria that will apply to all or not. Whether or not it is automatic or still there is a possibility of being created and establishing these criteria. That's one of the important questions that matters here. Otherwise, if a graduate lawyer has completed one programme, and after 10 years the programme has changed and is no longer the same, he remains a graduate lawyer and there are people right when they say must protect that legal security and that acquired rights. Now this system we've entered is different. We now have a situation where a graduate lawyer can wonder where I am right now in this whole thing. Someone put out an idea that could be thought about, if this were evened out with a graduate lawyer-master, allowing a graduate lawyer to go to doctoral studies, but I don't believe that it prevents the university or colleges from saying, is when we calculated how much about the points that you've brought with what it takes, that means 300, and there's no other option. In the course of doctoral studies, you need to make another 20 points, 15, 28 etc. So there are solutions, they simply didn't denigrate those who needed such a solution to find a way to propose to the congregation to explain these things, not to have any dilemmas, but simply everyone saw in everything what his interest was. The college to organize master studies, it doesn't matter what program, give two thousand euros, three thousand etc. Guys, not knowing what they're gonna do, come on, pay up, so go and do something like that. I'm going back to the beginning, it's the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, it had to look at the implementation of this law, the situation in this area, and when it faced this problem, to come up with a proposal to amend and supplement all these misunderstandings. I'm afraid the Legislative Committee has no place to go and there's nothing else to say, legally speaking, but there remains a question for the minister and the university authorities why they didn't warn in time. And there's already been a lot of talk, a lot of talking about it, people have warned, that I'm not taking the time for the consequences and this. Someone even said maybe this is the least bad solution of all the bad ones. I'll finish the story, the responsibility for this is the Ministry of Education, the one who has to worry about how it works and who's obliged to come out with the laws on how to fix it. It is not allowed, as it has already done, to amend, by agreement, not even by regulation, a provision of a member of the Law on Higher Education, you all remember it was almost in the press, not where laws are passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8276	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of G17 plus, DSS, New Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, the Party of Minority and the Socialist Party of Serbia, a total of 12 MPs. Have Mr. Shane prepare for the discussion after Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8277	I'd just like to put a few programming definitions of ours out in that direction, too, to say the following. As the Roma Party, we believe that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government must continue to work on reforming education in Serbia and that we have equal problems both in secondary schools and in colleges. I would remind you that only in high school, when someone graduates from high school, about 50 percent of graduates cannot be employed because they have no adequate diploma and are not prepared for the process to be involved in production. On the other hand, in this direction, we must also reform higher education and create conditions that young people can get involved in the process of work as soon as possible. In this sense, it is good for us that there is Bologna, which in some cases is given the opportunity to shorten the process of education and that people can start working as soon as possible, because Serbia simply needs new strength, young people who have and who are ready to accept new ideas, and who are ready to engage in some new flows, to create them this formal opportunity to engage in the process of work. On the other hand, we do not think that the Serbian Parliament should be exhausted, thereby the society in Serbia, as we will compare each other. It is difficult to compare what came from a system of education with what comes from a new system of education, but it is necessary to create conditions, so that, in accordance with its acquired rights, each individual is not demoted in relation to his position today. One more thing, I think it is a serious commitment of the Serbian Parliament, we must not let ourselves produce in Serbia only high and higher human resources schools that are average, which will study for three years and enter the production process, because, unlike us, Cambridge, Yale, there are other universities that, practically, produce scientists, produce quality personnel. Serbia used to have scientists who could deal with them. Many Serbian scientists are now the managers of certain institutes and institutions in the West, and are the best at it. So Serbia has to in particular open a new chapter when it comes to education reform, which is how it will produce scientists, which in this sense will have the calling of a magistrate, a doctor and they will continue to deal equally on the world market with all other scientists, as they have dealt with so far. So we're going to support this interpretation for a simple reason because we want to distinguish two things. One thing is to train people to enter the process of production and to get young people involved in the process as soon as possible. The second thing is that Serbia should not lose the match internationally when dealing with scientists and scientific workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8278	I thank the People's MP Srdjan Shin. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, there is a serious paradox at this point in the agenda -- no difficult problem, no simpler solution. Of course, the solutions in that part where it is simply necessary to interpret what is written in the law, that is what the Legislative Committee did, I think that he suggested only what he could suggest, along with the fence that I am not a lawyer, therefore I cannot be competent to the end, but what the Legislative Committee suggested is only possible in this situation. However, that, of course, does not solve the problem. The problem is multiple, the problem is multiple, and what I think is common, is that somehow everyone is running away from solving it. In fact, the solution may be, as indicated here, that, perhaps, some controversial provisions or existing legislation have been upgraded by some new provisions, but by nature of things, here I think the key solution lies that those who really understand this problem, which are, above all, the universities of Serbia, with, no doubt, the greatest responsibility of the Belgrade University, as the largest and oldest, are really trying to get into the essence of the problem. Because, you know, we can legally observe here and say that and that diploma corresponds to that and that diploma, etc., but we are all deeply aware that there are differences between college and college, from university to university, differences in programme, in quality of program, in the quality of people who perform these programs. We know all that, but we're not the ones who need to say it. Fortunately, I think that almost all the MP clubs in their composition have university professors, I'm a university professor myself, but I can say that it looks like a programme at the Faculty of Mathematics or possibly at some technical college, as it seems, a program at the Faculty of Psychology really doesn't know, as I suppose my colleague Mr. Korać wouldn't say about the math program either. It's something those responsible can't escape from. Unfortunately, I'm afraid in one part Mr. Petronijevic is right and that in that galatias of unsolved things everyone tries to look at their own interest, so we'll rather organize master studies if we can charge it etc. That's one thing. The other thing lies somewhere in our nature, that was, of course, and in earlier times, also in just another way, it is certain that we should and should have accepted the Bologna rules of the game, it is not asked as a question, but in that acceptance of the Bologna rules of the game we do not need the champions of Bologna. There's also Mr. Pocurica right. We don't need the first fighters, we don't need the ones that are going to drill into the chest and who, formally simply accepting some of the outer frames of Bologna, will enter into its real essence. It's mentioned here, although it's not about that right now, and the question and the problem of funding college, I'm afraid we've kept it unarranged, we've personally kept, I think, the wrong, old rules of the game, and we've only upgraded some new rules of the game, including the appearance of a large number of private colleges, which, let me say, that's my own personal opinion, I don't have an excessively high opinion. In other words, we have, fortunately by this assembly, a very quality committee, I personally think, for education. Quality by its composition, because it's mainly about people who have experience and work in colleges, and work on schools. I think it's quality in that sense, but theoretically, this assembly could have had an educational board composed of completely incompetent people for that area, because we're MPs, we didn't come here as representatives of the proper professions. Fortunately, I say, a high-quality committee, but deliberately and knowingly, I didn't want to schedule this committee before this session, because this question is not a question of the Committee on Education, this was a matter of the Legislative Committee, to interpret the law as it was written, not entering, of course, how this law should possibly be written and not going into what universities, and finally some other institutions, which, by the logic of things, could be dealt with, why not the Academy of Sciences, etc., that they don't want to do this job and simply want to get away from the problem. Of course, it is doubtless that in the whole story the most correct and the most damaged those who ask for this problem to be solved are the current students, as well as those who, according to some old rules, have finished colleges and who would now want to put their status in order, to know what their rights are and what their rights are and what their rights are not. We're on the Education Committee tomorrow, so after this debate here, because I take this debate as a debate on what legal interpretation is, and not as a debate on what it's really supposed to be like, we can give some instructions to the Ministry, but I think the university community is an address that can't escape from solving this problem. As difficult as it may be, but it's the only place that can compare, so to say -- this and that college have programs adapted to a certain level, there's a proper quality of teaching, etc., and that college there doesn't have it, because obviously, until the essence of that story, you can't find a solution to this problem. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8280	I thank Professor Zoran Shami. The word has been given by the People's MP, Professor Dr. Zarko Korac. Let the People's MP, Professor Zoran Mašić, be prepared. I purposely highlight the titles of people who are discussing because the discussion is very good quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8281	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Vice President, I think it is still relatively irresponsible that our assembly has received such a request to discuss it. As you can see, this discussion is a rare discussion, where political parties are not important, but people are trying to find a way out of one of the situations that arose because, at the time, Serbia-Montenegro, the state, signed the Bologna Declaration, as practically all European countries, and agreed to make one radical reform of higher education. This reform is very serious and, as is said here, it aims to build in the world that we are going to, in the HHI century to create from Europe uniformly, to say, it is a terribly ugly word, a knowledge market, or to make Europe a place where under practically the same or similar conditions young people are educated and then their diplomas are compatible. Of course, there have been many problems here that are not the subject of this congregation. There are good ideas in Bologna, reducing courses, fighting, licensing, the way teachers are chosen, what magazines are, and it's all irrelevant for this assembly. The question of who the students came to, and they're right, which they've been asking for for a year and a half to answer a simple question. Those are two-part questions. The first question is, what happens to diplomats, which are given by the old system of study. I think the answer is, of course, simple. Those diplomas, they're acquired rights and they stay, of course, the way they are, if necessary, undermining it once more. But what's a fundamental question, is that one number of students ask to equalize master and diploma, and that's where all the problems begin. What does that really mean? I'll say it right away. Because the master's studies last longer than in principle the studies at most universities at universities in Serbia. There's one of the basic problems, and there's some others. I have to tell you that this is not a problem, I'll be brief, this is not Serbia's only problem. So, if it makes you feel any better, this is what other countries are dealing with. Let's just say, I happen to know that in Spain, this is the same fracture and they don't know exactly what to do. But I think it is irresponsible that everyone in this country who was supposed to give an opinion on this has gotten away with it and left it to the Legislative Committee of the Serbian Parliament, or the Serbian Parliament. It is truly amazing that the Conference, the former community of the University of Serbia, including Belgrade University, which is the oldest university in Serbia, but of course other universities, to give their interpretation. So let my colleagues out, let them tell us the MPs here, we are now MPs here, as they see the solution to this problem, because the problem exists. I can also give you specific questions. Most European countries today, when a new student leaves, ask him to be a master and ask him if he has the calling of a master, the knowledge of a graduate psychologist, mathematician, etc. We can traditionally keep that name, but the system of studies three plus two or four plus one longer are studies. Just so we don't open Pandora's box, which they're looking for some from technical colleges, etc., rightly, it's to stab their studies as they looked to date, so you'll have a smaller problem we'll solve a bigger problem, then we'll discover that some colleges are far from Bologna, and let me say, from this pay phone, honestly, some colleges are long ago on that Bologna, if they're not something better than that. So don't just, please, that Pandora's box, 'cause then it's just gonna break. In other words, I think it would be fair for this assembly, in addition to this interpretation, to request the position of the Serbian University Conference. My colleagues are obliged to give us an answer to that question. I will personally respect their position, agree not to agree, and ask the MPs to determine the calls, scientific, of course, interpretation we have the Legislative Committee, but that's not a formal question, it's essential, which students are looking for. They're practically asking for today's diplomas to be acquired, former post-war diplomas, turned into masters. There's a lot of misinformation in public. Maybe some country will do it, as far as I know, no country has done it in such a direct way so far, and it could result in our master diplomas actually not being valid in Europe, because they will very quickly discover that they are the result of four-year studies in the old way, not in a new way of five-year studies. Once again, I think we should... This responsibility can also be assumed, I say right away, that Serbia can do so, it is not at all controversial, but I would like, before us, to agree once again with my colleague, Shami, that the Serbian University Conference simply gives us an interpretation, let us make a proposal. 'Cause I'm sorry, don't be mad at me, you should invite some of my fellow educators, etc., to come here and the people who do business, there are people in Serbia who are dealing with a higher education system, to give a professional lecture here, what is a master then, the Bologna Declaration, what are its objectives. It's a very serious topic. This is the topic - Europe is preparing for XXIvek, America is a huge market, intellectually, Asia, in India nothing giant intellectual, and Europe is in defensiveity, it has decided to go offensively. There are things in the Bologna Declaration that don't suit me either, I don't think they're particularly smart, too fast going too far, but there are great things in the proposal. So it's an attempt that we, we can't be beyond that. Just to warn you that my graduate students have problems right now when they're going to some foreign countries to work because they're asking -- are you done according to the Bologna Declaration, or do you have a master, and they don't have a master, and then these countries often don't allow themselves to join a society of psychologists, not to bother you now, and they can't work as psychologists. So, once again, I agree with my colleague Shami. I would ask, honourable Members of Parliament, all of you, so this is no longer a political matter, no longer an expert, that the Community of the University of Serbia Conference should, in a short period of time, not act as the Ministry of Education that a year and a few days does not give an interpretation, that it gives us a proposal, and here, I solemnly declare, I will respect what he is proposing here, and not leave the MPs here to break their heads on whether the masters of diplomas can be formally equalized because of our graduates, when they go to the white world tomorrow, especially in Europe to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8282	I would like to thank Professor Dr. Zarko Korač, the MP of the people. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, to prepare the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8283	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I think that this interpretation that we are discussing today, the Legislative Committee, should have been done and already immediately after the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, because many of the things that have happened in this past period at higher education institutions, means colleges and universities, should not have happened, and this is that, in fact, a large number, not to say, most of the colleges since the adoption of the Law in 2005 have already opened masters' studies with competition and we have had opportunities to see it in the papers. Many universities have made it possible by their amendments to the statutes. We have this year, too, and in essence, if this law is literally interpreted and this member, as the Committee for Legislatives has given, the Master-Study can in fact organise no college until a generation has arrived that has started studying since September 2005. Basically, it achieves a condition, depending on whether the one who enrolled in the university has enrolled basic studies or will then continue through the graduate studies. So there was a great galamatia in higher education that could have serious consequences. We are in the process of discussing this law, I say, and then I think of the MPs of the SRS, saying that certain provisions did not rightly resolve higher education in our country and that there can simply be problems and consequences, and especially our habit that something we want to accept from that developed world is now acceptable for granted and implemented without realistic consideration of our options. So, as well as moving on to study under the Bologna Convention in our economic, social, and if you want scientific achievements, I don't think it's realistic and many colleges are organizing teaching according to a new model, or by me, quasireforms will essentially lead to the necessary collapse of our education system. So, personally, and we as a parliamentary group, we think it's good that this interpretation is given and that it represents a transitional period, and at the same time defining what the law means to all who have completed basic studies until the adoption of the law and those who studied the previous years, until 2005, they studied under the old law and by the statutes of those colleges that were in accordance with that old law. One might say that it is unfair for someone who has completed primary studies, four years old, five-year-old or six-year-olds, to receive such an interpretation by calling a master, and someone else who will end up under a new educational program, i.e. A new Law on Higher Education needs additional studies to complete to gain that calling. However, we cannot forget that just to get a master’s calling, basic studies are previously completed that last less, i.e. It will take less than the duration of our studies, for those of us who have completed colleges, because basic studies in law school should last three years, and at most four-year colleges it will take three years, and then it will take a year or two days, or two more master studies to get a call - a graduate lawyer and that graduate lawyer could be a judge or lawyer. That's what she's got to do with four-year-olds. In any case, it is good for this interpretation to be applied to all universities and universities, and it is certainly important because of the schooling of scientific and pedagogical subjugation, meaning that future assistants or scientific researchers who will work in scientific institutes, because equating those who have completed basic studies under old laws with masters will allow all those who completed those basic studies with a higher average score of 8.5 to enroll doctoral studies. Basically, it is the only, if I may say so, advantage or confirmation of the possibility and in some way and convenience, because the former candidates who completed basic studies with an average above 8 were to say that whoever wanted to continue their education first enrolled in master's studies, and the condition was an average score of 8, to listen to the course for two years and to become a master in three years, then report a doctoral dissertation, to doctorate and to continue to go into scientific or teaching skills, to the elections. This essentially gives benefits to better students who have completed their basic studies so that they can enroll in doctoral studies, although the previous law also means the last and the previous law before this latest one, it is also possible for those who have completed their basic studies with an average rating, although above 9, that they can enroll in doctoral studies immediately, but unfortunately at that time none of our colleges at any university had any doctoral studies programmes and a fact-finding, talented graduates were given the opportunity to doctorate for 3-4 years, but all of them had to be directed to master studies, and only then to do doctoral dissertation. And I would use this opportunity for a few more minutes to point out all the disadvantages of our much easier transition to new study regimes and reforming the educational process, studying according to that so-called. The Bologna Convention, which it is currently leading to far-reaching problems. First, and this is present at all colleges, the studies are shortened, so the subjects that were two-monthly are essentially translated into one-monthly, to increase the fund of the class and instead of reducing the number of classes, introduce new subjects and burden students, so objectively in three years or four, those colleges that will last four years won't be able to system - years after year - complete and expose all these exams and graduates. And the system of the Bologna Convention implies that the regime is about to change, that all the items that are being listened to in the year of study are to be entered next year as clean. It's simply inconclusive as most colleges reform curricula and programmes, em increases the number of subjects and decreases the length of study. Furthermore, what also disturbs the entire educational process is that there is no adequate basis for studying, especially today at universities where natural or biotechnical science experts are educated. In earlier times, the teaching base existed either in certain enterprises or in the field of livestock, veterinary, etc. in combination agriculturals, where students went to practical classes, and today most of such companies, combinations, the institution is privatized and essentially students no longer have the opportunity to use such a teaching base and is brought into serious problem of quality looking at practical teaching. On the other hand, the state did not provide additional funds and additional resources to enable a quality teaching process now with reformed curricula and programmes, but was improvised and essentially educated by disabled experts for certain areas of expertise. What will have serious repercussions, it's a scientific spring and a teaching rejuvenation. In essence, calling assistants or assistants has been abolished, but it is possible that those who enroll master studies can be similar to volunteers, but only one year longer, and only those who enroll in doctoral studies can be selected for assistants. And there are many colleges or not going to the reception of young staff and because they don't have enough resources or because there was an indetermination whether you and such candidates should first go to master's studies, even though they completed studies under the old law, and then continue doctoral or enroll doctors immediately. We have quite a problem in schooling scientific youth and in colleges, and in institutes. Furthermore, reform cannot be implemented, especially education, and sciences, I do not separate it at all if the state does not provide more resources for education, primary and secondary education, especially higher education, and certainly for better quality scientific research work, so that we do not have any significant improvements, but through the budget provide more or less resources with a slight increase. If we are entering reforms, it should certainly be understood that much more resources are being provided, especially as there is still a problem of very low income teachers and co-workers in colleges. No reform can be carried out, the quality of the educational process cannot be raised, if those who participate most directly in it, and these are teachers and associates, are no longer better paid. Our university professors earn as a mid-term in most public utility companies and other far less important institutions and businesses. I think the state must also make a serious effort to provide much greater resources for teachers and co-workers in education. In the end, what I would like to say, and what is our position, is that we support the equalization of the diplomas of all those who have graduated from the old law and those who will finish, and have studied according to the old law until the adoption of a new one. In order to verify whether colleges and universities respect it, I suggest that the educational inspection after, hopefully, adoption of this interpretation is done in a future period of the university to check whether it is respected, or whether a good part of the university will organise master studies for those for whom, according to this interpretation, there should be no need to listen to such studies and ultimately complete them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-17-0.u8284	Thank you, Professor. This is where we stop. Your work is due tomorrow from 11:00 p.m., and I'll inform you that we'll be working tomorrow by 7:00 p.m. Thank you very much.
