ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10286	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 130 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Jevtic, Gordana Comić, Borka Vukic, Riza Halimi, Ivica Dacic and Tomislav Nikolic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – The choice of the Constitutional Court judge from the list of candidates submitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia has been received by the list of candidates for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, with the biographical data of the candidates, as well as the consent of the candidates to accept the candidacy. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament group as you know it. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 178(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS is MP Zoran Krasic, and the LDP's authorised representative is the MP Nebojsa Randjelovic. Here you are. The People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has the word, and then the National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10287	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a discussion on the second item of the agenda, regarding the election of the Constitutional Court judges from the list proposed by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. Of course, for this part of the appointment procedure, and then the constitutional court's constitution, what we said is true by criticising the provisions of the Constitutional Court Bill. First of all, we have some objections about principle issues. The first is, which procedure was applied when setting out a list of 10 candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court. Namely, Article 172. The Constitution speaks of the composition of the Constitutional Court and of the state body to which the proposal is made, but nowhere is the procedure, i.e. the way in which the list takes place as an official proposal. It can be said that, as regards the appointment of the first Chamber of Constitutional Court, it was impossible to apply the second procedure to the one for which Article 172 was granted. The constitution, but I am obliged to remind, in line with what I was talking about in criticising the Constitutional Court's draft law, that this proposal does not foresee a procedure that comes to candidates who are to be judges of the Constitutional Court. In fact, in the proposal for a law that we have already discussed, which we have criticised, only Article 11 mentions the procedure, and the fact that Article 11 refers only to Article 172. A constitution that doesn't really mention any procedure. So I ask you a question, Mr. President, and I hope to get an answer, which procedure has been applied to make 10 candidates today, or when voting day will be decided by the National Assembly? As the procedure was applied, I would also ask the question of which criteria were applied? When we discussed the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Candidates to be proposed by the National Assembly to the President of the Republic, the discussion was also held, because some candidates were found on the list who by no criteria could satisfy what is required in the Constitution, which is that the candidate for the Constitutional Court can only be a prominent lawyer, i.e. someone who deals with law school professors, as it stands in the Constitution. In line with what we have in front of us, or this list of biographies, we can conclude that this approach, or procedure, was not taken into account even when a list of 10 candidates to be declared by the National Assembly was drawn up. Obviously, the list proposed by the President of the Republic and the list to be proposed by the National Assembly indicate that it will be a party court that will be in the back. So this court, at the very beginning of its former existence, bears two negative characteristics. One is that there are only one judges, leading to the possibility of any kind of obstruction, which can only be done by one judge, that they are not respected criteria, or that there are people on the list who cannot be judges of municipal courts, and let alone judges of the Constitutional Court. One principle question is also asked, namely, the working and legal status of Judges of the Constitutional Court, the draft law on the Constitutional Court, and neither the Constitution regulates. We discussed this extensively and extensively during the debate on the draft law on the Constitutional Court. I am not asking that question by chance because, according to the applicable labour law, which will also apply to the Constitutional Court judges, because there is no Lex specialis that treats this matter, here in this list we find people who, by current regulations, say candidate Vlatkovic next year, need to start a pension; he meets the conditions for retirement next year, and then Mrs Branka Curchia, and not to list any further. In line with the fact that the term of office of the Constitutional Court is nine years, the question is what will happen to the Constitutional Court when the labour law regarding the Constitutional Court and the judge of the Constitutional Court are applied, or whether we will go through all this procedure, which we do not know which rules apply, again next year, when judges who are appointed these days will meet the conditions for retirement. The LDP parliamentary group will not support this approach to the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, among other things, and because no procedure has been established, which has been used in the procedure for the appointment, or for the establishment of the list of judges, and which has been appointed by the President of the Republic and the list of candidates for judges appointed by the National Assembly. In line with the reasons that I have now cited regarding the principle issues of procedure, and the essential issues that we see from the biography of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, the position of the LDP parliamentary group will be like this. Mr. President, I would like to thank you for your attention and note that we will use the other 10 minutes during the final hearing after the debate has been held.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10288	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic reported, and will then be given the word to Pastor Balint, as head of the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10289	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure. I will quote him: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by government members, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who call on the president of the National Assembly." I'll quote Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The Constitutional Court is a independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. The decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be final, executive and binding. '"We're talking today about candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court. What kind of atmosphere does this debate run into? Where are the government's representatives, where are the name promoters we need to talk about today? Why such disrespect for such an important institution that this country needs? We held consultations before the beginning of this session. They spoke to the heads of Parliament. Some legal inconsistencies, inconsistencies, inaccuracy are mentioned, but precisely inaccuracies and inaccuracies have been binding on the representatives of the promoters, regardless of whether we are talking about representatives of parliamentary groups who have proposed candidates for judges or a representative of the President of the Republic, if he himself does not want to appear here. We find these arguments less important, but we need to show a different attitude towards such an important issue as the formation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. It is an obligation that is not answered in time, and it is an obligation that is not answered properly today. So it's a new mistake. What court do we recognize if we do not recognise the Constitutional Court and which court do we respect, if we do not respect as a Parliament such an important institution, such as the institution of the Constitutional Court, whose decisions are final, executive and general binding? There are no government representatives. Is that the message of those who promised us the rule of law, the message with which Parliament should agree? There is no representative of the President of the Republic, there is no one who can answer those questions that we ask. What procedures have these candidacys been under, and by what criteria? Politically, as has always been done in Serbia, in Milosevic's time, and in DOS times, but also today. If there was no possibility of these changes being introduced in 2001, when the Constitutional Court was elected, why are they not present, why are they not defined by the Constitution? Because no one thought about Serbia's future. Political coverage for the failed political project has been sought and Serbia is paying the price today. In this constitution, both criteria and procedures were defined by which judges of the Constitutional Court were elected. It has not been done knowingly, it is not a random failure, it is a message from those who were then in power, who are today the government, that they will be the ones who will interpret and protect the law and the laws in this country, but also independent institutions that would put any of their actions outside the law and outside the Constitution, as it has been the case so far. In one bad way the debate started, this is a shame, this is a humiliation of citizens, and this is a violation of the fundamental democratic principles in which the country must develop, because it is clear that through this procedure we will not get the Constitutional Court that this country needs. As for the non-culture that marks this debate, I regret that it comes from the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10290	The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, in front of the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, I must say that it is our pleasure to have the Constitutional Court's work unblocked after more than a year, but I should also say that neither in the debate on the Constitutional Court's draft law here has anyone said who is responsible for the fact that such an important institution, such as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, has been working for more than a year. Who is responsible for the Constitutional Court having about 1,000 unresolved questions at the moment, and who is responsible for this situation? I think we also have to say from this pay phone that the full responsibility for this situation is borne by the parties that made up the previous and current government. So, the previous and current government, or those parties that have committed the previous and current government, should bear full responsibility for the fact that such an important institution, which has been operating in Europe for more than 90 years, means by Hans Kelsen, has not worked in this country for more than a year. In addition, I should also say, that is, I am forced to say that it is very bad that we do not have the President of the Republic here today, as the author of the list of judges, or we do not have at least a representative of these judges. It is not only the humiliation of the Constitutional Court institutions and it is not only the humiliation of Parliament, as Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said, but I also consider it a humiliation of these candidates proposed by the president of the Republic. I think it's very bad for these people who have accepted to be candidates for the Constitutional Court judges that there's no one here who would have said why he thought these people were on the list of candidate judges of the Constitutional Court. Since there's no proposing or proposing, I don't know how comprehensive it is to say anything about these names. I don't know how comprehensive it is to ask any questions, but I think it's a good thing to do, if not for other matters, then for the citizens and for the public. We must assume that all those persons on this list, as candidates for the Constitutional Court Judge, professional people, are prominent lawyers, to meet both human and moral conditions for them to be candidates for the Constitutional Court. We can't argue that, we simply find that the President of the Republic certainly isn't, it's an overwhelming assumption, but we must consider that the President of the Republic would not propose anyone to judge the Constitutional Court who doesn't meet both the professional and the moral, and the human conditions of the Constitution and the law to be a candidate for the Constitutional Court. Also, without contesting that all these people are both moral and honorable and good lawyers, I should also say that it is very sad that the President of the Republic did not think that it is important that on this list candidates for the Constitutional Court are also representatives of national minorities. I think it is a very, very bad signal to members of the national minorities, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a signal that, despite the fact that one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia is made up of representatives of national minorities, the president of the Republic of Serbia, who should be president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believes that national minorities do not have prominent lawyers, moral and honorable people who would be worth proposing for judges of the Constitutional Court. I must say, despite the fact that there is no President of the Republic, that national minorities, and Croats, both Bosniaks and Hungarians, and Slovaks, and Romanians, and Albanians, but I am also sure that both Roma and other national minorities in the Republic of Serbia have moral, honorable and professional candidates to perform their duties or the work of the Constitutional Court judge. I am sure that national minorities also have judges, and public prosecutors, and lawyers and professors at law schools throughout the Republic of Serbia who could be judges of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, Mr. Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia, did not mean that on this list of 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, there is not one candidate belonging to a national minority in the Republic of Serbia. It is fortunate that, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court is not only proposing the President of the Republic, but also proposing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Regardless of what is the next item of the National Assembly agenda, I would like to say immediately in this place that the Manjin parliamentary group and the Vojvodjan group of MPs have candidates for the Constitutional Court of national minorities, and these candidates will be on that list, and only from the President of the Republic will it depend on whether any of these candidates and become the judge of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to appeal from this place to the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic that, if he did not do so in the first step, he did not propose that one of the members of the national minorities be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, then at least select a candidate, a member of the national minority, as judge of the Constitutional Court from a list to be proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure it is in the interest of the entire Republic of Serbia to have at least one Constitutional Court judge as a member of national minorities, and I would like to underline once again that I am sure that national minorities, which make up one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia, have moral, honorable and professional people to perform the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10292	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic and then MP Vladan Batic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10293	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I am as a citizen, as a lawyer, and as a MP, happy that Serbia will be given the Constitutional Court. I think the proposed candidates and the Constitutional Court law are just creating a guarantee for the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10294	Mr. Ristic, you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10295	Yes, I can say that's Article 178. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which defines the procedure for the selection and resolution of officials elected by the National Assembly. Article 178 provides that the National Assembly shall elect the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court. Article 172. The constitution says the National Assembly elects five candidates from the list of 10 proposed by the Assembly by the president of the Republic of Serbia. The authority of the president comes from the Constitution itself. The president won the elections and represented the will of Serbian citizens, and he has the constitutional authority to propose to the Assembly the choice of Constitutional Court judges, and on the other hand he also has the authority to appoint five Constitutional Court judges from a list delivered to him by the Assembly, with a list of 10. As the President of the National Assembly does not have the obligation, the right, or the authority to explain to the President of the Republic of List, which the Assembly delivers to the President, so on the principle of equality that the Constitution wanted to establish between Parliament and the President in this situation, to distribute powers between the Executive Authority of Parliament and the President of the State, as well as the President of the Republic has no obligation and has no right, because it is not given to the Constitution to explain it to the Assembly and lobby for five of the 10 candidates forwarded by the Assembly. As for the reasons why the Constitutional Court has not been established so far, I can say, only on behalf of the DS, that the first option, based on the Constitution and the Law, is the implementation of the Constitution, when a motion was put before the Assembly to elect judges of the Constitutional Court and a law that defines both the position and procedure of the Constitutional Court. The DS, therefore, cannot bear responsibility for the political crisis that the parliament and government have found in the last term, and the political crisis is resolved by the elections and the adoption of the constitution and the law for its implementation. Therefore, I would like to conclude that I consider it of the citizens of Serbia's interest that the Constitutional Court be established, that both the President and the Constitutional Court are elected. I believe that the proposed candidates that the Assembly will refer to the president, and on the other hand the candidates that the president has sent to the Assembly, are a full guarantee that we will have people from the professions that have contributed to the development of the legal system, their biographies say, that the Constitutional Court is performing its function according to how his position has been defined by the Constitution. I expect better protection of civil rights, minority rights and freedoms, as well as guarantee that state institutions will work better and more efficiently and that the state will essentially serve citizens in protecting their rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10296	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of the provisions of Article 27, and it concerns your responsibilities, your duties and your responsibilities, Mr. President. First, you should have presented Mr. Ristic as an authorised representative of the President of the Republic. I don't know what he advertised, but he didn't advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure anyway. And as for responsibility, Mr. Ristic, for the dissuasion of the Constitutional Court, the DS may have no consequences for the state before the formation of the Government, but in any case it will bear responsibility for such a proposal and for this future composition of the Constitutional Court. Mr. President, since you are obliged to take care of the respect of the Constitution, you should have returned this proposal to the President of the Republic. Why? Because the Constitution in Article 172, paragraph 5 says that judges are elected and appointed among prominent lawyers. In his explanation of this list, the President of the Republic says one sentence: "I consider the proposed candidates to have professional and personal qualities based on which I can perform the function on which I have proposed them." What did the President of the Republic explain to the constitutional provision that these are prominent lawyers? There's no explanation. So, the Constitution is broken. That's one thing. Secondly, the law stipulates that the Constitutional Court judges are elected on time of five years. Three out of ten proposed candidates retire next year. Only two can meet the condition that all nine years will be judges of the Constitutional Court. So what do we choose? Em moles, em party, em pension court. Next year's gonna be a mess here again. When one retires, it can't be decided by a two-thirds majority, for those things the Constitutional Court should treat as two-thirds majority. Furthermore, Mr. President, five out of the ten candidates proposed have not passed a judicial exam. So we're going back to some lay court, back to the time of the former regime when the courts of joint labor, lay courts, when the economist, the late Mr. Butulija, was the President of the Constitutional Court. So, this way, and you're responsible for it, you're choosing a party, a horse, a pension, a layman and a completely unskilled, incompetent and unprofessional court. We can't make go away, Mr. Ristic, that court, on the principle of "better anything than nothing," we haven't had, so now anyone can be the judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10298	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bajram Omeragic and then MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10299	Article 27. I'm looking for an explanation on the President's proposal for a candidate for the Constitutional Court Judges. I looked at the biographies, and in the biographies, it's where the candidates work now, where they live. I saw almost 90 per cent of those on the list living and working in Belgrade, and I thought the Belgrade Constitutional Court was being elected. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is elected, and I think, what my colleague Balint Pastor said about the fact that one third of Serbian citizens are citizens belonging to national minorities and it would normally be in every society that at least two candidates from the ranks of national minorities, who meet the law provided for to be judges of the Constitutional Court, are also proposed by the President of the Republic, since none of the ten candidates has been proposed by any member of the national minorities. I would not quote analysts, nor would I quote a president, who many times thanked national minorities for being identified as a democratic candidate in the second round of elections for the president of the Republic, however, none of the ten candidates were proposed. I therefore call on the President of the Republic to elect these two candidates, which is the National Assembly, and that what we were taking in Brussels the other day, to celebrate that we are approaching the European Union, to respect European values, and the rights of national minorities are respected in Europe. You know, when we were re-enlisted in the Council of Europe... Mr. President, I'd like you to note, because I can't speak, make noise and earn. (President: Please. ) It is our interest that the sooner the Constitutional Court begins its work, because in law theory there is a principle of legal certainty and some old lawyers have said that it is better to have the worst law than not to have any law. It's better to have any constitutional court than not to have a Constitutional Court. Therefore, we must do everything to choose the Constitutional Court, that this state forms all the institutions that it needs to rule over the rule of law, because if it had the rule of law, today in Novi Pazar, they would not experience a director coming to the High Religious School and saying, "I'm kicking the students out of school because their safety is at risk." He's still holding a press conference and he says, "I shut the kids out of school for safety reasons." Two hundred or three believers must bow in the street. Mr. Omeragic, your time is up. ) They have condemned constitutional law. The constitution guarantees the right to religion, the right to education, and some children are only 14 years old. The school director, who receives salary from the Republika Srpska budget, informs us that he is in charge of the state of Serbia for security. Can you imagine? It's not the Ministry of Security and other institutions, but he as head of the school, he says, "For security reasons, I'm excluding a 14-year-old kid from school." Mr. Omeragic, your time is up. ) Therefore, it is necessary that we choose the Constitutional Court as soon as possible and that the Constitutional Court return these children to school...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10300	Thank you very much. You're out of time. I warned you a few times. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am reporting under Article 178, because it is obvious, for who knows which time, the Assembly has come into a situation that what has been proposed in advance as a bad solution, whether it is in the law or in the Constitution, sort of breaks it here in the Serbian Parliament. Unfortunately, we will also violate Article 166 in the election of candidates for members of the Constitutional Court. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms." Why are we going to break this article? Simply because the Constitutional Court judges will not be independent, because the Constitution has already determined how judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected. The very fact that the President of the Republic proposes ten candidates, ten proposed by the Serbian Parliament and ten candidates were proposed by the Supreme Cassation Court to talk about the fact that, in fact, all of this would be a political trade. Those are indisputable facts. We simply find ourselves as a state in a situation where different compromises allow us to come to better solutions, rather than worse solutions. Now you can see it here in the best way. He says "it is true that it is written in the Constitution, but the Constitution was brought by compromise, to be supported by all parties". Everyone has given up some of their demands, so the compromise has been set for the president of the Republic to propose ten candidates, which guarantees that his five candidates will be elected. It's true that he has both legality and legitimacy, but he's only one. We need to learn from all of this, to get into a situation really to get to the Constitutional Court, to the people who will represent, both professionally and morally, and on their own way of life, the people who really need to be judges of the Constitutional Court, and to make sure that their decisions are in the interest of the state, are in the interest of preserving the law. Not people who will have to vote on someone's order because they are in those places and elected by someone's order, waiting for the first next assembly of the Assembly to change the composition of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, I'm calling again, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10302	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10303	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101, I will briefly quote it, or interpret it. Ambassador Ristic of the DS misread my presentation. In fact, I am not at all contesting, nor is anyone from the LDP, the right of the President of the Republic to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, nor is it disputed on what this right is based on and what it comes from, nor are we contesting Parliament's right to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. We've pointed out a devastating attitude towards such a responsible job. There is no President of the Republic, no representative of the government, no one has called as an authorised representative of the motion. It's not an accident, it's an intention. That intention totally degrades such an important institution. The anomalies that we point to, which you yourself have mentioned, citing in fact the right of the president to propose to the candidates, and that he does not have to consult with anyone, the absence of rules that come to these candidacys, the criteria, and that is not an accident either. The compromises mentioned in the constitution were not compromises, it was a political trade, it was a flea market. The Constitution was more voted than the Constitution was written. More has been stolen for this constitution at the vote than has been thought about what needs to bring changes into the organisation of the country's lives, into its functioning. Finally, this constitution is disputed and it's in the very segment in which it deals with redecorating the judicial authorities, is that right, Mr. Ristic? The Venice Commission has pointed to major failures, and we have a problem with that. This problem can only be solved by changing the Constitution, amendments to the Constitution, but in addition, we need some kind of political support in this situation where we need a Constitutional Court. It would be easier if the President of the Republic or any of his representatives showed up here to sit with the government. Just look at the list of requirements to be discussed by the Constitutional Court and you'll see how serious these are. In front of a half-empty hall, there is a debate about a court that we all need to respect and whose decisions are binding on each of us. We, as a parliamentary group, will therefore vote against such a court. We don't need a party court. We need a court that will have the strength to tell the government or the ruling coalition that the decisions it has made outside the law and the Constitution of this country; a Constitutional Court that will protect the rights, dignity and constitutional freedom of citizens, when they are not ready to do so by other institutions; a Constitutional Court that will not have a problem returning this country to that course where it must be, since it belongs to the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10304	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras and then Bosko Ristic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10305	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported again on the violation of Rule 200 of this Rules of Procedure. On 9 October, Mr. President, I asked Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic how those in custody or prison could give interviews to daily newspapers. I did the same thing on October 10th from this assembly pay phone. You called me incorrect then, because I expect an answer in one day. A member of our 200th Rules of Procedure says there is an obligation for the minister to respond orally. If the minister isn't here, he's got eight days. Only in the most complex situations, when it takes a lot of time and a lot of operational action to get an answer, is it given 30 days. On 8 November, Thursday, the same question was asked by Minister Dusan Petrovic, who sat here. Dusan Petrovic said that then the chairman, Mr Albianic, did not want to go out for a pay phone, with a smile. On 9 November, on Friday, I asked Dusan Petrovic when we will get an answer to that question, as it has been 30 days, Dusan Petrovic said the issue is coming in that day, meaning 9 November. It's November 12th and there's no answer, no minister, no connoisseurs. When are we going to get answers to some questions, gentlemen from the DS? You allowed yourself, along with the DSS and the G17 plus, to divide Serbia into feuds. You did it with the ministries, you did it with the boards of directors, and now you're doing it with the Constitutional Court. We can't even discuss these candidates. They're completely irrelevant, and it's the way you chose it. Please, Mr. President, to characterize that there is no answer to all these questions, which is no answer I asked 35 days ago. If you could classify my question as incorrect, please characterise both the government's behaviour and the behaviour of a resolute minister who doesn't give an answer within the intended time limit, and get more answers to a question asked, how did you choose the Constitutional Court judges, why don't we know that. We don't know any criteria. There's no one here to explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10306	Thank you. I characterise it as incorrect that you didn't get an answer within the specified time limit. I hope the minister will give you an answer when he's here, and he'll be here soon when we discuss the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported. I'm sorry, Bosko Ristic, paDragan Todorovic. Bosko Ristic has given up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10307	I'm sorry, I'm going back to where I left off. What's the problem? The problem is that the Assembly must correct all problems for which it is objectively not responsible, including today’s choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Six months from now, she'll be here in a few days since the government was formed. Why are we discussing this today? After 30 days or 40 days, why did we not discuss all the questions and all the laws that we had to make? Because there's a problem in the ruling coalition. They just can't make a deal. They have a completely opposite view of important things, of different political interests, and this is particularly visible when it comes to presidential elections. So opposite, it's just amazing how this coalition still survives. But it went down to the Serbian Parliament. We all need, and you, too, from the ruling coalition, should simply "get chestnuts out of the fire" that are pushed into the government or at the top of one and the other party that needs to be negotiated. You're simply powerless because you don't have the opportunity, you don't have the arguments to see it for yourself that things are the way they are. But you have to get those chestnuts out of the fire. I thought you liked some other fruit, you seemed to have made progress in that sense, what was peeling, you know what it was. The problem here is also not only the right of the president to propose candidates, but, among other things, some representatives of national minorities honor the president for not proposing any national minority representative, because they rightly expect it because they supported him in the presidential elections. That, from what I've heard from an MP, says, as a democratic candidate, it's just amazing. Please explain to the citizens of Serbia who are not democratic or who are the parameters that have determined that one is democratic and that the other is not democratic. Is the parameters of the American ambassador, who tells you how you're going to vote, and who's democratic, who's not? How is it possible that in previous elections you were in a coalition with the Democratic Party, and now you are in a coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia? I don't mind, we understand each other, but it has nothing to do with democracy. It's a political trade. It can be said even within some limits when you cross the trade that it is political prostitution and then you want to honor us which candidate is democratic and which is not. Come out and explain the parameters that determine whether a candidate is democratic or not, or because they failed your expectations, or because you didn't get as much in the store as you thought you should, or if they cheated on you, I won't get into it at all. But don't deal with such qualifications, I don't think that's right at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10308	Replica, MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10309	I was prevented for energy reasons. Mr. Todorovic says that if you're in a coalition with one party, and you're with another, that I'm counting who you've been in the coalition with so far, and during your time, here it's said that some candidates don't even have judicial exams. In your day, the judges of the Constitutional Court were economists, as I recall, in your term, that reminds me of 1945, when a party body said there might not be a further law school. Just take it easy, wait till I'm done, make a line, one at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10310	Mr. Bajro, please continue, and I ask the MPs not to receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10311	Shorten your experience. I haven't spoken in a while, I know you miss me, but calm down, listen, you'll have a reason after. I said that in the second round and in the first round, minority representatives supported Boris Tadic, the president of the Democratic Party, and we thought he was Boris Tadic, and today we consider him a democratic candidate. We never told your candidate he was a non-democratic candidate. We didn't say he was democratic. As soon as you go to the elections, you sit in this assembly here, you admit the results, sometimes you have 10 MPs, sometimes you have a little bit more, you have 80 today, you do your job. I only said most of the national communities voted. You have commented on why the coalition of the Sandzak List in its last term was in coalition with Boris Tadic, now with Vojislav Kostunica, is now one of the presidents of the Democratic Party and the other Democratic Party of Serbia, and the two parties are the backbone of the government. So I want to tell you that national minorities have an interest always in being loyal to the state, of course in the stages of that state when it has legitimate leadership that deserves to be respected. We are minority and regional parties, we can't get 250 MPs and always run a policy of co-operation with the state. Our goal, what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is that minorities should be included in all institutions. Therefore, minorities have an interest in being involved in all institutions, and what Mr Balint and I have been saying – that, and now, it is necessary to include representatives of minorities in this very important judicial institution, to round up the institutionalisation of our judicial system, and all for the rule of law – that is the goal of minorities. Those who still think they're getting political points criticizing minorities, that time is over. I only call on President Tadic to correct the failure made in those 10 candidates in this way: that among the five candidates proposed by the National Assembly he chooses a representative of the national minorities, because these minorities deserve to be equal citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10312	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10313	It says our people, where you're itchy, that's where you scratch. It's obvious that the time of the presidential election and then the coalition somehow did not justify your expectations, and I'm not going into it at all. Each party's right to conclude coalitions or political agreements and, as far as the SRS is concerned, we will not only challenge it, but we will never question it. Whether it would be a good choice for you, whether it's a good estimate or not, we're not going to get into it, but it's obviously from what you said you said was bad, because if it was good for you now, you wouldn't call President Tadic to do what the SRS thinks you should do, that among the judges of the Constitutional Court should also sit representatives of national minorities. Mr. Omeragic, don't say we're going back to a time where national minorities are called. As far as the SRS is concerned, we have never, absolutely never shared any citizen of the Serbian state in religious, national or any of the traits. We have only divided into citizens who respect the Constitution and the law of this state, who are loyal citizens of this state, no matter which category they belong to. Not to remind you how many parties, Serbian parties, we have called for disrespect of this state, for disrespect of the Constitution, for calling even for bombings at the time of 99. As for the Constitutional Court judges and the election of the Constitutional Court judges, the SRS has absolutely never chosen a single judge of the Constitutional Court, absolutely. We were in power from 98th, from March to 2000 to the five-octobaric coup. During that time, no judge of the Constitutional Court was elected. Now we're trying to make this job as right as possible, to point out all the faults, all the problems, to fix later all this that's causing us a problem, to come to a good and smart solution. We didn't propose any judge here, we didn't go into these political stores, unlike you. You came in because as soon as you decided to take part in this, it was a political trade, but you should have done it before the president of Serbia suggested his 10, because why would the president of Serbia have the right to his five and then be given five, so that we could share here? This is what the problem has already been made by the choice of the Constitutional Court judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10314	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of Laslo Varga be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10315	This is a small variant of the Constitution and it corresponds to the point of the agenda, since the importance of the Constitution has come down to these dimensions. At first, I must point out that I am glad that everyone has criticised this proposal today, especially when he criticised Bosko Ristic. He said - DS has nothing to do with the proposal tabled by the President of the Republic. That's nice to meet you. So now everyone's washing their hands off him. Now everyone has seen clearly what Boris Tadic is like. What guides him when he suggests something and even when he's in office as president of the Republic? How does Boris do that? Interest. He proposed a list of 10 candidates, but there are two categories of candidates. There are candidates of the first category, for which Boris Tadic will condition DSS, NS, G17 plus, and there you will be unique when rounding up, you still don't know who these candidates are, and later I will tell you who these candidates are, as this ignorance syndrome spreads to Serbia. There are candidates of another category who will never pass, but they formally-legally meet the requirements. Now it takes a part of the opposition parties to live up to those candidates, who formally-legally meet the requirements, but are short of retirement or, as Mr Batic said, do not have a judicial exam. It's like a judicial exam was given by God. Our courts are full of people who have a judicial exam, so look at the judgments they're making. Mr. Batic, that's no criterion. For honesty, morality, honesty, patriotism, love, respect for a ban on discrimination, you don't need a judicial exam. All it takes is for a man to be a man. In the debate so far, everyone tried to avoid talking about names. Do you know why? Because you still don't know who's gonna pass. It's not a deal yet. The deal will fall when the third item of the agenda is finished, because the third and second points are tied to the store. In the people, that is what it means. Tants for corn. You give me these candidates, I give you these candidates. What does that mean? If, when voting on a proposal or on the proposed 10 candidates given by the President of the Republic, he is satisfied and you prove that you have respected the agreement, then he will consider whether, on the occasion of the third item of the agenda, if it passes, he will appoint those persons for whom he made an agreement with his political father, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Since everyone in this room knows that the store isn't finished, it didn't fall to the end, a little who's going to catch names and last names to talk about it. Radicals wouldn't have been radicals if they hadn't defined the phenomenon in the root, and it was a very bad, harmful phenomenon by the Constitution, by the people, by the state and all of this. You see Mr. Batic, register him, he'll complete everything I've missed. Besides, that's what we agreed. Let's move on in a row. The constitution envisioned the way judges of the Constitutional Court were elected, something similar exists in France and in some other countries, because such a choice should be a guarantee of independence. I must draw your attention that the Constitutional Court is now gaining much more importance because of the constitutional appeal. While there was only that classic - assessment of constitutionality and legality, the constitutional court was much more in the domain of theory, but by entering a constitutional appeal he inevitably entered into something called legal practice. No wonder there are a large number of candidates from the Supreme Court of Serbia, both on one and the other list, but apparently there are candidates according to political arrangements. How are we possibly supposed to get a candidate for the Constitutional Court? It should not be settled in the Constitution, but we should, from some explanation of this list, talk about the list proposed by the President of the Republic, see what led him when he proposed these 10. And these 10 candidates should be equal forces, equal meaning. But you immediately noticed that there is not the same strength, the same strength, but the first and second order of candidates. We don't even know what he was up to. If we take the criteria of the biography of the proposed candidates, then we don't know what criteria the President of the Republic applied. What's safe and you won't make a mistake, the only criterion is his interest in affecting these people. How can it affect? Now the new Constitution gives some new authority to the President of the Republic. This constitution allows the Constitutional Court to raise the question whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution and is not in any way the majority will be in that constitutional synod of its own, and whether it will pass and how it will pass. He is extremely interested in having such candidates, such as Slobodan Vučetic, who puts his finger on his forehead, and does not interpret our Constitution, but says - the constitutional and judicial practice of France, Germany, etc., states - and then strikes an interpretation that is completely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So this is a very important question. In order for you not to be too uninformed, I'm just going to ask you a question - and who do you think has to propose these 10 candidates, which the President of the Republic, existing or newly elected? Just to remind you, some did not participate in a new constitution campaign and for many reasons they can be angry with constitutional solutions, others have no right. Just to draw attention to you, when it comes to the Constitution and when it comes to constitutional law, it is said that no later than the first half of 2007 elections for the President of the Republic should be held and that is the first regular session. As this continues, we are not in a position to consider the proposal of the President of the Republic in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but rather to consider the proposal of the former President of the Republic, which is still the President of the Republic because of the Constitutional Law. This is the rightful president of the Republic. He can hardly draw all the powers from this constitution. I'd be very happy to be denied, and then I'd explain to him what's going on with the mayor and the other one. Why do we divide laws - this law we're going to apply a kilo, and this law we're going to apply two kilos. Next, the President of the Republic as a Proposer and the National Assembly as a proponent of those lists of 10 must make sure they do not violate the prohibition of discrimination. But when you make a list of candidates, there's no positive discrimination. Do not take the form of an exceptional legal knowledge and the reputation of interpreting it as those of G17 - expertise in front of politics. They say -- expertise, what black politics, they don't care. So you saw, the one who's an expert on Loto, is also an expert on airplanes, he's a universal expert. So they said -- expertise in front of politics, and then they say -- the G17 got so many public enterprises, so much -- isn't that contrary to expertise? Professionalism is when a competition is called, people who meet the conditions appear, so a man who is the best in his profession, who can do the job best. But no, the expertise in front of politics is for the people. And when you grab power, then politics only, there's no expertise. Where you're in charge of the seventh apartment in construction you already have, where that banana of yours is, now they're building his seventh apartment over that department. I give you this, and you give me an apartment. And so this Bogdanovic here worked, but let's go around him, come on. That's the expertise. What kind of expertise is that? To pull yourself together, to steal. The same expertise exists in the Constitutional Court, to pull back and steal. What? Election will, Constitution to be ruined, etc. Now let's move on to these candidates. All these candidates meet the requirements of Tadic. As far as radicals are concerned, Bosa Nenadic does not meet any conditions. It's that adviser Milan Panic, she's been in the Constitutional Court twice, she's had a working relationship at the Danube, she's still having some affairs with the apartments. I don't know what she's meeting, what conditions do she meet? She's supposed to be the continuity of these pussy constitutional courts with us. Of course the radicals won't vote for her. You won't make a mistake if you don't vote for her. She's been in the Constitutional Court too long. Furthermore, Radmila Vasic, professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. He is a professor, but the radicals believe she is unable to serve as judge of the Constitutional Court. If you don't believe us, go to law school and ask who it is, what it is. Or, for you, an even better personality, Marija Draškiæ. Come on, tell me, what condition does it meet? She charged the lustration. I've got a letter here from the college who it is, what it is. Her moral trait is, "butch dogs to bite you." Whoever hired her and who allowed her to become a professor, she bites that man, provokes, threatens the phones, I hear and some criminal procedure is being conducted. The one at Tadic meets the requirements. Why? Because he's going to do everything that Tadic says unspeakably. Dragisa Slepčević. Mr. Batic, where does his wife work? In the D.A.'s office, in the Republic of D.A.'s office. You know, Batic, everything, I know who to ask, I know who to ask. He'll explain after that after he's raised his hand. Now, you explain to me, what did Boris Tadic suggest to us? These are the candidates I'm sure DS will vote for. There are still spares, and there are those written down, which are there for minimum conditions, there must be ten names and names. You can imagine what this constitutional court would look like, if, say, these persons I mentioned entered the Constitutional Court, what decisions of the Constitutional Court would they be, who would stand behind those decisions of the Constitutional Court, who would be the inspirer, the creator, the idea creator of those decisions of the Constitutional Court? Even the European Court of Human Rights wouldn't be that important. I expect a discussion will develop and someone will defend these candidates, and I will read the characteristics. You know, there's a nice saying in Serbia that says -- which makes the fool proud, he's smart. We have these candidates who are very proud of something. One candidate writes that he's working with a Canadian someone there, one of them has something that ju-es-aid etc. It's a shame and a shame. Why would radicals vote for it, explain it to me. Here you have some professors who worked and wrote something, and the area they worked and wrote has nothing to do with the constitutional matter, absolutely nothing to do with the constitutional matter. I don't argue that some praises in court are that the great judges, how they can lead the departments. You have one bankruptcy expert here. How come you didn't arrest him when you arrested this bankruptcy mob? The bankruptcy mafia isn't just in the Trade Court, this first-degree one. It's spreading to the Supreme Court. A few days ago, I was telling you about a request to protect the legality that was legally impossible, but it doesn't matter. The verdict was signed by a judge who bought from Dafina's 160-square apartment. What are you attacking Dafina Milanovic, you from DS? You only appreciate who with Davina, with Jazda and these flies. You've got the most of them. Then you're telling a story in public. That's what the cabbage looks at, the meat pulls out. One thought, another story, the third one works. Now who's going to catch you. Here against the Horse and against the Dafina, and here the men who cooperated with Jazda and with Dafina. Why? Whose interest is that? Say, a third of DS, this block of DS. You of the Resistance need to strengthen the control of the DS, they've been taken from your control. But not the ones in the Parliament, the ones in the government that you control a little. The VAT, you know that trio, what do those people do? I am very pleased to see that in the acts of Bozidar Djelic, in what Pitic, Milosavljevic does, etc., the DS stands behind it. Then it's a form of recognition and identification. Then you prove that they have nothing to do with you, that they're forced on the side, that someone pushed them in, as you say of the Resistance. They're not ours, they're the ones who put these here. Who pushed you in? They were on your list. There's everything and everything on your list. First you were in love with one, so come on, that love can't be taken over by Kostunica, so now let's be in love with each other. Rasim Ljajic is the largest government in this country. You know how many years he's in power? He's been in power for seven full years. Everything can change. He can't be touched. He who only changes appearances, and co-operation, and non-cooperation, and committee, and commission, and ministry, and this, and that. You were not allowed to look him in the eye, let alone move him. Euro-Atlantic reformers, that's... There's no way for these four SRS candidates to vote. Since you must ensure that they pass the emergency at Tadic, you make arrangements. If our people get past that list, Tadic, you'll get off this one. There is only one problem that Serbian citizens need to understand that Vojislav Kostunica is handing over the Constitutional Court to Boris Tadic, and here is playing a fight and will not allegedly support him in the presidential elections. Who else can you fool? It's the same team. When we're on that third item of the agenda, then let's think about what should change in our Rules of Procedure when it takes the National Assembly to reach ten candidates. Should MP groups suggest? When she suggests a parliamentary group, what does she suggest? Loyal, like, someone whose dream is to be the judge of the Constitutional Court and accepts everything, and behind him is the god whom he has proposed, if he passes. You say those judges will be competent, they will only hold the Constitution. It is likely that the Constitutional Court judges will have a smaller format of the Constitution than this. We started in the Assembly with that Constitution that Batic, the great book. Now there's a smaller book going on. When you choose these candidates as Constitutional Court judges, it will be a mini edition, since it is the maxi, midi, and for them it will be the mini edition. Why? To see as little as possible what was written in the Constitution. Or, to be precise, they don't see anything written in the Constitution. In order to implement what? Willingly. Whose? DOS, the democratic bloc, Euro-Atlantic reformers, but not our interests, not the interests of Serbian citizens. As you can see, Bajro, there is neither positive nor negative discrimination. You didn't fit in with their interest and the end of the story. There's no talking about it. And you only give them support.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10316	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladan Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Krasic misread my words. I did not say that the judicial exam is the most important thing in the world, but I find it logical, when it must be held by experts in the municipal court, that it is the fundamental order for the judicial exam to be held by the judges of the Constitutional Court, in particular by the enlargement of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and by the constitutional appeal. There will be a lot of procedures, complicated procedures, the law calls for the application of different procedural laws, so it is amazing that the judges of the Constitutional Court have not passed a judicial exam. I asked the President of the Assembly to return the proposal from the President of the State and to explain the criteria that led it to comply with the provision of the Constitution under which the Constitutional Court judges are elected from the ranks of prominent lawyers. As DHSS MP, I will not vote for this proposal, because I personally know several hundred people who meet that criterion more - a prominent lawyer. A prominent lawyer, in this bar matter, I suppose he should have passed a judicial exam. Also, the Constitution in Article 166 says the Constitutional Court is a separate and independent state body. How can he be independent and independent if the Constitutional Court judges propose political parties in the order of their members? There's no "s" of independence, no "n" of independence. I don't know, Mr. Krasic, I haven't dealt with the family relations of the proposed candidates, but I don't rule out the possibility that there's a conflict of interest here, that there's nepotism. If, and hear this now, one of the most prominent members of the government, this will be interesting, it opens an exhibition hall, so it opens a mall, not one, but also this showroom and this market centre pre-equipped by his wife, or the firm of his wife, with the most expensive furniture. It's already a moral problem; the one that normally likes to open up malls. If one of the prominent members of the government participates in a neighbouring country in the privatisation of some public enterprises, in that neighbouring country, then there is no longer any "m" of morality here, so that this category, which you, Mr Krasic, rightly indicated, is security and morality, which dominates everywhere in the world when judges are elected, who must be moral giants or moral cariatides, does not exist here. Small, cheap, small, party interests of flea market.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10318	The word has been made by MP Lasslo Varga, as deputy head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10319	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, proposed by the draft law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, have proposed one solution, namely the Ministry of Justice, which abolishes one acquired right for national minorities, which is, of course, contrary to Article 20. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. It is the fact that this bill abolishes the right, i.e. the jurisdiction of national councils, to declare a constitutional appeal when it is estimated that human or minority rights are being violated. That's the possibility the national councils had before. Of course, this list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges is just a continuation of this policy that adorns the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to talk, of course, about candidates, about them, about their professional and moral qualities, I just want to talk about some principles on the basis of which this list is drawn up and a little bit from the angle, or perspective of the upcoming presidential elections. Mr. Pastor and Mr. Omeragic were already talking about it, they didn't give a statistical analysis, so I would like to quote a few figures at this time. In the previous presidential elections, the current President of the Republic received 500,000, i.e. half a million votes from the citizens of Vojvodina. I think that if this fact is taken into account, it cannot possibly be right for one candidate who was born in Vojvodina, one who does not live in Vojvodina, and none who is born and lives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, not counting the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, more than a million members of national minorities live in Serbia. There are no members of the national minority on this list. I would like to remind the Republic's president once again that he won the previous presidential election with 275,000 votes, which is indisputable thanks to the votes of members of the national minorities. It's a very bad message, I think it's a disastrously bad message that he on the one hand is thanking the Dukes, and on the other hand, members of the national minorities in this way. Since there are no proposing representatives, I don't think I have any other option, but to address the President of the Assembly with two questions. On the one hand, do you, Mr. President, consider it normal for one country where more than a million members of national minorities live in none of them were worthy to be on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court of Justice of the President of the Republic? On the other hand, do you think it's fair to the two million people of Vojvodina, that there are not a single candidate who is born and who lives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina at this time, and there are even eight candidates who live and work in Belgrade? As a member of the national minority and as a citizen of this country, I am disappointed with this list of candidates. For me, this list of candidates continues practically this hypocritical policy that the DS is implementing, I'm talking, of course, about this policy where the huge proportion is always between words and deeds. There have been words about who is democratic candidate for members of the national minorities, for us a democratic candidate, or democratic president, who has the most important goal of introducing Serbia into the EU as soon as possible. Of course, for an SRS candidate, it's a well-known fact that his primary goal is certainly not that. Unfortunately, however, if we look at this list of candidates proposed by Mr Tadic, we cannot be sure that his goal after this is to join the EU, i.e. to accept European values. Of course, in his statements, he advocates the EU, to enter into various integrations, but according to the way policy is conducted, he certainly does not act that way. The list he suggested was one very good, or very bad proof of my claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10320	Thank you. Mr. Varga, since you asked me a question, I can only say that I hope that in the end, when the judges of the Constitutional Court are finally appointed, there will be a representative of both the minorities and the Vojvodjans, and I think the tendency to do so is quite clear. The People's MP Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the MP Milena Stankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10321	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in my previous presentation, I believe that the constitutional court's constitution is a very important moment in a country that advocates the rule of law, for open society, for the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, for the equality of citizens before the Constitution and the law. We advocate a functional state, a social justice society, where the state will serve citizens, where the state will effectively decide on citizens' rights, everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law and in accordance with the guarantees given by the Constitution to citizens. I believe that there are no objections that we have heard during the debate, that certain candidates are called on the basis of some imaginary stories, with the qualifications that they will be heard, what they are and what they are, I think it is discrimination, as I believe discrimination is the connection of certain candidates with their age, because we are witnessing the fact that all candidates are in accordance with the Constitution proposed to Parliament for the election from the list offered by the President of the Republic of Serbia. None of the candidates have any legal interference with regard to age, as regards the conditions necessary for the exercise of pension rights. Therefore, the candidates can be elected for this function. That legal standard set in the Constitution that it's about candidates who are exceptional lawyers, I think that fact has been proven by the biographies of candidates. It is also not an observation that these candidates do not have a passed judicial exam. First of all, I would like to remind you that all these candidates have conditions to deal with and advocacy, which requires a judicial exam, but they have no obligation in particular to pass a judicial exam because it's about professors of law school, about doctors of science. Therefore, those who question candidates in the judicial exam do not have to have a legal exam. The other thing I want to talk about, it's to remind some of my colleagues from the parliamentary benches that the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial system. I underline, the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial system. The constitution defined the composition of courts, the judicial authority. The Constitution does not mention the Constitutional Court in its head. The Constitutional Court is mentioned in a completely different chapter of the Constitution, so that its position is sui generis defined by the Constitution and therefore is also not required that judges of the Constitutional Court have passed a judicial exam. The Constitutional Court judge must have much wider knowledge, experience and other skills beyond knowledge acquired by passing a judicial examination. That is why candidates are expected to be exceptional lawyers, and the position these candidates currently hold on the social scale tells us that they have passed the legitimacy check. Many of these candidates have already been in front of this congregation. Some were already judges of the Constitutional Court, some were judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, individuals were judges of the State Court of Serbia-Montenegro. So they all had and gained legitimacy from the Serbian Parliament in one of the previous calls. If this state respects continuity and legitimacy, then there is no need to dispute what this congregation has repeatedly declared. I haven't heard any concrete remarks that might disqualify any of the proposed candidates. It says that the president of the Republic of Serbia has offered candidates who meet the Constitution's intended conditions, and it is in the Assembly to choose the best among the candidates offered. I can say that I am relatively and satisfied with geographical origin, so to speak, the candidate, because also on the list that the Assembly will propose to the President of the Republic of Serbia for the appointment of five from the list of ten, and on the list offered by the President of the Republic of Serbia to select five from the list, the Constitutional Court can provide the composition of the Constitutional Court that will meet the regional criteria, and the criteria, according to the Constitution, to necessarily come from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija or the AP Vojvodina, but also from other centres in Serbia. I would remind, above all, of the fulfillment of the conditions and criteria for someone to be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. Since they should be prominent lawyers, they should either come from the ranks of the profession, since the Constitutional Law allows and allows judges of the Constitutional Court to perform a professorship at the university, but I would remind myself that there are not so many cities in Serbia that could be considered university. It is also logical to come to the proposal that one of the candidates be a professor of the Faculty of Law in Nis, someone from another law school, say in Novi Sad, but it is logical to be also a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. It is also logical, because of continuity, but also because there is not enough of such personnel that could be proposed in a larger number for the sake of the election, so it is logical for one of the candidates to be the current judge of the Constitutional Court. Anyone who has not sinned against the Constitution and the law, anyone who has not come under any doubt and has professional qualities, can be proposed as a candidate for the Constitutional Court. I am just surprised that some representatives of the parliamentary clubs in this House have objections to the composition of the proposal, and on the other hand they did not want to participate in proposing candidates. I would remind you that there are 10 candidates on the list proposed by the Assembly to the president of the Republic of Serbia, but the list could have been much wider. Every MP in this House had the opportunity to propose a candidate for a Constitutional Court judge and to declare 10 among all the candidates proposed, that 10 of those who receive the largest number of votes by MPs in the National Assembly be on the list that the National Assembly would propose to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say that there were baseless objections that the president or his representative was obliged here to explain the proposal. Calling the Rules of Procedure, Article 87, is not appropriate. Article 87 says that the proposing, or representative of the legislator or act, will be invited to the session of Parliament. I would point again to the fact that the Constitution wanted to share power between different branches of government. That is why the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court was made between the three branches of the government: one is the parliament that chooses from the list proposed by the president, the other is the president who, as his own executive authority, appoints five of the proposed 10 offered by Parliament, but also has five other candidates to propose and establish the judges of the Cassation Court as the highest judicial authority to be established in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, due to the transition period, the Constitution has left the possibility for the Constitutional Court to be established by two-thirds of the elected judges of the Constitutional Court, so that this election, which will be made by the president from the list offered by the National Assembly and this selection of five candidates that we will make on the basis of a proposal from the President of the Republic of Serbia, allows the Constitutional Court of Serbia to function. The Constitutional Court is a very important institution in the legal system and in the system of government of the Republic of Serbia. It also sublimes a procedure that guarantees that every citizen has the opportunity to address an institution that is competent and under the Constitution is authorised to decide on his rights, to react whenever the right of citizens is compromised, above all, if it is threatened by illegal acts by authorised authorities for their adoption, but also because of the illegal conduct of judicial authorities. We are witnessing the dysfunction of judicial authorities in Serbia, we are witnessing multiple violations of rights, but on the other hand we are witnessing that there are many legal gaps in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that there was no alternative protection of human rights and freedoms which were not provided protection against the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. This is a step forward in democratisation of the political and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, this is a step in the reforms on the protection of standards we have adopted, this is a guarantee that we will implement standards from international law, which we have adopted under the Constitution as a dominant law, with which our right should be harmonised, above all, with regard to standards in the protection of rights and minorities and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, but it also speaks of the compatibility of our legal system with EU law. We need to adopt EU legal system standards anyway, because we want to be an integral part of that system, but we need someone besides parliament, besides the executive authority, besides the judicial authorities, who will further control the application of these standards in real life. I have to point out another segment that makes it important to establish the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We have judicial authorities, they are very often inefficiently deciding on citizens' rights, cases are piling up in Serbia's courts, citizens are mostly dissatisfied with their position as parties in the proceedings before the judiciary and we need to do something to ensure that justice is effective, timely justice and a reasonable trial. I must point out that there are many cases, at least from what I know as a practice in courts in Nis, in front of the authorities in Nis or in front of courts here in Belgrade. There are items, such as the subject of the case: Čoćić Miljak, who has applied for the collapse of an illegal building with four additional floors, and the city administration in Nis does not respond to this. They say -- you're on trial, so when the court decides, we'll make a decision, although the building approval has been annulled, even though it's been three years before the inspection body's request for demolition. Why isn't it collapsing? Because one of the powerful men had good access to the authorities. We also have a case of Jelena Despotovic, who has been in the process of tearing down three steps that bother her to enter her apartment for four to five years, but is not collapsing because she's a colleague from a construction inspection, so she's not going to be a colleague. There is no adequate protection for such non-compliance and for such abuse. The Constitutional Court will detect such problems, according to the citizens' proposal on the basis of a constitutional appeal, and will be resolved on such cases. It will not happen that the case of Marinkovic Draška, who is being tried by one Slovenian company, takes 20 years for the execution to return to work, as an emergency procedure, to wait five years for the municipal court in Nis not to consider itself competent, to resign to the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, which also does not consider itself competent, so it returns this first one, and thus four times the proposal to return to work for a man who has lost his job, has earned the right to return to work, has achieved the right to compensation, cannot achieve continuity in contributions, but is already approaching his pension. It's a matter of timely justice and it's a matter of trial within a reasonable period of time. Should a person be tried for 20 years, meaning half of his working life, in order to exercise his right to regular retirement or retirement? It is a shame that there are cases in the country that someone who is working in a job cannot do so because of the will or trouble of a representative of a judicial office or a representative of an authority of the administration. The state must ensure the work of state authorities so that it is a service of citizens because it is a citizen at the heart of attention. We have to ask ourselves what the state will do for a citizen, not just how many citizens are obliged to the state when it pays taxes, when it has other obligations and morals, and legal and political towards the state, when it has to show its loyalty, and the state does not want to move its finger to ease the situation, which, by the Constitution and the law, has the right to do. I will end this, I think that many of the procedures in Serbia are unfair because there is no such whip legitimately derived from citizens, who ask that state authorities work more efficiently, work better, work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, protect their minority rights and freedoms, civil rights and achieve all those standards that guarantee that in Serbia life is worthy of man, that we are open society and open to all, without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10322	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milena Stankovic, and let the MP Nenad Konstantinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President, Parliament is having a discussion today on a very important topic. We should receive the Constitutional Court after almost a year, and this is why the LDP has made a great effort to actively and with its proposals, which are constructive, participate in the discussion. The previous speakers presented a lot about how devastating it is by the judiciary in Serbia, how important it is that we do not have a procedure in which the Constitutional Court judges are elected and how terrible it is that we have filled such a legal void in one very wrong way, which is a coalition agreement. So we practically now have a situation for political parties to propose to the Constitutional Court judges. It's very important that personnel solutions be good. I wouldn't really go into these people's biographies right now, but the fact that they, as candidates, appeared on a political party proposal, is already speaking enough, i.e. an important enough fact that leads us to doubt how they're going to do their job. By reading the draft law on the Constitutional Court, I saw that one of the reasons for dissuading judges is that they are members of the parties. In fact, the legislator wanted to protect this function, that is, to ensure its independence. Again, on the other hand, we have this situation that they are candidates because political parties have appointed them as candidates. So we will practically have judges who must no longer be members of political parties, yet political parties are behind them. All of us here, since we are political party activists, we know well enough that someone doesn't have to be a member of a party to implement its policy, and perhaps even conduct an indication of its party. What I also noticed and I talked about earlier, and it's very important, is that Article 172. The constitution speaks of the election and the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, but that the Constitution does not say anything about the procedure. Normally, the Constitution is the highest legal act of a state and it is logical that it will not be engaged in the procedure, but then it is necessary that the law be the one to prescribe the procedure. We talked last week about the Constitutional Court bill and it deals with only one member of the Constitutional Court's selection procedure, which is Article 11, which says judges are elected and named in the manner prescribed by the Constitution. Now, aside from the fact that it is very wrong in a legal sense to refer a lower legal act to a higher legal act, it is much more scandalous that the practical law referred to the Constitution, and the Constitution does not say anything about it. So, there's a tending legal gap left, because in the future, if we wanted to avoid such situations, so that we could carry out procedure for selecting the judges of the Constitutional Court, then the law we discussed and which will be voted soon would contain a provision that would clearly prescribe such a procedure that would not endanger the independence of the Constitutional Court judges. The LDP, as one of the main postulates of its programme, has the rule of law and one of the basic conditions for the rule of law to be implemented in one society is independence of the judiciary. From the above, you can clearly see that the independence of the judiciary is very vulnerable in Serbia. Not only that, let's say, the constitution stipulates that the prosecutor is elected by parliament on a proposal from the government. We know who has the majority in parliament, so basically, the government controls the prosecutor. These are all very serious things that show how low the level of rule of law is, that is, how conditions are created that the laws in Serbia are not respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10324	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last November 9th, when the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was declared, given the word given by Vojislav Kostunica, then and unfortunately the current prime minister of the Government of Serbia, we would now have before us a proposal from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the elected president of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I must remind you that on that night, when we passed the Constitutional Law, we Serbian Radicals, as well as the other participants in the agreement on calling presidential elections and their maintenance, received firm assurance from Vojislav Kostunica, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic repeatedly said that he would constantly remind him that the presidential elections would be called and held until 31 May of this year. Time passed, nothing happened. You received letters of warning from Tomislav Nikolic that the Assembly must do its job, that the laws of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution must be voted upon, that someone must give them to the National Assembly, and that the verified mandates are still on February 14th and that it is pointless to pass the time, and that the National Assembly is, as he said, and unfortunately today, the servant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are as some mat that will come and reside ministers from the government, including the President of the Republic, when they are wanted or when they need the Assembly to vote some proposals. Here, we have now come to the situation that today we have proposals for the Constitutional Court by Boris Tadic, whom he referred to the Assembly on June 14th, and today we are discussing them, although it is quite obvious that in a few months we will have a new elected president of Serbia and that it will not be Boris Tadic, but rather the Serbian Radical Tomislav Nikolic, and that we will come into the situation that politically, because such and references are the instrumentalised people -- judges of the Constitutional Court, proposed by the President of the Republic, are sitting in an institution that has its important place, according to Article 166. The Constitution. For her, Mr Krasic said nicely, and I talked about it on Friday, that in the judicial system of power, if we see the court branch as one of the three that should be independent, that a fourth degree of the judiciary is the possibility now, according to the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, every citizen before the Constitutional Court is looking for an assessment of constitutionality, legality, the protection of his rights, that he does not have to go to Strasbourg, that he does not have to exercise his right in the white world, but only if the judges of that court are professional, high-moral, competent persons who are not subject to any political influence and who do not have criminal and other raps from his past. The proposals Boris Tadic gave us are just different. We Serbian radicals, as you well know, have never been afraid to tell the truth. That's the only thing we've ever done. We're not running away from ad personam talking about people we have undeniable evidence that they're involved in crime, in corruption, that they're honorable and not moral, because that's our obligation. We, as MPs who are now required in advance for the unconstitutional Constitutional Court to protect its integrity, must say everything we know from the assembly booth. What kind of people would we be, what conscience would we be if we kept quiet about who the tycoons or other clans were affecting Boris Tadic, who was coming to the presidency building on Andric's wreath and bringing him candidates for certain people. You can see them, and they were beautifully graduated in the first and second categories of colleagues Krasic, when they gave consent. On this basis, you can see who the VIP candidates are, and who the others are, because those he certainly counts on, and this one for whom he has been hearty for months, this incriminating Dragisa Slepcevic, the President of the Constitutional Court, as well as other candidates, who have already accepted the candidacy on 8 June, called for Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, so there were heartfelt statements among the individuals, so God knows how they thank Boris Tadic at first, and then they say they accept the candidacy for the Constitutional Court judge. Who are these people? What stands out of these biographies that are written so pompously and so enchantingly that you thought you'd overshadow us with some monographs and professional papers that each assistant intern or professor in college, that I'm not talking about regular and extraordinary professors, publications, that they would work in the scientific field at all. Where are the other criteria we're trying to point out when we're establishing the Constitutional Court? These are, first of all, moral similarities, not political, DS, DSS and G17, as you're used to. You remember, Mr. Ristic, that one day you came here as a top advocate of DOS justice reform after the five-October mob coup, so you proposed to us a man who served as director of some rubber industry around Surdulica, so he was elected judge of the municipal court, so it was a few months ago, so he was elected president of the municipal court. So you didn't plant Boris Tadic, or he needed a guardian, and it wasn't this Krstic and Saper, these losers who sing all day long, but someone who would tell him who they were, or that they were nice to reprove you, and that they told you from the DS that he was smart and that he had a responsibility, as there is no, obviously, that people like this can't even be candidates for a member of the council of the local community anymore, that you get rid of them completely, and that you say, for God, who, who can do this to Dragoša Slepčević to propose to me as a judge of the Constitutional Court, and even for the President of the Constitutional Court, which I have been behind for several months, as well as other DS leaders. Since I do not have much time, because other Serbian radicals will speak, I will focus only on this Dragiš Slepčević. So Dragisa Slepcevic, who, together in tandem with Jovana Prijic, has come to Belgrade for the evil of everyone known in the Serbian judiciary. His biography starts from the early days, as it would say, and works, through the staffing of the July organisation, because he was a member of JUL and a candidate and, conditionally speaking, political parties at the time, to become president of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin, and later came to Belgrade and was elected by the Supreme Court judge. That's where he starts his business. He took advantage of this progress in the area of justice, which JUL provided for him, and you later, as a dossier, accepted it after the five-octobaric coup, for many situations and for many irregularities in which and how he participated. What I have in front of me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is just a piece of the File of Blindevic. It's just a few criminal charges against him, not to mention numerous newspaper inscriptions and professional public appeals. Because if for you it is a prominent Belgrade lawyer or some other lawyer, with a reference of an expert man to do this job, the professional public, then listen to what people say and how much they know about this not candidate who couldn't possibly, at any rate, find himself here, but everyone would be ashamed to propose a man like this to the Constitutional Court. Mr. Slepčević acted in a tandem with other persons whose authority made it possible. First of all, in July and later on, he is also known for taking one, for business and for manipulating such unholy people, an interesting area in the area of law, which is a commercial, or economic right, because as President of the Trade Court from Zrenjanin he came, as I said, to judge the Supreme Court. Not only that, he and his wife had a very nice home to the deputy republican public prosecutor. She would apply for the protection of legality in disputes with well-being companies, and Dragisa Slepcevic, in agreement with his second one, would use it better as president of the council and would adopt those requirements. He's, by the way, famous among his fellow judges for coming to work in his classy style in the jeep, I guess that's how he tries to demonstrate his power and influence in business, just doesn't do the job he's supposed to do under the law. Criminal charges filed by applicants against him and others, such as, among others, this unfortunate Jesic, the president of the Indji municipality, Mladjan Dinkic and others, the director of the company Vodavod and the sewerage from Indija, did not touch him at all. He did amazing things. After 10 years, here's an example for you, the conduct of a court dispute before the competent courts, primarily municipal and then countyal, and the verdict that is binding on the Supreme Court of Serbia, Dragisa Slepčević, had his, above all, political influence, and the system of manipulation and in connection with the leading Serbian tycoons, affected the fact that after 10 years of running a dispute, the court appeared unsuspecting. Where's that? I understand that these villains in The Hague are now seeking at this moment, after such brilliant testimony, both in historical and political terms, the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, or his opening words, which is proud of every citizen of Serbia who cares about the truth, that they would most like to announce to the incompetent for the case of Seselj and say, we have nothing to do with it, somehow trying to free ourselves, difficult for us when he has managed to tear us apart for these four hours of opening words, and what is yet to wait for us in the coming months. What you will see, and anyone who deals with legal science and, above all, every citizen who knows that the truth is on the side of Dr Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian people. But to report to an unsuspecting court before which such an exact dispute is being held for the apparent abuse, for a machination worth a million euros, and to be involved in this by Slepcevic, this then leads us to the path of crime and corruption, and such a man suggests Tadic to be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. What is my reliable information is that Dragisa Slepčević's personal recommendation, or consent, was brought to the cabinet at Andric's wedding by Dusan Petrovic, which means that the minister of justice is directly involved in this way of proposing. So, these are not the candidates of Boris Tadic, and they are DS candidates, as soon as the deputy president of the party walks into the president's office and tells him, here he is, and he is therefore one month after his election, and it is illegal, because he voted for himself, Dusan Petrovic comes to Tadic's cabinet and suggests such a man to judge the Constitutional Court. Of that, of course, you know a lot, too, colleague Ristic, as well as other DS colleagues. Why do you keep your mouth shut or hope or in this extraction from the drum, which will happen in a few days, you count, it will not pass. We wanted, since he's prone to these kinds of machinations and he can finish any job, he would be useful to us to work for our cause, to promote him even for the President of the Constitutional Court. Now, as the public is so upset, since we are now going to expose the case of Slepcevic, as did the prominent Belgrade lawyers and these people from Belgrade's Road-engineering, who were damaged by a million euros in a lawsuit led by the competent courts, only because it was personally in their own way and trying to get justice stopped by Judge Slepčević, you have to file accounts, because you did not warn the president of your party and the president of the Republic that these people do not deserve attention, except that they are being dealt with by the competent state authorities because of the numerous abuses they have committed. What is important, and this is also the future assembly of the Assembly and after the next parliamentary elections, which will happen very quickly, immediately after holding the Presidential, and it is best that we have elections at all levels and that this incompetent and obviously commercial coalition of transgenders, as Dragisa Slepčević, as used by Dragisa Slepčević, as soon as it breaks down and falls apart, will happen that the Constitutional Court will obviously have incompetent people, next to Slepčević, if you happen to choose him, and I warn you not to do so, because it would be a disaster and it would have been a disaster already today and before the elections, if you have such an intention, has failed at the Constitutional Court. Then why do we need the law? What the Constitutional Court will do to us, with all these others, with this second person who is DOS and who is a disgrace to both law school and legal science, are now bad candidates. But if you choose someone who's up to his stomach involved in crime and corruption as judge of the Constitutional Court, then you better tell me, we're not capable of this, we can't do this, he's going to exist in that brittle assembly, he's going to have ten members of his own. How they will decide and by whose order, it is seen from the Constitutional Court Bill that you wrote, because Dragisa Slepčević and all DS and Boris Tadic candidates will behave exactly as you wrote in Article 93. Constitutional law. If it happens, hypothetically, to establish the Constitutional Court quickly, with such staff by Dulic, or all the divided spheres of interest from this coalition and Boris Tadic, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is its right, asks the Constitutional Court to assess the work of Boris Tadic, while for the next few months it is on the function of the President of the Republic, when such a request comes as the National Assembly, because you have written such a law, and you will obviously adopt it, because we do not have the response of Petrovic, who proposed Slepčević and the rest of Boris Tadic, we come to a standstill as the National Assembly, that judges of the Constitutional Court, such as the Slepčević and others, say, "e, we must examine whether you, the Members of the People's Parliament, have had the right to do so, which includes your argument at all, and whether we will enter into the opposition of the Republic. For that, there will be no need at the time when Tomislav Nikolic is elected by citizens to the presidency. But, now, according to the behaviour of Boris Tadic, and that we have also had honorable judges in the Constitutional Court, and that there would be a lot of work for them, and that there would be a lot of opportunities by the MPs and a reason to submit a motion to impeach such a president of the Republic, which gives us suggestions for which we not only have the strictest words of criticism, but we think that they are really a disgrace to every MP, that such biographies and such people even come into the situation that their names and all the presses in the Office of the National Assembly were made. We will vote against and we will continue, because this is only one part of what the Blindcevic Dynasty was doing, to speak as long as this and the next point of the agenda lasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10326	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10327	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens, the Democratic Party will certainly vote for these proposals, but a political debate opens here instead of an expert debate. There was no day, there was no hour, there was no month in this assembly, in this building that we didn't hear moaning, crying, whining, moving why Serbia doesn't have a Constitutional Court. Now, at a time when Serbia gets so much needed and necessary constitutional court, we now have one political debate whether or not this court is necessary, we have one debate on whether or not this court belongs to this or that branch of government, we have even an inaccurate interpretation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is very precise and clearly written. Some even complain about the format of the Constitution. You know, I can also make a constitution in the form of a congregation door, for those who can't read it. At my place in Krusevec, they say, "Whoever drowns in a smaller bar does not need a bigger sea." The regulation of the government, the fifth part of the Constitution, clearly defines all systems of government, all levers of power, but in Article 179 of this same constitution, in the same small format that bothers some, it is clearly said that the Constitutional Court makes 15 judges, who are elected and named for nine years. Five Constitutional Court judges are elected by the National Assembly, five appointed by the President of the Republic, and five by the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. I read about those who didn't understand. Then he says the National Assembly elects five Constitutional Court judges among the 10 candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. I'm gonna stop here because this is where the first problem started. One of the previous speakers said -- well, Boris Tadic has proposed 10 candidates, and the DS is not behind it. You know, in Article 172. The constitution does not say that the presidents of the political parties propose the judges of the Constitutional Court, because that right belongs to the presidents of political parties, I would also expect the SRS to have its 10 candidates, that the DSS and their presidents, but Boris Tadic is not only the president of the DS, he is the legitimately elected president of Serbia, who has gained confidence in the elections and his legitimate right is to propose, as president of Serbia, not DS, 10 candidates, of which five of which of course will elect the Serbian Parliament. In the opposition, it's the hardest of the first 40 years, and then you'll get used to it, it's not so hard, but it's a good opposition act, because then in the opposition, you get one of the ex-post minds that you didn't have when you were in power, and then very easily, when you're in opposition, you accept one heavy burden of condemning others, and you easily reject one easy burden of self-judgment. I'm not going to state here the biographies of those Constitutional Court judges who were in power, that is, acting as Judges of the Constitutional Court at a time when you were in power, and I'm not going to name the biographies of ministers and what they were doing before they moved to the ministerial chair, but I want to comment on a few things about the writing of tabloids, party texts, and even some more serious daily newspapers. Of course, some are frightened by the formation of the Constitutional Court and the election of the Constitutional Court judges, and of course that a negative campaign has started against those people who will take that place, to get it deserved in the Serbian Assembly after the vote, and of course some do not answer that the Constitutional Court is forming in Serbia, because the state of chaos, the state of general collapse of all the government systems is responding to some. I do not wish to enter into a professional debate, Mr Bosko Ristic and my predecessors from the DS and previous days had a very good expert discussion on the subject of the Constitutional Court, but here we have witnessed a debate on the national composition of this Constitutional Court, and who makes and makes and whether or not the representatives of national minorities sit there. The DS believes that representatives of the national minorities, Boris Tadic, supported not because they expect to get something, and they got it from the DS, see only the composition of the DS parliamentary club – there are representatives of all national minorities. Look at the government of the Republic of Serbia. Isn't Rasim Ljajic the man proposed by DS, as far as I know he is Bosnjak and we national minorities don't treat as a trading electoral body to be traded with. We offer national minorities the hand of co-operation that leads them the way of the European Union. We offer them safety, security, we offer them what national minorities want and why they vote for us. When we trade and want to trade, then we'll form a trading company, and we'll deal with the trade. Of course, and as we will take care of our relationship with national minorities, respect them, they will have national minorities as they have in their MP club DS their place, and right away to say that other parliamentary groups have representatives of national minorities, but it is inappropriate to discuss this moment and to discuss this topic. I am very grateful to the representatives of all national minorities who vote for Mr Boris Tadic. I respect them very much, I am very pleased to vote for Mr Boris Tadic. I understand their struggle to position themselves in their electoral body. I think that through the proposal of the National Minority Assembly they will also be contained in the proposal for the Constitutional Court judges and I think it is very good to turn this topic and this debate into a professional and not political direction. Because the existence of the Constitutional Court, or its absence so far, may have been a political issue, but to turn it in one professional direction and not to discuss who has a judicial exam or does not. I wouldn't be surprised if some of us, who here are spilling our minds that the Constitutional Court judges as professors of law should have a judicial exam, don't ask how Slobodan Jovanovic came to a 5,000-dollar bill and didn't have a judicial exam. We can hear various other theories and topics here, but I think the topic here is quite different, that the topic here is the Constitutional Court, that the topic here is above all whether Mr. Boris Tadic had the right to propose or not. Yes, that right gave him the Constitution and I don't think there's any misunderstanding anymore. Here's Mr. Moma Markovic agrees with my opinion, thank you. So, I am pleased that we have practically one clearly defined position here that Mr. Boris Tadic, according to his constitutional powers, has proposed professional people for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we have the fear of those who fear the functioning of the Constitutional Court, who will try to make this institution, before it is ensnared, but in this way and such discussions discredit. I call on MPs to vote for this and I assure the citizens of Serbia that it is very important and very important that the Constitutional Court works, because it is one of the foundations on which all democratically decorated states rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10328	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10329	Mr. Grouchy, I greatly appreciate myself, so I demand it from others. Of course this is business. It has nothing to do with replication. It is article 136, and I have to draw your attention to everything that is done in the National Assembly, that is to say, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the procedure for the adoption of the laws. This is about making one decision in Articles 156 or 161, it doesn't matter. We need a quality explanation. We really need a quality explanation, because I have heard there are MPs who dispute the quality of the proposed candidates and there are MPs who challenge the right of these critics. We in the debate today need to hear what the quality of these candidates is. I know it's hard for those who stand behind or in front of Boris Tadic, if they dare in front, why don't they use some argument, say something, when they say -- that judge is good, that professor is good. This is where we listen to fairy tales. Bosko Ristic comes out and criticises something. I didn't check it out, he's probably right about these constructions, but because of his sister, one building couldn't get a used permit for a year and a half because the wall was near the window of her house and now he's coming out and giving us lectures here. Have him clean up in his house for a while. Give it to you from DS, when this topic is, say - Marija Draškiæ is the best because of: one, two, three, four, five. Then people show up with computers, who repeat the first class twice, and they're giving us a lecture now -- we're afraid of someone. Who are we afraid of? Boris of the Landless? We're just indicating what his suggestions are, what's the background of those proposals. Tell me if you have any word of support for these candidates, come out and say they're the best, reference 1, reference 2, reference 3, esteemed, respected, etc. He's so respected that the entire Supreme Court changes his tire when his tire breaks on the jeep. And I would have respected that criterion if you'd said so. And not here, fairy tales, one thought, another story, the third one works. He is not afraid of the SRS, but we are just telling you, the public of Serbia, who are the candidates proposed by Boris Tadic, why he chose them. If you have the opposite opinion, say everything in superlatives, not here to tell us some fairy tales, so some of us here are giving lectures, which were repeated in the first grade of elementary school, so they have to count here for two days. Don't do that. Come out, support your president. Take care of how you support him, where you support him. Support him around these candidates, but come out and say it clearly. I just realized -- better anything than nothing, you asked for a Constitutional Court, you have a Constitutional Court. (President: I thank the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Just two seconds, Mr. Gristle. We're not looking for one, we're sorry for the quality of it, and you're offering us a blank.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10330	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Laslo Varga and then by MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10331	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I've been misread. In the afternoon debate, members of the national minorities, for a reason, spoke of the fact that there are no members of the national minorities on the list of Mr Tadic. This means that out of millions of people, as surely as there are national minorities in Serbia, none of them were worthy to be on this list. I think it's... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: It turns out so. It turns out that's right, thank you. I think, if not otherwise, it is an insult to members of the national minorities. It is especially an insult to claim that we here in the Assembly act as if this choice by the Constitutional Court would be a trade. The question has been asked - why do national minorities vote for Mr Tadic, or why did they vote for him? Of course, they voted for him because they expected him to solve their problems, which he did not in practice, unfortunately, or did not, and on the other hand they voted for him because they thought he would respect them. This list of candidates certainly does not mean respect for members of national minorities, but rather the opposite. This means that he expects votes from members of the national minorities, and when there are some concrete questions, if he could somehow return those votes, or in some way thank him, he does exactly the opposite. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10332	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10333	I was interrupted, so I have to continue to explain why the candidate for the parliamentary group of minorities Zejnapa Kavrajic, Judge of the District Court in Novi Pazar, should be elected. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: He was wrong. That's the third point. I'd like you to let me say it. What you missed here, saying what happened 20 years ago, 30 years ago, what's going on in The Hague, has nothing to do with the agenda, and I never interrupt you. So, hold on a second. Why should she be chosen? Just because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says minorities should be included in all institutions. This is a very important institution for our country's legal system, for the legal order of our country, for the legal security of citizens. I'm talking about why it comes from a place where every day in the paper, in the media, we can read that the security situation is very bad, where basic human rights of different categories of population are being violated. One Constitutional Court judge would be extremely important to be from Novi Pazar, from the Sandzak region, so that he can engage in solving all these problems. As far as representation is concerned, there are no Bosniaks in the Supreme Court, and there are no Bosniaks within the prosecution's summit. I would not like to list all the institutions of the judicial system, there are no Bosniaks at the highest level. We don't think it's good for the image of our country, it's not a good message to the Bosniaks in this country. That's why this candidate, I'm not saying candidate of any party. We had a meeting with the president of the assembly and the president of the assembly at the meeting informed all the heads of parliament that they had the right to propose candidates who meet the legal requirements to be elected Judges of the Constitutional Court. Just today, in Evening News, you can see a picture of New Market citizens having to perform religious rituals on the street. If we had a Constitutional Court, if other institutions and other bodies in the judicial system worked a little better, this couldn't have happened. I mentioned, it happens that in one school institution, five or six students who are 14-15 years old are expelled, with the director's explanation that they cannot be provided with safety at school and have to be kicked out of school. So I appeal to all the state authorities that in the XXI century this image of the New Pazar does not go to the world because of the international community, because of all of us, that the religious ritual of people must, a few hundred people, be done in front of the mosque, and the reason is to reconstruct the mosque. If the state authorities don't react, hundreds of other mosques will be reconstructed. Therefore, we appeal that as soon as possible, the citizens of Novi Pazar are allowed to perform their ritual where it is governed by the law and the Constitution and that children return to the medres, from which they are unlawfully expelled, even the director says in his statement that he had to drive them out of school because he cannot provide them with security... (President: I thank the People's MP Omeragic. It's not a security academy. Medress is not a place to determine whether someone is safe or not. They have organs, legally established, that care about the safety of citizens, including these children. That is why we urge that as soon as possible the citizens of Novi Pazar get into their religious institutions and that these children return urgently. For these children, I end up very important because you need to know that this school is funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia in order for the children to be expelled. That's why we're appealing to the authorities to return these children urgently, because the one using the budget can't carry out the will and the children of 14-15 can't be kicked out of school.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10334	I thank Mr. Omeragic. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10335	I just have to say that the MPs of the Sandzak List Coalition, if something is not done, are really thinking about whether to continue working in this House, because in the 21st century it really is, and here is Mr. Sarovic saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10336	I thank Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10337	Just let me say it. It is a shame that children are kicked out of school in the 21st century and I appeal once again to allow the immediate opening of all religious objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10338	Sure thing, Biro. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Natasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10339	Mr. Omeragic, you're absolutely right. It is a shame, but you have a way to solve it. I really don't know why you attacked a man when he's right, you DS listen to his appeal. So, Mr. Omeragic, an extraordinary cabinet session is scheduled and the budget is adopted, right? You attend every cabinet session, you're the only MP with exclusive status. You're an MP, and you're also some kind of minister. Or perhaps a correspondent, according to counterpart Sarovic. You now have a nice session of the government, you have time, you're not that many people or you're not allowed to have a say there, you're only from a pay phone. Well, fine for the hand of the minister of police, the minister of religion, of this Naumov, so you tell Kostunica everything in the mustache and get the job done. Not to us that you're complaining and you missed the agenda point. It's wrong of you to talk about what's important to the citizens of Serbia and say, you're talking about The Hague there. If I didn't talk about it, Mr. Omeragic, I wouldn't have a country future, nor children who should live here, nor would I have a chance for any future in this relationship of power and in this world to be defended in such a way by Professor Vojislav Seselj. Because I believe you've been following it, just like millions of citizens. I believe that you've been following it with attention, and on two occasions, it's clear to you now who's fighting for national minorities, who's protecting you everywhere and in every place and why you should vote for the SRS in the future. To get rid of those who only lie to you at the time of the election campaign, and then come and say, no candidate for the Constitutional Court, which is one, not two, which is three candidates. But not Boris Tadic, not Kostunica. They're still causing you problems everywhere and in every place and they're making it impossible for children, who are members of your religious national minority and ethnic group, to express their free will. Here you go in one hour at the cabinet meeting and tell them that you are threatened, that they do not listen to you, that no one protects you, and only when you select such judges of the Constitutional Court, because so far, many people have had to, since we did not have the Constitutional Court, to seek justice in Strasbourg and to complain to various international organisations, only then, Mr. Omeragic, will you have no protection. Therefore, the path is very simple for you, but be grateful for everything you have already mentioned, and that was the basis for which I have come forward, which is for you today, both for the Serbian people and for all the national minorities in The Hague, and what Professor Vojislav Seselj, the president of our party will do in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10340	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word has finally come from the People's Messenger... (Bajram Omeragic, from the site: Replica. )......................................................................................................... There's no replica. Hold on. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Wait, and you'll get your word after No Sarovic. Biro, sit in the front row seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10341	Since we don't already have an MP, ladies and gentlemen, here he may be as an authorised representative and Mr. Bajro Omeragic. I have to repeat this, I gave Mr. Bajram Omeragic and from my place of support while he was speaking and I will repeat, so said Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, and I say once again: you are right, Mr. Omeragic, it is a shame what is happening in the rat area, it is a shame that Boris Tadic has deceived you once again and that you have been deceived by Vojislav Kostunica. But you must admit that part of that responsibility is borne by you. They're not people you don't know politically, they're not people you've been working with for the first time. Here, and now Mrs. Hope Kolundji tells you what to say when you come out on the line. Listen, Mr. Bajro Omeragic, and the advice of those of us who have proved our actions that we are much more well-intentioned towards you. Change the final coalition partners. You have not supported Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic for just the past seven years, you have done so before. Then you say, when it comes to getting those votes back in some way and fulfilling their promises, they skip you. Mr. Laslo Varga, who said, is right, I wrote, that Boris Tadic does not respect minorities, that he expects votes, but that later, when the time comes to thank them in some way, he bypasses them. So Mr. Laszlo Varga is right. That's a shame. This shows that Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica have not only deceived Bosniaks, they have also deceived members of the Hungarian national minority and all others. So that's a lesson for the next election, when you're thinking about who you're going to support again, put your finger on your forehead and say, should we support those who've fooled us five or six times and who'll fool us safely again, or should we now support someone else? So, the great responsibility of Mr. and Bajro Omeragic and Laszlo Varga is borne by you, because it was your choice too, and then the members of the national minorities you belong to have accepted that choice and supported obviously the wrong people. We've heard a lot of debates here that professionally, unprofessionally, some have even fenced themselves and said they won't get into professional debates. We heard, and I think it's wrong, though, that the opposition was moving, moaning and demanding that the Constitutional Court be finally formed. We of course did not move, nor complained, we asked that the Constitutional Court be formed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And they are not, according to Bosko Ristic, some European values that we must accept. Serbia didn't come yesterday. The Constitutional Court in Serbia is not some innovation we accept from the EU. The Constitutional Court has been standard for years and decades in Serbia, and has been standard until the five-eyed revolution. If you are such legalists and answer us, and that is the fact - why have we not had longer than we have had the Constitutional Court since 2000? Because that's how it suits you. It suits you to do whatever comes to mind without having a simple organ that can react. What's even worse is that the Constitutional Court was also at a time when there was a political court. And the decisions he made were purely political. He's got a lot of decisions like that. The way he worked, the time when certain cases were taken in the Constitutional Court's work, also said it was politically motivated. You will remember the Law of Help to the families of the Hague indictees. During the night, the Constitutional Court made a decision, although it had no right, because the Constitutional Court can only react to an individual act. So they had no right to react in this way, but they reacted, they made a temporary measure and then never – and here it was four years after that temporary measure that implies urgency, the Constitutional Court found that urgency exists and made a temporary measure – and never again debated the law, never made a final decision. You had to first convince the MPs of the SRS that this court that you're forming now will not be political, but that it will be the Constitutional Court and that it will judge neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles. When we look at the biographies of candidates you have proposed, when we look at criminal charges that exist against some, it's a huge number of criminal charges, then we rightly wonder if this Constitutional Court will be like the one that has occasionally and temporarily existed and worked at those short intervals in the last seven years. So it's clear that this is about political trade. The ruling coalition's representatives openly acknowledged that the parties have proposed to the candidates in proportion to their size. Those who are not satisfied with the division and part of the cake they have received are now going out for this pay phone and criticising the way they share. But indeed, there are many things that show that it was an act that was completely past the Constitution, beyond the law, as it went. And that's what this writer that National Assembly President Oliver Dulic sent us on November 8th tells us about, and it is the subject of the correction of the proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. This is where Oliver Dulic corrects the biographical data, names and last names of some of the people he has proposed for the judges of the Constitutional Court and there is the correlation and identity between Oliver Dulic and The Hague. So, as the Hague court first presses charges, and then collects evidence and witnesses, so Oliver Dulic first proposes candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, and then subsequently checks whether they have some professional quality, checks exactly what they are called, when they graduated, whether they graduated and everything else. It is clear that this kind of election by the Constitutional Court judges can't do any good, and it is clear that this Constitutional Court will not react in obvious violations of law and it is clear that you need this so that you don't have elections in Belgrade, so that you can choose a candidate for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, so that you can invent the post v.d. Deputy mayor of Belgrade, so that you can print out ballots with only one candidate before the session, although it clearly states in the Rules of Procedure what is the way of the proposal and that each committee group can propose, if there are sufficient number of committees. But you say -- here, professional services didn't waste time, but in case there were no more candidates, ballots were printed in advance. That's the real reason why you don't need a Constitutional Court. The real reason why you don't need a Constitutional Court is the kidnapping plan you're planning to make in Greece. I ask a parliamentary question -- on the basis of which a member of the Constitution, the law, any act, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government sent this, therefore, this paper, because I don't know what it is, whether this is a love letter, because this is not a conclusion, not an opinion, is not a decision. Minister Milan Markovic is not called on by any member of the law and does not say what this is, but says - the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have addressed Stanislav Jastshenski, a committee member in SO Grocka, in view of the existence of the legal capacity to withdraw the parliamentary mandate and the possible authority of the president of the municipality in this matter. He spoke to the existence of a legal obligation. So I'm asking Milan Markovic's reply, when the gentleman in question addressed it, we're asking him to send us this memo, a photocopy of that memo, and see what he's looking for. So that the gentleman, and that is also another question, will Milan Markovic answer us on the basis of which authority he writes such love letters, which is a member of the Constitution, a member of the law which empowers him to interfere in the work of local self-government? So there are numerous examples of why you won't take the Constitutional Court. I would ask, given the fact that the situation in courts is catastrophic, and Mr. Dusan Petrovic to answer me how it is possible that in Ruma, a strike is under way, but how is it possible that members of the judicial guard are preventing citizens from entering the court building? One is a strike, one is that they eventually won't work and that's completely justified. Let's see who authorized someone to stop the citizens from even entering the courthouse? We heard from Mr. Bosko Ristic that he is pleased, quote, "the geographical origin of the candidates". If it were wine, cheese, if it were domestic animals, which they have because of the geographical origin of a specific quality, I would understand that, but when you talk about the judges of the Constitutional Court, then it is completely inappropriate to say that someone is satisfied or not satisfied with geographical origin. You had to take care of the quality of the candidates, of their careers so far, of professional abilities, not of geographical origin. We also heard that it is necessary for transition to choose the Constitutional Court. What does that have to do with transition? I will read you the provision of Article 9(1). The constitutional law, which says - the election, or appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, will be carried out by the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly at the latest. That's over. The first thing when you referred to this proposal, the first thing that Boris Tadic had to say was why he broke the Constitution, why he broke the constitutional law and why he failed to fulfil his obligation and proposed to the National Assembly 10 candidates, of which we would then be elected five for judges of the Constitutional Court. That's what Boris Tadic ignored. Therefore, Article 9(4) states - the law governing the Constitutional Court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions, the National Assembly will take the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court at the session. This is another obligation that you ignored. Those who call for the Strasbourg Court must know one thing, no one can address the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg before exhausting all possibilities in front of domestic courts, and this includes addressing the Constitutional Court. So the fact that there is no Constitutional Court is not relevant. Whoever addresses the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, they say, did you take advantage of all the possibilities in your country, is one of them addressing the Constitutional Court. And you say -- but we don't have it; it exists on paper, but not in practice, the Constitutional Court. And they say -- we're sorry, you're complaining next time, and thanks to DOS, there was no Constitutional Court, so you had no one to turn to to protect your rights. A number of negative human rights violations have been cited by Mr. Bosko Ristic. I would understand that if he were an opposition, but you gentlemen are in power. You can't wash your hands and say, we don't know anything about it, Boris Tadic is a double personality, he submitted this proposal as president of Serbia, not as president of the DS. He wasn't even allowed to serve as president of the DS. So, the moment he was elected president of Serbia, unfortunately, should have frozen or resigned to this post he had, the party. However, it is obvious that you accept one principle when you are in opposition and when you fight for a particular place, and you accept and appreciate other principles when you finally reach power. And all of you who supported Boris Tadic, remember that after a few days of the election he said - I was chosen by the people. The first was -- support me, you must support me, parties that do not support Boris Tadic are not democratic parties and everything else. After a few days, he said - you don't care anymore, I've been chosen by the people. He cheated on him and Bajra, and many others, but you'll get a chance to let him cheat on you again soon, but hopefully this time it won't be like that. In light of the alleged political debate - whether or not the Constitutional Court is needed, I am surprised that DS representatives are opening such a debate and I do not know how it is possible to discuss anything that has been defined by the Constitution at all. And, at the very least, the very idea that there is no Constitutional Court, I really don't know how to even express myself on whether it's monstrous, is it worse than that, but I hope you don't think it'll come to your senses that you're doing anything like that in the next period. We've also heard that it's good to be in opposition and that the opposition makes sense. It can be accepted that it is, but it is a shame that some who deal in politics have never been in opposition, but have been dealing with politics as a government since the start of politics, and then they have not had the possibility of gaining that mind, which is now being broken into the heads of Serbian citizens. It's obvious, when we look at the motions of the Constitutional Court judges, there's a huge impact of NGOs. It is obvious that a large number of candidates have been through various trainings, whether through the Open Society Fund, through SOROŠ, some have been to Budapest, some have been in America, some in Germany, but I think it will only lead to a large number of problems again, and that when these people and when they, if God forbid, will be judges of the Constitutional Court, they will, of course, have a responsibility to those who trained them, and not to the citizens of Serbia. I've spent a lot of time, but I have to say a few more words about the candidate for Constitutional Court President Boris Tadic proposed, it's about Dragisa Slepčević, and this is only part of the newspaper articles and criminal charges that speak of the past work of this gentleman. Apparently, he has more criminal charges than the case at work. As the verdict is passed, as the case may be, the affair in the newspaper is opened and criminal charges against this gentleman are followed. Is it possible that Boris Tadic will insist until the end that this man be, whether the President of the Constitutional Court or just a member, I don't know, but we will also take advantage of the opportunity for the citizens of Serbia to get to know more closely about all the criminal affairs in which this gentleman is involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10342	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10343	Here, I listened to Mr. Krasic, a member of the SRS. He's been commenting on some candidates, and since you're criticizing that someone has missed someone from minority candidates, you have a great chance, a day to vote, and you support minority representatives. Therefore, as you advocate, you have a great opportunity to do so at the vote and to send a real message to the citizens of Serbia and to the representatives of minorities. I heard Mr Krasic commenting on a number of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, quoting something from their biography, reminding us who he was working where he worked so far, whether he was fit to be judge of the Constitutional Court or not. I just said that a candidate from the New Market should be elected, and that's why I call on all MPs to support it, because it's good for this country. Never before have MPs of the Sandzak List Coalition, take a stenogram and see when MPs of other parliamentary groups took a word, we have footage, we have stenograms, we can see who has always taken a newspaper, the case from Sopota, the case from Kruševac, from the municipal court, someone has not been paid for something, electricity has not been introduced there, and never has the Coalition of the Sandzak List made problems, they have rules of the Rules of Procedure, you use it and we have never challenged it so far. So I see no reason to react so much to the fact that, on the day when it comes to candidates for the Constitutional Court, we mentioned a candidate for the minority list. I don't think that's contrary to today's subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10344	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Esad Djudjevic, the vice president of the Assembly, and then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10345	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I spoke here on Friday about a very difficult topic, events happening in Novi Pazar, I asked Minister Jocic and Resort Minister Naumov, Minister of Faith, to intervene because of the situation in Novi Pazar. I must tell my colleague Todorovic that we did not ask for protection from neither SRS, we did not ask for protection from any party, we asked for protection from the state and its authorities, and now I repeat it again, that it is very important to allow the citizens of Novi Pazar to perform their religious rituals in accordance with the Law Constitution, and that it is important that Resolute Minister Naumov return the children, i.e. students of Medresa High School in Novi Pazar. We're looking for these two things. I must say here from this pay phone that I and my colleague Omeragic, MPs of the Sandzak List, will be forced to withdraw from the work of this Parliament unless its authorities do something and make it possible for the public order and peace in Novi Pazar and to enjoy, the consumption of all rights of civil, religious and other citizens, in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10346	The word is from Ambassador Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10347	Article 103 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and, I would say, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because since this morning we have been present with one truly cynical address from the Members of the Sandzak List who have missed the whole agenda point, I would say on purpose. Namely, they have one candidate for the Constitutional Court, which we wanted to talk about in the third item of the agenda and we will talk about, but what we are hearing from both of the Sandzak MPs now is an attempt to obstruct the work of this parliament and is an attempt to blackmail the state authorities, especially here I think of President Tadic, who doesn't deserve anything. So people who have most directly generated events in the Islamic community, people who have made a parallel Islamic community, abuse this speaker by appealing to state authorities to allow believers to, as they say, consume religious rights and, as far as I know, consume wines etc. There is no consumption of religious rights in Islam. They defiled Islam and those people they sent there on the street, and paid them to bow in the street, most directly defiled Islam. They abuse this pay phone, we've never done it from the Sandzak Democratic Party. Here we listen patiently this morning and wait for them to stop it. However, the drop spilled a glass and I have to go public for the citizens of Sandzak to report the facts. The poor are the believers Jocic, the police minister, are supposed to introduce to mosques, and Bajram Omeragic and Esad Djudjevic have been calling on state authorities for days and are calling on police to bring believers into mosques. There are so many mosques where they could worship and perform their religious ritual; however, no, Ugljanin and his security force people to worship on the street, and I have to say a small number of people, for days trying to massage that event to cause some bloodshed, which these days, and call their new reis, which in Sandzak with the right people call a Serbian reis, mentioning weapons, mentioning bloodshed. It's a reis of the Islamic community, it can't be Serbian, it can't be Bosniak, Islam doesn't know nations, Islam only knows believers. Here we have heard so much nebulogism that it is indeed a humiliation to the Bosniak people, humiliation is like this candidate we will talk about in the third part of the agenda, and apparently Bajram Omeragic is nervous, he knows that this candidate can't possibly pass and he couldn't wait for the third point of the agenda, but in the second point of the agenda, he talks about it, blackmailing everything alive. And he, as National Assembly Vice President Natasa Jovanovic said, is the only MP who does not know whether he is an MP or a member of the government, he does not know what he is. He counter-constitutionally attends government meetings at someone's call. I'm calling from this pay phone, especially the people in Sandzak, the believers, to be dignified because it's really embarrassing what Bajram Omeragic is doing here today, but what we're going to do, and we're going to have to suffer it, it's going to be, hopefully, all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10348	I thank Mr. Mukovic. The Republic is requested by the MP, Mr Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10349	I didn't mention any MPs, no member of the government, I didn't mention anyone, I was talking about the situation in Novi Pazar and the situation that states and certain state institutions, which in the description of their work, have to take care of security, order and peace, that institutions that care about citizens are doing their religious service where it is prescribed, that it works. This much anxiety and this much anger towards the Bosniak candidate will remain recorded in history that the Bosniak may not be elected because the Bosniaks did not want it. Therefore, it is the right of every MP to be against Bosniaks, to continue, may also be able to ban Bosniaks from being in the Constitutional Court, it will be a good message not to be Bosniaks still in the Supreme Court, at the top of the prosecution, in all other judicial institutions, but it is an accident of the Bosniak people. I would never mind if another Bosniak candidate suggested the same thing. The Sandzak List coalition would vote for five Bosniak candidates, who would become Supreme Court judges, the Constitutional Court judge and we will always vote. Interestingly, they didn't want to propose a Bosniak candidate. They don't like this one, but it's interesting that they won't propose any of the 20 candidates to be Bosniak. They order and humiliate their people, they say -- you Bosniaks don't have a decent personality, if you had one, here, we as a political option would run for one Bosniak. But we are recognised by people, unfortunately, from our region, from one party, that Bosniaks do not have a worthy candidate. And they couldn't find one they'd run for office. I'm saying if they had found one candidate, the Sandzak List coalition would have accepted it immediately. Propose one Bosniak, we'll vote him, we'll ask all the other parliamentary groups to support him. But you don't want the Bosniak to be a candidate, you don't want to run him, if you wanted to run, you'd run him, we'd vote him. Here, run for it, there's still time, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10350	I thank the People's MP. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10351	I do apologize to all the MPs. The Sandzak Democratic Party has never abused this speaker and you are all witnesses here. This is the first time we have to answer the lie we heard here today. Just because of this biography, this is a humiliation to the National Assembly that Zejnapa Kavrjic wrote her biography in three sentences or wrote to her by Bajram Omeragic. The thing is, this is what I wanted to say on the third item of the agenda, but I have to, because Bajram Omeragic here has lied that we do not support the Bosniak candidate. This is the most humiliating for the Bosniak people. Better no one than Zejnapa Kavrajić. There are Bosniaks in all institutions, it is not the end of the world unless this time he is a member of the Bosniak People's Constitutional Court. We wanted to make a deal with the Sandzak List, no matter what we have, to propose someone who would be even more equal to the other candidates, there are such candidates from the Bosniak people's ranks. However, no, they want their party activist Zejnep Kavrajic, who only wrote in the biography that he is not a member of any party. That's why she wrote it, because she's a member of the SDA's board. She was the president of the Municipal Election Commission when one of the candidates for the New Market committee died in familiar events and did not want to cancel the results of the vote in the polling post even though the man died there. She, with the personal security of Suleiman Ugljanin, as president of the Electoral Commission, visited polling stations, forced fear into the bones of voters and spoke - who does not vote for Ugljanin, is not a Muslim. That's the kind of candidate they've proposed to us here, and they're asking us to back him up. We'll never agree to that, and Bajram Omeragic knows it can't go through, hence his anxiety and exposure for this pay phone this morning and when and when it doesn't have to. Otherwise, as for citizens to give the Sandzak List some trust, this is best said by the number of votes cast in the elections in the Sandzak List. That's one thing. I'm asking for another minute, so I don't report back to the Rules of Procedure. Another thing I'd like to point out, it's one of the skillful manipulations that Bajram Omeragic has been here all the time, calling for positive discrimination, so whenever there's something to choose, even though it's against the constitution, "give us, we're threatened, we're a minority". No, we from the Sandzak Democratic Party won't do it like that. He who seeks positive discrimination here for all and all things, where they exercise power, is most wirelessly dealt with both political opponents, and with journalists, stealing elections, doing all kinds of things. The media, which are under their control, are worse for RTS during Slobodan Milosevic, much, much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10352	Replica has MP Bajro Omeragic, followed by Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10353	In the absence of good humorous shows, I think what the previous MP was saying is good. I didn't even mention him. If anyone convinces me, here, I urge all MPs to take the list proposed by Boris Tadic, to take the list proposed by the Assembly, perhaps we Members of the Sanjak List couldn't see, from 20 names there, another Bosniak whom they proposed. We said, "Propose you Bosniaks and we'll back him up." We had a meeting, there are heads of parliament, with Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, where all parliamentary groups are said to have the right to propose candidates, not party candidates, but candidates they consider to meet the conditions. I don't see why you're so nervous. You've had opportunities, as MPs, to propose to a Bosniak who you consider to meet the law of the prescribed conditions. By not offering you said there's no Bosniak, here, you don't like ours, which we suggested. If he were a board member, it's nebulose and I wouldn't comment on it, it's total fiction. If he were a board member, he couldn't be a district court judge. So it's off. As for the election results, here you go, come out under your name, to measure in the election, so let's see. You had to hide on a list and get that number under that list. We went to the polls on our own. The first time this parliament passed a law that minority representatives could have their own list, we predicated to represent minorities. We've never challenged anyone's right to get minorities on other lists. We just used that right. So, based on that right, we got it. After this meeting we had with the president of the assembly, it was said, there was Mr. Todorovic, and Mrs. Kolundzija, was Aligrudic, he was Albianic, they were all, the president of parliament said all parliamentary groups have the right to propose a candidate. We've proposed a candidate. I don't understand why we're so nervous because we're invited to propose a candidate. We've ordered everyone and prayed for everything, the more Bosniaks on that list, the more we'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10354	Thank you. Mr. Bajram, don't spread, you're always going over three minutes, so come on, three minutes, stick to the line, then three minutes again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10355	That's why I can conclude that the Sandzak List Coalition really wants to vote for all Bosniaks who are candidates. That's what we've proposed to everyone and we've asked all the parliamentary groups to vote for every Bosniak proposed for the Constitutional Court Judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10356	The word is made by the People's Messenger Esad Djudjevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10357	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that in the central New Market mosque, Altun Alem mosque, a monument to the 16th century culture, which is under the protection of the state as an exceptional monument of culture for the Republic of Serbia, there are 50 armed people in the religious facility. Therefore, this state is obliged to disarm these people and enable the believers to perform their rituals in accordance with the Constitution and the law. My colleague Mukovic, I'm telling you, we've done in the last session that all minorities, who want to deal with minority rights and their consumption, can do so on the minority list. This was used by the Bosniaks, Hungarians, Roma and Albanians. They are located in the benches of this parliament and have the legitimate right to fight. You who have never entered a religious facility, let alone a mosque, give yourselves the right to discuss it. That's a little degutant and rude. I'm telling you, in the next election, use the right to compete in our region's programmes, who's going to fight more for minority rights, who's going to fight for development projects and so on. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10358	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have an obligation, because of one part of the Roma Party's voters who are Muslim faiths, to ask all the debaters to draw one clear distinction between it, not to mix a national and religious issue. I agree that it would be good for one of the Bosniaks or minority members to be in the Constitutional Court. I also agree with those who say that it should be the most qualified people and those people who can answer that, but really I'm going to finish with that, don't add up the national and religious question, don't raise regional issues to the level of religious issues. It's not good that we share any national community on the basis of faith. Let us have members of the national minorities. We'll talk later that way. Understand that when we talk about representatives of minorities, when we talk about representatives of Bosniaks, Roma or others who have Muslims, it means these creeds, we immediately transfer the fight to the ground of churches, to carry the fight to the ground whether we have such or such a situation in mosques. I call upon you to distinguish it and not put those stories in the same basket, because I'm afraid it's all like politics to us. It's my duty, once again, to speak for the Roma Muslims.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10360	The word has the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, head of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10361	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I really ask you that, if possible, local problems that are extremely important, they are important with several aspects, so they are in many ways really important problems, but that we are not trying to solve them for this assembly speaker. So what is also extremely important is that we try to get the politics as little involved in some of the problems that are related to other issues and other institutions as possible. We also really believe that in some of the issues of the state not only should it not interfere, at least not with what constitutes a state force, but should not really interfere. So we have to look for solutions outside the space where the state, with its state power, would solve some issues that really need to remain in one completely different domain. Member of the Rules of Procedure 103. I wanted, first of all, to react to the fact that no one is hiding in parties, there are parties that have representatives of all national minorities, and that really doesn't mean that someone within these parties is hiding. On the contrary, we think it is really very important that every party, acting on a political stage, has members of national minorities in its ranks and that the issues of national minorities are fundamental issues of these parties. So I don't think only representatives of national minorities' parties advocate issues related to national minorities. I think it's the problem of the whole society and, as such, the problem of all parties and the question of all parties. The representatives of national minorities are represented here in all the parties in this House. Sensitivity to the issues of national minorities is something that all parties must deal with. The fact is, just one more thing to say, there was an invitation for all the parliamentary groups to run proposals for the Constitutional Court and you're absolutely right. So, you, using this agreement, have proposed a candidate as a representative of the minority parliamentary group. We don't argue about it. We have no problem with you actually doing as we agreed. There are, of course, here on various sides of the challenge of the candidate's personality, not just one, but according to everything we've heard so far, many candidates have been challenged here. It is now a matter of politically opposed sightings about who is the best candidate and who is not. What's our common interest is that these candidates don't really be party candidates, that they really do work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10362	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10363	Dear Chairman, as I said at the outset, my intention was not for one moment, and I think we have proven that, to abuse this pay phone and to transfer our local or regional disputes from the Sanjay municipalities here and to take away the right of the MPs to talk about topics that are on the agenda. But I was forced, as I am now, to use my right to the Rules of Procedure. As soon as I say and deny what we heard from the Sandzak list MPs that, behold, the Sandzak Democratic Party does not want to support the Bosniaks. We, as you all know, voted for Esad Djudjevic to be the vice president of the Assembly, our most direct political opponent, not wanting to bring further evil blood and division, and wanting to demonstrate that we are for agreements, for conversations, etc. On the occasion of this proposal for the Constitutional Court, I would like to make it clear that, if we already need national communities to propose their candidates, that the candidate of the Bosniak people or the Bosniak national minorities be even with the other candidates, and that they do not, in this way, humiliate us, for who knows which time, our candidate is the worst. Then a message is sent to the Bosniak people precisely by running for office that we are the worst. Well, we don't agree with the Sandzak Democratic Party on that. That's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Judjevic spoke to me himself, and he forgets this fact that we voted for him, and he forgets the fact that he got that place with a gift. First, the LDP donated the place to minorities, namely the Manjina parliamentary club, so Mr. Judjevic won the place as a compromise. He's using that place now, playing some authority here and calling on the state authorities to interfere in the affairs of the Islamic community. I think it's a disaster, what we heard from him. What he said to me personally, if I had never entered any religious facility, it speaks more of him, I would really not have commented. It's too much to comment on. I go to the mosque whenever I have time. Of course, it is difficult to be a true Muslim in that true sense, for it involves five times doing the table, serving, and so on. I really can't do that, but I go whenever I have time. Mr. Judjevic gave himself the right to tell me never to go to the mosque. Apparently in the lack of arguments, they found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, trying to execute a coup. (President: I thank you, Mr Mukovic. They tried to execute a coup in the Islamic community, to create a parallel Islamic community. They failed, and now they use the congregation pay phone to call on the public authorities to help them do so. I'm sure they won't get it, because this country hasn't fallen so low and these state authorities are getting involved in the Islamic community and giving Ugljan his private Islamic community.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10364	Thank you. The People's Messenger is Esad Judžević, and then the Messenger of the People, Munir Poturak, and then the Messenger of the People, Zvonko Stević, and then the messenger of the people, Laslo Varga, all according to the Noble. Let's finish this by two o'clock, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10365	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to say one fact for the sake of the public of Serbia, as vice president of this high house, that I have been elected to the proposal of the Manjin Parliament Club, the Vojvodjani MPs and, above all, the DSS Parliament Club. By one good tradition of this assembly, all MPs, 234 voted for both Esad Djudjevic and the other five vice presidents of this house. So that's one of the lies you've told. Secondly, once again, I would like to call on us not to interfere in the work of a religious institution, we must and I am obliged and vice president of this Parliament to say and to ask this country to protect the rights of citizens, so that they can freely consume them, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. That's all it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10366	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10367	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, Serbia's citizens will get the impression that the representatives of the national minorities are appearing from this pay phone, that Serbia cannot breathe without national minorities, that there is no place in Europe without national minorities. I have a good proposal, given that the candidate of the national minorities in front of the Sandzak List, or representatives of minorities from Novi Pazar, Mrs Zejnapa Kavrajić, could propose one Roma, one Hungarian, one Egyptian, so make these 10 all national minorities. Serbia would probably be in Europe tomorrow. This payphone uses the opportunity to be blackmailed and not to return to the election since 2000, when both Mr. Esad Djudjevic and Mr. Bajram Omeragic, with the support of the Democratic Party, were one day and one night within the Democratic Party, and the next day, when they were in a situation to be elected by MPs or state secretaries, the constitution was violated, so they were both one day and another, and it came out in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and they were all seen and are where they are today. Today, the Democratic Party is also being blackmailed from this pay phone, and Mr Tadic, in a negative sense, mentions and comes to the conclusion that national minorities are starting to blackmail -- we voted, now we need someone to represent us, especially in such an institution that should be the top, the cream of this country. What I can say in front of the Sandzak Democratic Party, we are on the Democratic Party list, I am glad, I want to say from here, and I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, and those who voted for the Sandzak Democratic Party, that we supported and were on the Democratic Party list just because we estimated that the Democratic Party is a leader among the democratic parties, that Mr Tadic is a leader among the democratics and that this is a chance to be in Europe as soon as possible. The fact that the Treaty of Accession of the European Community was initialled the other day shows that we are on the right track. The fact is that this is a chance to choose the best and you will best defend the interests and national minorities, and other peoples in this country. In spite of all this, I think what should be the basis for national minorities is to support all those people who are faster to lead Serbia to Europe, because in such competition we will have a better chance of showing who is more capable, who is more skilled, who is more educated, to get the status of being measured in such a large system, where national minorities will be measured not by protection, but by what they are capable of, and that is a chance for us. One more piece, I'm sorry. The other part, I will return to the Rules of Procedure, is what Mr. Bajro Omeragic and Mr. Esad Djudžević were talking to at first from this pay phone, especially the people in Sandzak downstairs, in Novi Pazar, their voters, as protectors of the Bosniaks and protectors of the Islamic community. Please allow me, if not now, then after the Rules of Procedure, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10368	Please, after the Rules of Procedure, you'll get your word. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you should have sat down and agreed on candidates for the Constitutional Court. I have reported for other reasons, but before I say what I have reported, with all due respect for the rights of national minorities, with respect for all international conventions and rules, I am asking this session and this high house when we will discuss the situation and situation of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, because there are no more endangered rights on the 21st century than the rights of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. You gentlemen have electricity, you have water, you have freedom. We have no electricity, no water, no freedom. I answered on the basis of an article. The 225th and 226th to say that you know, the general public knows that in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, the government has suspended the elections for November 17th, that's Saturday. I want to inform the public that UNMIK has registered 180 thousand voters since its arrival in Kosovo and Metohija. I answered because I think it's a huge space to manipulate voters and voters. I ask the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Interior whether a vote will be held on Saturday in the central part of Serbia's territory? How many polling stations will there be, how many voters will vote? Because information is circulating that some ballot boxes are already orbiting Serbia, that the OSCE is in the role of observers. Who's gonna control that shipment of boxes, ballots and throw up that voting material? He's saying he's gonna vote through the mail. I ask the authorities of the competent institution to take care of the attempt to abuse the Post for political purposes. We know, the public knows that the ruling coalition, the Socialist Party has said that from the very beginning, has advocated that these elections should not be taken out, and even though this time the top state authorities have said that Serbs do not participate in local and regional elections. However, here I am saying that some representatives of the DS and G17 plus are silently advocated and negotiating that Serbs go to the polls. Once again I ask the question and ask for information as soon as possible on the vote in Kosovo and Metohija, or the central part, how many voters will vote, how many polling stations will be opened, when, how and how? I am looking for an answer, because we from the Socialist Party believe this is an excellent opportunity for abuse and manipulation of votes in Kosovo and Metohija, as advocates are being heard that Albanians are allegedly going to vote for some Serb lists, which would be a precedent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10370	The word has been made by MP Lasslo Varga, also advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10371	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to protest the fact that the ruling coalition has again obstructed the work of the National Assembly. In fact, MPs of the ruling coalition appear alternately under the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, of course, they insult their exhibitions to representatives of national minorities. When it is said that national minorities have talked about some local and regional problems here, it is an insult to us, because the problem is that there are no representatives of national minorities on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court, President of the Republic. It's not a local or regional problem, it's a general problem. Unfortunately, Mrs. Kolundjia is not in the O.R. right now, otherwise she said this insult. She said most of the parties in the National Assembly have representatives of national minorities. That is true, only those representatives, those MPs, as a rule, vote against those proposals that are in the interest of national minorities. That's the problem. It is now on the agenda, in addition to the election of the Constitutional Court judges, and the Constitutional Court law, which I have already said, that this law moves practically to abolish one right of national minorities, which is an existing acquired right. The bill provides for the abolition of the jurisdiction of national councils to declare a constitutional appeal, as is possible at this time. As for giving up the post of vice president of the National Assembly, I want to say some facts. She didn't give LDP anything. Namely, they have 11 MPs, and behind Mr. Djudjevic's candidacy was a six-seat Manjin parliamentary club, a Vojvodjani MP with five MPs, plus Mr. Shain. That means 12 MPs, so I ask you to consider this fact in the future. Of course, it is also not true that the President of the Republic is blackmailing anyone in the election of a candidate for the Constitutional Court. We simply cannot accept that the President of the Republic collects or wants to collect votes from members of the national minorities, and then has no intention of solving their problems or respecting them, even though he puts at least one representative of the national minorities on his list of candidates for the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10372	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. The Republic, at last, has Mr Dragan Todorovic, the MP of the SRS, and then the replica Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the mention of the SRS and what we have in a well-intentioned way tried to, possibly the problem that exists in Novi Pazar, indicate how this could be solved, especially when it comes to Bajram Omeragic, who, by the circumstances, is sitting in government sessions, we have instructed him to try in the fastest and simplest way to solve the problem created in Novi Pazar. I must tell you that the SRS will not interfere with any single gesture in this problem that has arisen, first of all I mean in the political division between the two parties. We'll try to be completely out of the way, that in no way, at any cost, we'll favor anyone. I have to tell you one thing, when I saw an American ambassador on Iftar's evening, I knew you'd have big problems. To whom the Americans went to help, they, as our people say, robbed Bosnia. There is only one thing about them, and it is an interest, an attempt to abuse both religious and national rights, and also political divisions, or party divisions, and they have never done anyone any good. You know best how Americans treat Muslims in the world. How can you possibly believe one single moment that he will be different to you and that he will treat you differently? They are in the interest of creating a problem within the Muslim community. They are trying to point it at Serbia in the extreme. They don't care at all that there's been a problem between you, which can cause much more serious problems, as we're witnessing, not to say that blood falls, but very close to the situation and the blood to fall. You will do exactly what they want to do to make use of you at a given time. The side they support, although now represented as peacemakers, uninterested, wants, reportedly, that within the Islamic community there is peace, essentially doing everything to achieve division, will allow one party to win the conflict and turn that side against Serbia. So I'm warning you, solve your problems as soon as possible, without interfering with anyone on the side. This will benefit the Muslim community, and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10374	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The word is from MP Bajro Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10375	I really couldn't believe that a Bosniak candidate for the Constitutional Court could cause this much negative energy with a number of MPs. Here it is said, take a stenogram, I have not mentioned any MP, no minister, I have not mentioned anyone. Now I will not mention the names of three MPs who have left this assembly for two days in protest that the state is not doing its job in the Shadow. We're told that we're blackmailing the state, they're holding a press conference, they're leaving the Assembly, until the state starts doing its job. We did not hold a press conference, nor did we condemn why they left the work of the congregation, nor did we mention their names, nor did they insult them. So much insult has now been brought here to what Mrs. Kolundjia has confirmed. She confirmed that we were at a meeting with the president of the assembly and the president of the assembly invited us to propose a candidate, as representatives, no Bosniak party, Mr Varga said that, Mr Balint said this morning, as representatives of the Manjin parliamentary group, no political options. Ours was the attitude, and we made it public. Everyone who suggests the Bosniaks will support it. But I don't see any reason for this kind of negative energy, this much insult, this much hate language for this pay phone, because we dared to use the right that the president gave us and said we were right. We are again calling on all MPs, all parliamentary groups, to propose to the Bosniaks who we have heard here, it is said that there are Bosniaks who are moral, professional, not members of any party, propose them and I am telling you, as representatives of the Sandzak List coalition -- we will vote for them. I don't see where the problem is. Whoever suggested it, we'll vote for it. We will not insult anyone, nor blackmail anyone. As far as blackmail is concerned, I can't believe it's a matter of arithmetic, mathematics, as an exact science, with two MPs that we blackmail the Assembly and state bodies. I don't get it at all. Who can we blackmail? We just said that the Constitution of this country predicts that minorities are represented in institutions. Today we have an institution to choose, we have proposed one candidate. (President: Thank you, Mr. Bajro. I don't see where the problem is. There's no reason to insult, no reason to be upset, no reason to use a dictionary of hate. Everyone should run for their candidate, explain it. We even said at this meeting... (President: Thank you, Bajro. )......................................................................................................... with the President of the Assembly - whoever proposes the Bosniak, we will not comment on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10376	Thank you. You've said that more than once. Finally, the word has been made by the People's MP, Miss Jelena Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10377	I'd like to try to get things back on track. I'm not saying that events in Sandzak are less important, or in Raska, as radicals prefer to say, however, we're not going to get involved, but I think we should still use this assembly pay phone to talk about the agenda ahead of us. I am pleased that today, as part of the agenda, President Tadic's proposals for the Constitutional Court judges stand before us, because we have waited a long time and because we have all agreed that we need the Constitutional Court through, that we have finally reached that point of the agenda and that many of our controversy and doubt will be resolved by the fact that there is a Constitutional Court, which will solve our problems and complaints, instead of us giving different so-called. authentic interpretations of the Constitution and the law. I am glad, too, that the list, which lies ahead of us, the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges is not the DS list, although it is said that we, by the fact that we are undermining it, are being embroiled from President Tadic's proposal. No, we are just opponents of party courts and absolutely do not think that the president of the state should, regardless of what his political party is, represent the interests of the party, but represent the interests of all citizens. In that sense, we are glad that it is not a party list, but something else. That is why I would remind, since there have been objections here that it could happen that the court is working on the dictatorship of one political party, not by defending DS, but by any other party that will have the president of the state tomorrow, who will have the parliamentary majority, that the constitutional solution is such that it prevents political parties from abusing the Constitutional Court, by the fact that five judges are proposing a cassation court, five presidents of the state, and five Assemblys. And if you take a good look at the suggestions in front of you, the next item of the agenda will be congregation proposals. We have had plenty of opportunities here to hear how the list of candidates came into play and the public is well aware of the fact that DS has advocated not to be a list of candidates proposed by the assembly majority and to be voted by the assembly majority, but rather by all parliamentary groups. The DS on the list did not propose any candidates, giving it to other parliamentary groups, and therefore it is not true that these candidates are DS President Tadic. We do not want the majority of one political opinion to prevail, if there is such a possibility at all, and we have demonstrated by the fact that we do not want our candidates on the National Assembly list, believing that both the ethnic structure and every other, and geographical, as there have been stories here, and that the Constitution itself requires that all other criteria be respected in the election of the Constitutional Court judges because they satisfy all the citizens of this country. The second complaint on this list that lies ahead is the professionalism of the people who are proposed. So, of course this is exactly where we're going to talk about it, whether we have good candidates or not. But the way we're going to talk about them is the next, the only legal basis and only correct political, so to speak. So you know what criteria are for some people, where they are considered problematic, non-problematic, successful and unfulfilled in their careers or not. Statistics are inexorable here. Here we have three judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, three professors of law school, two prosecutors, none of these people come from some function where someone has appointed him in a magical way, not the owner of a private office, but people who have passed a professional court, but by choosing these functions, and some of them were also appointed by this same Assembly, perhaps in another assembly. But they're past the so-called. The will of the citizens. Secondly, we have before us their biographies, which speak enough about their professional engagement. The way we can kill what's written about them is next. So, since it's been said here that some of them have criminal charges, and I remind you, criminal charges can be filed by any citizen and that if we want to abuse that institute, we can disqualify everyone from public life. But if anyone has the knowledge that these people have in any way violated the right and order of this country, they shouldn't keep it for the assembly pay phone, rather than to address the competent authorities, which is simply the obligation of each of us as a citizen. In that sense, the DS has no objection to tomorrow's vote on the resolution of these judges, if true claims about their affairs are proved, but we also leave the right for those who slandered without evidence to be held accountable for disqualifying some people from this pay phone, without any arguments. The third thing I'm saying is, we've been here to witness a rather ugly debate about how the presidential candidate thanks, and I quote that word thanks to my voters. So the minorities are also placed in one position of the trade, in which it is even said, and I quote it, so next time vote for us, so you'll see what you get. So, as far as I understand and when I define myself as a citizen for a candidate, I don't define myself because he says what he's going to give to my local community, or to me as a woman or in any way to qualify and classify, but what he's going to offer to this entire country and to every citizen of it. In that sense, I remind you, therefore, that President Tadic here plays a double role, as it is said here that he forgot to protect minorities. So, on the one hand, he proposes a list, and on the other hand he chooses from the congregation list, and it is very well known that he will not ignore that principle that this is an ethnically heterogeneous country and that this should be its Constitutional Court. Let's talk about it in the end and see if we were right when we said that this constitutional court would be a picture of this country and the democratic principles we're fighting for. When it comes to respecting minorities, minorities are respected by following the country's European orientation, which is co-operated with their countries of origin, which is a matter of establishing peace and reconciliation in the region, which respects the rights of national minorities, which fights to keep every sentence in the new constitution, up to the end, from the Constitutional Charter, which has been assessed as one of the best constitutions in the field of protection of human and minority rights, which defends national councils, defending all the provisions concerning acquired rights, which leads to a democratic open policy that will also allow Hungarians in the north of Vojvodina, and Albanians in southern Serbia, and Roma throughout this beautiful country, to feel as citizens of the state that protects both this assembly, and their government. I am quite sure that what I am saying will confirm the results in the elections and that citizens will choose not by who offered them a candidate from their political authentic party, but by those who allowed them to have a court that is democratic and real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10378	I would like to thank Miss Jeleni Markovic, the MP. The morning part of the session is over with this. Continuing at 15.00 hours. The first speaker will be the MP Slobodan Maras and the second MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10379	We'll continue our afternoon work. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, and then a National MP, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10380	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda point is very important, however, the importance of this point, that is, the importance of the election of the Constitutional Court judges, has diminished the absence of the motionary. The president of the Republic of Boris Tadic is proposing these 10 candidates. However, Boris Tadic is not here with us today to try to explain to us, to clarify and to tell us some of the main features, those who are on his side, and we can understand that, but he could send someone from his cabinet who could best answer some of the questions that we from the LDP and the MPs of the other opposition parties have asked us here. This is not to say that it speaks best of the relationship to all this, however, what we have witnessed during the previous debate is that these are indeed DS candidates, and the best thing about this is that only later representatives, i.e. DS MPs, have applied to try to deport this absence in some way. It has tried several MPs from the DS, very inconclusive, very soft, to give us answers to some questions. I don't know if the reason they're ashamed of their proposals or if they really don't have much to say about these suggestions. We of the LDP have one principled objection when it comes to these candidates, or when it comes to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Of course this will be a political court, of course it will be a court in the hands of Boris Tadic, for the simple reason that Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic, has proposed 10 candidates we are talking about today and we should choose five. Also, the Republika Srpska Assembly will propose its 10 candidates, of which Boris Tadic will elect five candidates, who will be judges of the Constitutional Court. So, 10 judges of the Constitutional Court, we can say, in fact, that there will be Judge Boris Tadic. What's the problem? The problem is that, because there are some members of our Constitution and I will only quote one, let's say Article 115, which says - Incompatibility of the function of the President of the Republic, and says that the President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity. Let's now imagine hypothetically that LDP MPs submit to the Constitutional Court, initiate a procedure that Boris Tadic violated the constitution because at the same time the president of the Republic and the president of the DS, because you will all agree that we do not often know how he performs, whether he performs as the president of the DS or as president of the Republic. What, then, is the 10 judges of the Constitutional Court who, either proposed by Boris Tadic or were elected with his consent? I don't think anyone has a dilemma that they're going to say, of course, that the Constitution hasn't been broken, and I think it's going to be a big problem for those people who are going to be judges of the Constitutional Court. Of course we have a lot of problems with some of them. We have, first of all, a grudge on how they're proposed. The same case was with the Constitution, and I really need to point out, that everything that is done quickly, under some secrecy, anything that has no answers to the questions we ask, we must have a great sign of the questionnaire, and we must have great concern about how this will reflect on all citizens of Serbia, especially one of the most important institutions, which is the Constitutional Court. We heard here the other day that some MPs were equating the Constitutional Court with the State Auditing Institution or the RIK, saying any party could propose. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court is not such an institution, it cannot be a political institution. We are witnessing that even those who have had the opportunity to propose only one candidate, on the one hand we hear that it is a party personality, on the other hand it is disproved etc. We're afraid that this, I repeat, will be a political court and therefore we as LDP MPs have not proposed anyone as judge of the Constitutional Court. What else is there for us to put in trouble? When we had a choice, let's say, the State Audit Institutions, the Citizens' Protector, when we had the choice of the Public Information Commissioner, none of these people, meaning that they entered the State Auditing Institution or were elected Commissioner and Protector, received support from the ruling majority in this assembly. And I'm afraid they won't get any of these Constitutional Court judges in the future either, because we've seen that every body of the state that proposes this ruling majority, whether the assembly or government, has no support for whoever suggested it. I therefore underline that LDP MPs will not vote, i.e. they will not support this proposal and will not vote for the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10381	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, then by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I think that this beginning of the afternoon work of the Serbian Parliament in some way shows the relationship between the ruling parties to this issue and their presence, that you have practically started a session before an empty hall. Here, there's Mr. Shami, all four MPs were from these three ruling parties, which I don't think is appropriate. To return to the agenda, the question is raised here, and in some ways the SRS is being transferred to the Constitutional Court, whether or not the Constitutional Court is needed. I think that construction is artificially performed and that it absolutely does not stand as far as the SRS is concerned. There is absolutely no question of whether or not we need the Constitutional Court - we need it. But now it's a question of what kind of court we need, that's what the SRS has been trying to put to the knowledge and MPs of the Serbian Parliament and the citizens of Serbia all along. That the Constitutional Court needs it, you're the best one who's got all that data or one piece of data and the facts that are in favor of forming a Constitutional Court. The same or similar reasons we brought here, asking that the Constitutional Court be formed. And then the question arises why has it not been done so far, why is it being late for at least six months, why do we not have a Constitutional Court since 2000, almost four years in continuity? That's the problem you faced. The second problem, you are trying to convince us Serbian MPs and citizens that the composition of the Constitutional Court will be impartial, that you have proposed candidates who deserve to be there in all qualities, from professional to moral. You point out that the DS is not behind these proposals by Serbian President Boris Tadic. Then how is it possible not to stand DS when you go out and advocate it? How are you going to choose this list? I don't care what the DS is doing on this. It's normal for you to support your party president's proposal. The second question is, what about the two remaining political parties in your ruling coalition? What kind of picture are you sending to Serbia? Are there any MPs from DSS and G 17 on this list? What does this list say? He says that you are still divided, that the DSS is absolutely not interested in Boris Tadic's proposal, which is moreover against the proposal. What about G 17? At least they claim that expertise is above politics or ahead of politics. Why not defend the expertise of these candidates proposed by the party president? This is the biggest problem for this country: your division and your work within the Serbian government, which implies the strictly restricted borders in the ministries you have received, no one interferes in the business, you do what you think is most useful to you, or your party. You do not show by any gesture that the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state are important to you. At least on this question you had to find a consensus and make a deal. What kind of deal did you make? Simple, we'll have our candidates, stay out of these candidates, whatever they are, you suggest your candidates, we won't interfere with your candidates. What do we get? We will get candidates from one party and another party, regardless of who proposes them, who will act on the party's orders when they make a decision on any issue on which the Constitutional Court makes a decision. Such a constitutional court does not need Serbia, it does not need citizens of Serbia, and this is best shown by the names of candidates who have arrived as well as the president of Serbia, and by this agreed proposal by the Serbian Parliament. Do we need a Constitutional Court? Yes, it is. Where has he been? Is it possible that, I don't know what, in 30 and some municipalities in Serbia, it's practically forced management, and elections are not being debated. Would it be possible that the Constitutional Court was formed when it was to be formed, that this condition would be so? Who does that suit? Does that match the opposition parties? No, it corresponds to the parties that are in power, or that are in government. Those who did not win the local elections, the violation of the Constitution and the law, thanks to most, also get power in a municipality that does not belong to them, because citizens did not vote for their representatives. Do you think what happened in Belgrade would happen? Do you think that in such a harsh way would be violated by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure in the Belgrade City Assembly? You wouldn't, you'd have to take care of it, because the Constitutional Court would have to say its word about it. Do you think the Constitutional Court would easily go over the fact that the reason for the election to the mayor of Belgrade is your conviction and belief that local elections will be called within six months. Who can trust you? What have you proved that Serbia's citizens and we, as MPs of the opposition in the Serbian Parliament, can we believe that you will honor what you promise here in the Assembly? No, all the actions we've done so far say that you're the only one who's leading in politics, that's usefulness. You even point that out at every opportunity. What is useful to you is best for you, but it is not best for the citizens and the state of Serbia. That's why we stand for the law because the law goes over these things of usefulness, or is not determined on the basis of usefulness, but is prescribed exactly what it can do, what it can't do, and in what time limits. That's why we insisted on forming a Constitutional Court in time, not getting into this situation. Now I'm asking you, based on what's going on with the Constitutional Court, which is what you guarantee this thing will end the way you want it to, and I mean DS. Obviously, your motives are different. The DS in any way wants this set of laws, which is needed to call the elections, to be brought to the Serbian Parliament, but it is obvious that the DSS does not share with you at all the same desire. As far as I can tell from their way of doing things, they're looking at things to be delayed in every way possible, to question it, because I understand them. To them, it's legitimate. They are trying to gain time to fix their very, very weak political rating by convincing Serbian citizens that there are far more important things than the elections. You do not care about the election because Serbia will receive something or Serbia's citizens. You are trying to solve this problem, i.e. to go to elections before resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. The day "D" that was set for December 10th seems to have been moved, according to some announcements, the Americans are ready to postpone it until the elections in Serbia are over. Let's ask a logical question -- how is it in America's interest to postpone such an important issue, such as Kosovo's independence, until the elections in Serbia are over. What led Americans to make such a decision, when they claimed they should by the end of 2006, and then that they should in the spring of 2007, but then there was a deal, if you remember, that the election for the president was in May 2007, and it was postponed, and then on December 10th 2007, it would be postponed again. What are the motives that lead the Americans to delay the election? I am ready to accept the reasons that the DSS states when it opposes the December elections, that Boris Tadic wants to escape responsibility for a solution that will try to compete with the United States. If we translate that into an understandable language, then it says Boris Tadic is an American puppet and that he prefers them to be a man who they are sure won't take any step that will not suit America. What's the other reason? That's what's completely logical from what's happening to us. Remember the election of Tomislav Nikolic as speaker of the assembly, when you exchanged between yourselves all true information, i.e. fear, and what is who and how politically it works. These are the biggest problems facing Serbia, facing Serbian citizens. That's why the SRS didn't even want to negotiate this issue with other parties, because we realized that it was political trade and that political trade was clearly limited. This is our president, these five will be yours, and those next five you'll probably distribute among yourselves, and we'll get practically not the Constitutional Court, as harshly as I call it, the trade court, but the court that came out of the store. Unfortunately, he will make such decisions. It won't be good for Serbia, and I think you've gone the wrong way, and that road will go about the head and the citizens of Serbia, as well as you in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10383	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic and then by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10384	I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Bajram Omeragic still believes in Santa Claus and Boris Tadic's pre-election promises. At the time, you sang "New Market Small Town, Lived by Boris Tadic." You've just brought Boris Tadic to the position he's in today, and here's how he repays you. I hope in the next election you'll be counting, because only a careless man stumbles twice about the same stone. Of course, all the time you were talking about Mrs. Zejnapi Kavrjic, Judge of the District Court, and you forgot that she is on the third list, that this is the third item of the agenda, that today we are discussing the second item of the agenda, we are discussing the list proposed by President Boris Tadic. Before I go on the list, I need to make some of my impressions today. My first impression was the enthusiasm of Bosko Ristić by finally getting the Constitutional Court. A man in euphoria fell this morning saying from this assembly pay phone that there is Serbia's Constitutional Court. Where Bosko Ristic was, and everyone else. A year ago, two, three, four, we don't have a Constitutional Court, and now we come into a situation to finally resolve that enigma. Why don't we have a Constitutional Court? Let me remind you, in the past term, and in this mandate of the SRS, the MPs of the SRS almost at each session raise the issue of an affair. The affair is being covered up, because if we had a Constitutional Court, we wouldn't be able to cover it up. The Constitutional Court, however it may be, would have to resolve these affairs and the actors of the affair to bring to the familiar, above all, rights. Of course, given the fact that you've divided Serbia into despots, into spas, and then every single one of your segments, and don't interfere with me, I won't interfere with you, how long it took you to build a government, just because of the division. How long did it take you to share public enterprises? Were these citizens' interests too far-fetched, so you decided for as long as any company would belong to? If there were a Constitutional Court, there would be no such affairs in Serbia's Oil Industry. It couldn't have happened that 200,000 gallons before the new year went by, that installation has no access to the whole of Novi Sad, but maybe a dozen people. It could, on behalf of and last name, be found in the second that it was done. It's not in anyone's interest. Did the MUP and Minister Jocic do anything about it? No, they're not. Let me get the impression that there's little interest in some party friends, at least, Minister. Did the Minister of Justice do anything about the investigation? It's not. Let me get the impression that there is a safe and interesting party friend minister of justice. What about those great affairs, to remind you, from the sale of the Book of Miles to this last Water? What about flying control where incredible money, state money, steals from day to day? The man's got 1,400,000 dinars on his salary. A man makes tenders about how he thinks, deals about how he thinks. Look at their fleet, and nothing to anyone. But he has a qualification, he's by the profession of a lady who was a secretary in some of the ministries, so he's got a fat backdrop and he can. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, after the next election, I don't know what's beyond school prep, but this husband -- I know it for sure. Ladies and gentlemen, after the next storms, all these affairs will be open.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10385	Please, Mr. Markovic, come back on the subject, don't say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10386	Mr. Albianic, don't interrupt me, I'm just coming up on the scale of things, so I'm afraid you're not confusing me. It's because of these huge affairs, because of the thieving, because you've divided the state into a spa, because every minister has more than 40 assistants, and Ali Baba didn't have more than 40 assistants and deputies either. Now, your ministers have, 54 assistants have one minister. Isn't that a shame? The only thing that works in this country, the only thing that gets paid, is these administrations that you've produced, the bureaucracy that you've literally been through the cell division system, the amoeba system has been multiplying, and the agency for this, and the agency for that, etc. You gnaw the state to its bones, there's nothing left. Now we're going to bring a constitutional court, but we're not going to build a constitutional court that will work in accordance with the Constitution, but we're going to start by proposing exactly those who have proven themselves in a law that was in public debate and which, now that it's voting day, we're going to vote and vote. In Article 15, the Constitutional Court judge is resolved if he becomes a member of the political party. What is the guarantee that those now proposed by Boris Tadic and those proposed by President Dulic are not members of political parties? How are you going to convince us MPs now that they are not in political parties? In view of their so far functioning, and in courts where they were and also in public life, I can determine exactly who the political party belongs to. Will you open up the computers to get into the database, see if they're members of your political parties? You won't, of course. Since there are still a lot of speakers from the SRS, I do not want all 10 proposals proposed by Boris Tadic to comment on, I will only stay for two. I think my colleagues, the MPs of the SRS, will comment on the rest, so you can see, let's strip the citizens of Serbia to see who you're proposing for the judges of the Constitutional Court. The first one I would really like to talk about is a candidate who is number eight is Dragisa Slepcevic, otherwise the Supreme Court judge. Let me remind you of the action of that Supreme Court judge. Ten years ago, the road construction company got a tender in India to build a water and water tower. The road construction builds, finishes the business and water supply and the water tower enters the exploitation and day and day the Indjia citizens use the water supply and the water tower. When Jesic was to be paid, the president of the municipality, banned payment, and they had no chance of paying for everything they had previously cleaned up, who was the leper of the forest, the municipal register, the ban on payment and, of course, the man, Mihajlo Mihajlovic, I think the name of the owner and director of the company, started the lawsuit. For three times now, the district court has taken advantage of the contractors, and three times the Supreme Court rejects this and returns to re-determination. Look at the wonders, all three times the chairman of that council is this Blind Man. It's a figure of over a million euros. With interest of ninety-something years, when it was, it's probably already approaching two million. The Road Engineering, since they owe it, comes back to the competition when, I suppose, in Maradik, you will correct me, Mr. Vukelic, should have built a water tower. Of course, they didn't, because they already owe him a lot and find another investor. The man built a water tower, the water tower stood upright, and the wind could not do anything to him. I mean, when they filled it with water, the water tower fell, even hurt some people there. So much for the quality of the contractors of these papers who received tenders along with the commission. This man, thanks to Slepčevic, the Indji municipality still owes over 2m euros. That man, since he proved himself to be a moral gromad, and while reminding you that the president of the Indji municipality, if you let him out of your sight, was a member of the GSS, so the moment the GSS began to limp slowly, when they began to leave him, he taped into the DS. He doesn't need your program, he doesn't need your statute, he doesn't need your ideology, he needs your protection, and he's being protected by Judge Slepčević, now as judge of the Constitutional Court. The MPs of the SRS will not vote for this kind of personnel solution. The next candidate, who pointed out from the "buldozer of the revolution" to the moment it occurred over Serbia, when you set fire to the Assembly and the RTS, to this day, has just proven itself, is Ms. Marija Draskovic. She, as a scientist, as a professor, published some books. I'm just going to take a few books out of her huge obsess. The first is "Transsexuality and Marriage." I don't know if there's anything educational here. There's certainly no SRS. The second is "Legal I", along with Stevan Lilic. This is where we get into trouble. Let me remind you, this Stevan Liliæ is that thief... (President: Mr. Markovic, please take care, I warn you in time. I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Stevan Liliæ is the intellectual who stole the dead Lazu M. Kostic, rebuked his administrative right and prescribed it from point to point. He thought the man - Laza Kostic died, there's no one left to defend him, no one even reads that administrative law, now administrative law, so no one will notice. However, Dr Vojislav Seselj found himself, so he says exactly what I just said, I quoted Dr Vojislav Seselj as saying: "The thief Stevan Lilić". (President: Mr. Markovic, really take care. ) Next, "Less II", along with Stevan Liliæ, again the same story. "The Right Patient - Open Society Fund." But they're company and they're open. "The Right Patient II", "The Right Patient III", and also the Open Society Fund. "A model of the Law on Medical Aided Birth - Open Society Fund and Bioethicals Centre". The sixth, "Law Clinic - Open Society Fund", "Madel of the Transsexual Act - Centre for Bioethics and the Open Society Fund". Given the science that Mrs Draskovic has elaborated on the world and our public, above all, and given that I know that it belongs to one of the political parties of the ruling option, I recommend that when Ms Draskovic is voted on, I press the red button.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10387	The People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10388	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the previous week, we held a principle debate on the draft law on the Constitutional Court. I think that the vast majority of MPs, both the professional public and the general public in Serbia understands the importance of such an important institution for the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court, by constitutional definition, is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. In the coming days, the National Assembly will discuss in particular, according to the amendments, which have been tabled in large numbers on the draft law on the Constitutional Court, and the current item of the agenda is the proposal of a candidate for the Constitutional Court to be delivered by the President of the Republic. I would remind you that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, delivered to the National Assembly a list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court on 14 June 2007, based his proposal on the provision of Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the president was primarily governed by the imperial norm of the Constitution, also in Article 172, which prescribes that the Constitutional Court judge is elected and appointed among prominent lawyers, with at least 40 years of life and 15 years of experience in the legal profession. The biographies of these ten candidates, who are ahead of us, if we carefully study them, if we read them carefully, qualify all ten candidates for such a responsible role as the Constitutional Court judge. By reading the biographies of these candidates, we can make sure that there are prominent rights theorists among them, and one significant number among them is so-called. They're practitioners. So we've got Supreme Court judges here, we've got prosecutors, we've got law professors. I will refer to one of the remarks that one of the fellow MPs made during today's debate, that none of these or most of them have passed a judicial exam. So let's read the biographies carefully and we'll find out that out of the ten candidates proposed, seven candidates have passed the judicial exam, and three candidates are professors of law school, who necessarily don't have to have a judicial exam, nor is a conditio son qua non in itself to be a prominent lawyer. But I'm saying, there are seven candidates with a legal exam. As for the second remark, also highlighted by one fellow MP, that we are choosing pensioners in the Constitutional Court, the finding is not correct. I say, let's read again and carefully the biography, let's read the years of the birth of judges, and we'll see that most of them have a condition that in the next nine years, as the Constitution requires, this function can be performed. I don't have to read the names of the candidates, but I will say that the years are the following: 1961, 1962, 1953, 1953, 1946, 1953, 1950, 1955, 1948 and 1954. Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic handled his constitutional powers and his constitutional obligations and sent a list of ten candidates to the National Assembly. The DS will, following the end of the debate on this agenda, and before the day of voting, very analyticalally approach the election of five of the ten proposed candidates, and I further point out that the references these candidates have satisfy both the constitutional norm and the intensity of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court makes up people who are proven in the profession and who will carry out their work effectively and professionally. Many of these candidates have a number of scientific papers, a number of professional papers, and most of these candidates have a great practical experience, and I want to repeat that once again, we will have such a constitutional court structure where they will sit and people who have practically worked either as judges, or as prosecutors, or as Supreme Court judges, or as judges of the Constitutional Court, both from this list proposed by the President of the Republic and from the list of candidates that the National Assembly will deliver to the President of the Republic. So between these 10 quality candidates, the DS will be defined as the top five and will vote for them, and thus we will meet our constitutional obligation, as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10389	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we now have on the agenda the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and from the list proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia. We, as MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of two members of the Constitution, have the authority and the obligation to do this job. Interestingly, one of the MPs said that there was more political debate here, so in his discussion he almost disputed the right of MPs to make decisions concerning the election law of the National Assembly, which was regulated by Article 99, where, among other things, paragraph 2 said that, in the context of their election rights, the National Assembly was electing and resolving judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court for the SRS is always very important and one of the perhaps most important topics that we should discuss in the National Assembly, and so are the provisions of the Constitution. I remind you that the Constitutional Court in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has 10 members. In order to understand the strength, importance and importance of this Constitutional Court should have a comparison with some institutions in which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia treats and how many provisions: the President of the Republic – 11 members are dedicated, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia by 13, Protector of Citizens one and the Serbian Army three. Of course, all these institutions need to be passed specific laws and I hope that in this session we will have a law on the National Assembly, since we have failed on many occasions so far. Indeed, what Mr Dragan Todorovic, an SRS MP, was talking about, the DS MPs tried to deceive the public and indicate that the SRS is not for the choice of the Constitutional Court. We pointed to this constantly, although some other MPs joined us, and that is necessary and mandatory. However, the way this happened today in front of the MPs indicates that the motioner did not take this problem seriously, that is, the choice of the Constitutional Court. How and in what way? Is there anything more logical than for a representative of this list, which is the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, to be here when we consider his proposal. Then Bosko Ristic tried to explain that the president of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly have the same rights and that it does not matter and should not be here. I think it was supposed to be here, give one meaning and a tone of importance to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. I will just remind you that in the previous term of office of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic of Serbia has proposed three candidates, and for some of these three candidates were not even voted by DS MPs, which indicates that he had no serious intention of electing the Constitutional Court judges, because if he did, he would propose candidates for whom at least DS MPs would vote. It was not right for him to choose the Constitutional Court, for from the day before today, there would certainly not have been, if we had had a Constitutional Court, which was to protect the rights of the citizens, among other things. We, when conducting activities on the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, have indicated that it is not the best way to choose judges in this way. We now have three subjects who make choices or three institutions, really very important, who make the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Since it is foreseen in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court that some dilemmas and some unknowns will be resolved, I doubt that the judges of the Constitutional Court, so 15, when all of them are elected, may be provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court, and he is variable, will be able to change multiple times during the term of office of Judges of the Constitutional Court – and to say the judges of the Constitutional Court elected by the President of the Republic, and we are most important, we are proposed by the President of the Republic. You know that the SRS had the desire and the need to bring and adopt the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to protect Kosovo and Metohija, and then we gave up on these intentions, that is, our view of how this problem should be solved. And maybe it's true that we haven't voted for many laws, but for that, until they change, that they are respected and that we are respected and this is how judges of the Constitutional Court are chosen. Mr Batic has been arguing here and it has been said from some that he has several candidates who are due to retire in a year. I can't fully join the criticism of that choice. I find it a little embarrassing that Mr Batic is not there, that, as a graduate lawyer, a doctor of law, and for many fellow graduate lawyers, the greatest achievement would be that his career as a graduate of law, as judges of the Constitutional Court. That wouldn't be some big problem if it wasn't for what I could find out, if it wasn't for something else. In the National Strategy for Home Justice Reform, there is also a secretariat for implementation of the strategy, and then various committees have been formed, and the report of these committees says that the constitutional preparations of our judges, according to judges of regular courts, are carried out by some US institutions. Imagine, the court preparations for the judges, that they won't be your football players? What's that about? Until they are able and prepared enough, some experts who may now be on these constitutional preparations, who should be judges of the Constitutional Court, are therefore consciously going to propose those who will retire in a year or maybe two. I don't divide experts by age but really by what they know and know how to do, but here I'm afraid the danger doesn't come from there. We also heard from one MP that he said, not the final list of the 10 proposed by the National Assembly to the president of the Republic of Serbia, but that each of the 250 MPs could have their own candidate, one candidate at a time. And then we wonder why not two or more. It doesn't matter either. Why did you not propose more than 10, but it is exactly one political, or trade agreement, as Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic told us at the end of his presentation. We've heard, too, what's characteristic of these candidates that we have a geographical so-called. branded candidates, unprofessional, party, immoral, we have everything but professional and those who would safely do their job as Judge of the Constitutional Court. Very often, some MPs from the Democratic Party, before all, because others did not even discuss, pointed out what is said in Article 166. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Constitutional Court is an independent, independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. That is true, it is a provision of the Constitution, and these candidates on this list, who are on the list proposed by the Assembly according to the president of the Republic of Serbia, really do not guarantee that this will be the case. One of the speakers said, "The state of chaos is right for some, and therefore you are opposed to the choice of the Constitutional Court." He thought, of course, of the MPs of the SRS and he acknowledged, and he supports this government, that there is chaos in Serbia. We do not think that the chaotic state, we think that many institutions do not work responsibly, do not do their work well enough, but to us from the SRS and how the Constitutional Court corresponds, and we want it to be formed as soon as possible, i.e. to choose, but the real Constitutional Court. From the candidate's biography, or two candidates, I'm just going to read one piece so you can understand, what I was talking about about the legal preparations of the judges, that I'm absolutely right. One of the candidates, Predrag Cetkovic, in his life and work biography, says that he spent two weeks of professional training in Montreal during 2002, organised by the Association of Judges of Canada, and through the Belgrade Democracy Development Fund. It is the part that fully justifys my claim, i.e. suspicion and fear that the judges of the Constitutional Court will be appointed to us. Then, one of the candidates for the Constitutional Court Judge Dragisa Slepčević. I think he was more talked about than I am by my colleague Momir Markovic and some other SRS MPs, but you can see what's in his biography -- he's taking part in the work of the Board of Education of Judges of Trade Courts, hired as a lecturer at the postgraduate specialist courses of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade from the field of trade law and bankruptcy. Already, MP Todorovic said this is not a constitutional but commercial court and that the president of the Republic of Serbia is reaching out to the president of the court, and then the answer is quite clear to that part. The Constitutional Court here is also told by the Resistance. It is not good when the Resistance speaks of the Constitutional Court, nor when it criticises it, nor when it praises it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10391	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10392	Mr. Albianic, you're the chairman. I'm referring to Article 136.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10393	You've called before noon, I understand. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10394	May I, Mr. Albianic? What's this about? This debate has become really pointless. No one went out to defend these candidates. This is no way to argue. Several MPs from the Democratic Party came out, and here they explained more about how to make a list. We know how to make a list, but commend one of your candidates. Is it possible for you to be ashamed of such candidates? I get the impression based on this behavior today that the DSS doesn't want to catch these topics, New Serbia doesn't want to catch these topics, the G17 plus is in ruins, there's none.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10395	Please take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10396	There's one, I'm sorry, there's another one. Now every debate is pointless here. I get the impression that here, practically as the biggest insult a man could experience in his profession, is that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic is proposing him as judge of the Constitutional Court. That's how this debate works out. At first I told you what the script was, no one denied me, that the second and third points were tied to the store, etc. I'm just surprised you revolutionaries don't want to defend candidate Maria Draskovic. Here's what Professor Marko Mladenovic wrote to Law School. The man hired this lady, he had an assistant, and he wrote songs about her like she was, and so on. He says like this-- she waited for ours to come, they're yours. Eleven signatories from our group asked for lustration, so they lustrated this professor. It's now what's honest, honest, moral. I'll give you what the professor wrote, so you can get to know each other, but I think that's what Boris Tadic has to do with it. Please, to make this debate constructive, to compare the argument here, because this turns out to be an SRS monologue, to compare the documentation, so that the public realizes how good the quality of the personnel proposed by Boris Tadic, come out and defend these candidates, say a nice word for them. Your silence confirms everything we say. Mr. Albianic, I invite you to give them a warning when MPs from those parliamentary groups who are in power, to warn them, if they come from the dead, you will give them a warning. Let them give some commendable word to these candidates. If you don't give a commendable word, then it really turns out that the greatest shame is to someone who has been proposed by the President of the Republic to judge the Constitutional Court. I'm not talking about Boris Tadic, but I'm talking about the role of the president of the Republic, a completely different dimension, to let you know, Mr. Albianic. Please take this session properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10397	The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic, and then a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if you compare the Constitutional Court bill and the choice of judges for the Constitutional Court, we are far from the European Union, we are far from the European Community, we are far from democracy, we are far from the principles that should be respected, laid down and respected when considering criteria for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. This procedure is very complicated in Serbia with this proposal, and I will remind you of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany. In Article 94, it is prescribed and normised that Germany elects judges of the Constitutional Court by selecting one half of the Bundestag, and the other half is elected by the Bundesrat. Look what we've got. It is with us that one half is proposed by the President of the Republic, the other half is proposed by the National Assembly, five candidates for the Constitutional Court are proposed by the Court of Cassation, and the Court of Cassation is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, as things stand, I must tell you, and let the citizens of Serbia, this is not a debate on the Constitutional Court and the election of judges, this looks like a moat for the Serbian constitutional judiciary, because our judiciary has been thrown into the political arena. The professional public and our citizens believe that Serbia's judiciary has never been in a more catastrophic situation than it is today. The main issue of this time is who will be subject to control of the law, both in the legislative and constitutional government. When you look at the proposed candidates and analyze their biographies, and reach their professional and moral qualities, you will not conclude, nor will you be able to confirm, if she is - that the wisest bring and create the right, and the bravest and most professional apply the right, it is not in our particular case. I ask a question in front of the SRS and its MPs - when will the Constitutional Court begin to function and when will the Constitutional Court stop being a servant of political parties in power? If the political parties had the intention and desire in power, they could have passed the Constitutional Court law a year and two days ago, elected judges, elected judges, served the court and would not have more than a thousand pending cases before the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of judges scheduled is 15. Decisions are made unanimously. Only one if there is no decision missing, and Serbian citizens will not be able to exercise their rights because of such wrong laws, without respecting the circumstances in which Serbia is located and in which the judiciary is located. Let me remind you, if you have a thousand pending cases, and you only have 15 judges, and this new law and a constitutional appeal are foreseen, thousands of constitutional appeals will begin on the day of the entry into force of the Constitutional Court law. That court and these people will be overcrowded, they won't be able to cope and there's no efficiency, there's no economics of that court. The constitution, as a basis and basic law, provides for the constitutional category of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The balance between state power and constitutional restrictions must be regulated by the Constitutional Court Act. These restrictions, ladies and gentlemen, must be effective, as would protect individual freedom of citizens and deny state authority what belongs to the citizens. This must be achieved in the final instance before the Constitutional Court. What does it look like in practice? That's not going to come back to life with us in practice. Our Justice – from the Judge for Infractions i.e. The Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Commercial Court, is politicized. The judges are setting up political parties. They rule as being dictated by political parties in power. It is unfortunate and it is devastating for democracy in our country, and also for the functioning of the entire judicial system as a branch of the legal authority. I will remind you, a striking example of seeking this delicate balance between state power and constitutional constraints, ladies and gentlemen, is Hamilton's justification for the great, far-reaching powers of the American President under the 1787 Constitution. What does that mean in practice translated into us? The party in power shall have unlimited powers to give directives and guidelines and to influence the decision-making process. In the SRS' view, the Constitutional Court must be a legitimate institution of freedom. This draft law on the Constitutional Court and the choice of judges, in our opinion, is the law and way of choosing judges by order, as suit according to the customer's wishes is sewn, which in turn can pay for something. Under the proposal of this law, it is obvious that it is an apparent independence of the Constitutional Court. No party in power and no one in this country can convince, or convince, that there is no influence of parties in power in the Constitutional Court and that it will not be. It will be done by the Constitutional Court by order of the current authority and not otherwise. We Serbian radicals believe it is necessary at this time and these circumstances to ensure full independence and impartiality of the Constitutional Court. Something relating to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges, and I will also try to explain to you ladies and gentlemen, in short, if you allow me, what this independence looks like and what the impact of certain factors on the independence and impartiality of our judiciary. It is necessary to distinguish the threat of judicial independence through these so-called so-called so-called independence. intervention, i.e. interventions that come from members of the political and economic summit, by interventions by private persons that threaten the bias, i.e. the impartiality of courts. Of course, sometimes it is very difficult to distinguish these two types of interventions, since there are cases to intervene privately, but from the position of social power. In fact, all those so-called. "official interventions" have begun to be conducted in practice as private, opening doors and those much more harmful divisions in court. They often intervene, alongside these subjects, and friends, relatives, neighbors, countrymen of interested judicial parties. That there are interventions in courts and judges, I'll try briefly. As institutions in the decision-making process, many of which are then made, are reportedly moving within the framework of the law, but are in some way different than being made without intervention. Secondly, there are private interventions, but there are also interventions by a person in certain political and state functions. Third, there are interventions that come through the abuse of certain officials, party, business, administrative and administrative, far more dangerous and harmful to the functioning of the entire judiciary than those that come from acquaintances, relatives, and private persons, although both relatives and private persons who intervene and how dangerous. Anonymous powers that intervene, or pressure on judges, can do so, or have freed hands, precisely thanks to the fact that the court seat is re-election and that judges are therefore existentially dependent on judicial structures. When judges refuse to follow such instructions, which come from extrajudicial structures, there may be and there are various irregularities in court and service, especially in the election of judges. Sometimes it doesn't intervene openly in terms of pressure, but in terms of consultation. Look out, please, what kind of pressure is being put on and how. It is said that the suggestion is given, which is less drastic, but no less harmful way of limiting the independence of courts in making decisions. Since time is not working out for me, and our colleagues from the SRS are supposed to be involved in the debate, I would just ask one question about a court case, and I would like to present one piece of information. The business court in Belgrade on 30.6.1998 received an appeal from Anvel, and the defendant was "Peka ib engineering" d.d.s. based in Belgrade, the value of the dispute is $124.864,81 and 11.502 marks. He was a judge in a trade court who acted in this case, Vladimir Kozar. The damage in this case is Ljubomir Andonovski, based in Sofia. How is it that our country does not respect and respect judicial proceedings and damages that appear before our courts abroad, specifically from Bulgaria? Vladimir Kozar has repeatedly ruled that it suits him. The verdict is lifted three or four times. Bank executives and a well-known judge, the famous Delinka Djurdjevic, is taking part in the process, which is covered by the investigation with that bankruptcy mafia. What's going on now? A citizen, therefore, from Sofia to a court of trade in Belgrade and before the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade cannot exercise his rights thanks to the ineffectiveness, intricacies, incompetence and abuse of judges of the Trade Court in Belgrade and individuals in the Higher Trade Court. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have such a situation, and I am telling you, many judges do their unprofessional and inefficient work, and also because of corruption, they do great damage to fair judges and honest prosecutors, honest experts working in our judiciary. That is why re-election and judges and prosecutors should be joined as quickly as possible, and the number of people who have restricted to corruption and who is unprofessional and unskilled, so that they no longer howl at black poverty by their wrong decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10399	The remaining time of the SRS is five minutes. The People's MP Rajko Baralic reported on the words of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10400	Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I would like to quote the full member and ask that time be stopped: ''The National MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities on which he is headed, and which he needs in order to carry out the functions of the MP. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10401	Mr. Baralic, just one moment and I'll give you your time back. Let me say a word. We have agreed, and in principle and formally put an end to the agenda for parliamentary matters, from the work of getting information for the MPs. But I will allow you and now I will give you back your initial time, because I don't know what this is about, but I ask all Members of Parliament not to use the Rules of Procedure for the purpose of asking the relevant questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10402	It's two questions, both urgent and their delay can produce consequences, so that's the point. Mr. Albianic, out of a sense of responsibility to the state and the people, I must ask immediately. Could at the head of a health institution, called Ribarska Banja Special Hospital, be Dr Branislav Katancevic, who in this way, Mr. Vice President, is the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, disfigured by the former worker, Mr. Miletic Dragomir, who is the SPS committee member in Krusevec. This man's scheduled for surgery tomorrow. He's very badly injured. He's 78 years old. He's a former Special Hospital worker at the Fisherbait. Katančević, Dr Branislav, is a DS committee in Krusevec and vice-president of the DS Municipal Committee in Krusevec. He is a nominated candidate for municipality president in Kraševec. I'm not mean and I'm not mean. A proper legal procedure has been initiated regarding what is said to be a disturbance in public order and peace. But please, it can't be the head of a health institution, so it can't be according to the consent and approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Health, a man who, even if he's right, deals with the elderly. That's not possible. That's not allowed. We expect the Minister of Health, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do whatever is necessary that this man cannot do this job. That's the first thing. Another thing, on whose orders and whose interest Mr Bozidar Djelic has launched an initiative to lift the moratorium to build nuclear power plants in Serbia. I remind you, there's been a moratorium in this country for 20 years to build nukes. The question is not known by the Energy Minister, Mr Aleksandar Popovic, who previously served as Minister of Ecology. Also, I would like to say that by chance or not this statement by Mr Djelic coincides with the attitude of Westinghouse, the world's largest nuclear equipment supplier or one of the largest, that it is impossible for countries that have an energy threat, which is allegedly the Republic of Serbia, to no longer have the luxury of having a moratorium to build a nuke. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a position on this, whether it has authorised Mr Djelic to state this and whether this is possible without debate in the government's competent committees, in the relevant committees of the Republic of Serbia and in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10403	Thank you. Please, MPs, we have today had a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, we have agreed that in principle these and other issues will be left for the end of the debate, between half six and six, when they are not related to the topic of debate, and this is not about the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. So I ask the MPs to simply respect it. Between half past six and six you can ask these and similar questions, that was the deal today. Please respect that. Let's get back to the debate. The same goes for Mr. Milivojevic. I assume you've reached out to this subject. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few sentences about candidates for the Constitutional Court of Serbia, I must first refer to what Mr Srdjan Milivojevic said about Slobodan Jovanovic. Mr. Milivojevic, Slobodan Jovanovic was born in 1869 and did not start a career as a university professor, but was a judicial intern at the Court of Appeal in Smederev and, as far as I know, passed an exam that is adequate to what is today called a judicial exam, so that your findings are not correct. However, I understand why you do not understand the character and work of Slobodan Jovanovic. Slobodan Jovanovic was a well-known Serbian nationalist during 1942 and 1943, as head of the immigrant government in London, deputy military general Draža Mihailovic. First of all, he was violated, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9(1). Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, this article was prescribed when the National Assembly was scheduled to discuss candidates for the Constitutional Court judges and to pass a law on the Constitutional Court. That Article 9 says this choice, or appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court, will be carried out no later than the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly. This is, if I'm not mistaken, the third session of the Second Regular Session and it's obvious that the Constitutional Law has been violated. If politicians from the ruling coalition had political morality, if they felt a sense of political responsibility, then someone at least would have to resign, that is, to bear responsibility, even politically, because the constitutional law was violated. Here, above all, I am referring to the president of the National Assembly and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, who is not on time, within the deadline prescribed by the Constitutional Law, submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a candidate for Serbian Constitutional Court judges. As far as the candidate's proposal is concerned, what falls into the eyes at the very beginning is that the candidate's proposal has one single page and there is only one single line of reasoning on the candidates proposed. The sentence is - I believe that the proposed candidates possess professional and personal qualities, based on which they can perform the function I have proposed them to, and nothing else. Then we can gain some impression of these professional and personal qualities of the proposed candidates only on the basis of the biographies they have contributed to their candidacy. As far as the biography itself is concerned, most of these biographies are written very amateurally, unprofessionally, and approximately a good part of these biographies could not even pass even on to students in elementary school, style, language, etc. Nenad Trifunovic, a candidate for office of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, says, beware of the sentence -- according to nationality, I am a Serb citizen of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, without a score, without anything, says -- a Serb citizen of the Republic of Serbia. This looks like a new nation. Then he says what he recommends to that function, pay attention now -- my father was a longtime municipal and circuit official. This is an important recommendation for someone to become judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia in 2007. Keep an eye on -- as deputy district attorney representing the prosecution of the most serious crimes, primarily terrorism, and since 1999, war crimes cases committed in Kosovo and Metohija, by members of the reserve group, beware now, the armies of Serbia-Montenegro. The man was a deputy district attorney in 1999, and then there was an SRJ, and he allegedly filed charges against members of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. There was no such army at the time. Otherwise, it is obvious that this proposed candidate has little to do with constitutional law and the procedure before the Constitutional Court. Then, Mr. Predrag Cetkovic, I don't want to talk about a man, I don't know him personally, but his biography shows that a man also has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court, nor has he ever worked professionally on a job that would have anything to do with the procedure before the Constitutional Court. Then, Professor Milan Vlatkovic's biography. I have to say it may be degutant to talk about people we don't know personally, but since biography is the only way to get to know these qualities, then I have no choice. A man was born in 1946 in Josani in Lica, he graduated Law School in 1968, then there was the "Praška Spring" etc., and he doctored, imagine, only in 2004, at the Business Academy in Novi Sad from the area of local self-government. What does an institution called the Business Academy with local self-government now have to do with how such an institution can obtain a doctorate in the field of legal science, is not clear to me. Further, Dragisa Slepčević, my colleagues said that he performed his duty honorably, but beware, a man graduated from college in 1978 and now gained a title again that I did not understand. He says he is a master of legal and economic science. He's either a magistrate of law or he's a master of economic science, because someone can't be a master of both legal and economic sciences. Such science does not exist, nor can the scientific title of the Master of Legal and Economic Sciences be acquired at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10405	Mr. Martinovic, time for your assembly club is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10406	I'm sorry, but in any case, biography isn't encouraging, and it leads us to a decision that we simply can't vote for such candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10407	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 27 and 200. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Mr. President, I think the proposal of these agenda points and the debate on them is premature. Why? Because first it was to be passed a law on the Constitutional Court, declared by the President of the Republic, published in "The Official Messenger", and then it was only then possible to move to a debate on candidates and the choice of candidates. Simply, easily and simply, because each of these points of the agenda and its voting can be the subject of a rope or rope overrun, it happened a few days ago, because we don't know where and in which direction trade between parties of the ruling coalition will take place, so this law can happen and it won't be passed. So, prematurely. Secondly, Minister of Justice, Mr. Petrovic, I have asked a question that he has not given me an answer -- is it accurate that the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, has been receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court for 13 months now? How, why, on what basis and is it true that this salary is about 230 thousand dinars? I asked him a question: what about the employees of the judiciary, who again have salaries between 9,000 and 17,000 dinars, and today they strike? Today, no hearing has been held anywhere and the situation is slowly becoming chaotic and anarchic. There's no answer. During that time, I am taking the opportunity to ask the President of the Administrative Committee, Mr Dragan Todorovic, on the basis of what we have in the daily press - is it true that there have not been reports delivered to the Committee on the earnings of the Director of the Public Service of RTS, director of the BIA, director of the Roads Company, what are these salaries, how will we, when we find out, at a time when the employees of the judiciary, as second-class citizens, receive something that is at the level of social assistance? It is necessary, therefore, to get answers to these questions. I would suggest that my colleagues read to Ratkovic the dates of birth and the dates of the establishment of work relations between individual candidates, so they will see that only three of them can be at the place of the Constitutional Court judge all nine years, as provided by law. We don't need much math here. There's an MP club here in the Assembly that deals with millions and billions, and this is the language of small numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10409	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want the word. Rules of Procedure. The word is held by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, as an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary club. You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10410	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will use the time that belongs to my MP group to give a few impressions that we have all gained on the basis of today's discussions, namely the presentation of fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. When we started a debate this morning concerning the election of the Constitutional Court judges from President Tadic's list, the first speaker was an authorised representative of the LDP. There was no representative of the promoter. We can ask ourselves whether it is the ignoring of the National Assembly and the MPs and whether it is the result of a political agreement behind the appointment towers, or the election of the Constitutional Court judges. Then, one of the MPs of the ruling coalition, or someone who supports the motion, spoke about the biographies of the proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, noting that there are no stains in these biographies and that everyone deserves to be judges of the Constitutional Court. I'll add that this is not just about biography, but we insist that we think a little bit about the procedure. The procedure, apart from the representatives of the opposition parties, no one spoke, i.e. We didn't get any information on who proposed these candidates to the president, from which the lists were proposed, on the basis of which criteria anyone had given the expert court on this. We didn't have a court of law on that. So it once again points to some kind of political dilemma that was done behind the political scenes of this congregation. One MP also said that a judicial exam, i.e. a doctorate of legal science, is not necessary for someone to be a judge of the Constitutional Court, but rather for a judge of the Constitutional Court, some broader knowledge is understood. Yeah, my colleague was right. For the judges of the Constitutional Court, there is some broader knowledge, but that broader knowledge can only be an upgrade, a judicial exam or a doctorate of legal science. Let me remind you, that someone would be a professor of law school, must first be a doctor of legal science. So these broader knowledge can only be an upgrade to what is basic legal education, so that someone can be the judge of any court, the professor of law school, or the judge of the Constitutional Court. To repeat once again, the people we're deciding today will have huge powers. These are people who will be able to place in their responsibilities two-thirds of the majority as far as legality and constitutionality are concerned. These are people who will have the right to decide on the resolution of the President of the Republic. To remind you, without the Constitutional Court's decision, there is no procedure before the National Assembly. Therefore, the Constitutional Court's decision is a condition in order to end the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic. Not to count further, such as the power to abolish political parties, etc. It is a rather irresponsible approach to this kind of appointment, namely the election of judges of the Constitutional Court, bodies that have such powers. This only means that this is the way the Constitutional Court judges are appointed and that the list is only the tip of the iceberg, behind which is the political trade of authorities. It is the only possible outcome of political trade, which has been brought down by the Antinomic Constitution, the Constitutional Court and the empty Constitutional Court law. Of course, on the basis of all of this, it can be concluded that behind the scenes of this trade is a powerless government that does not want elections, which wants absolute control of everything that exists in the state, and the weapon in its hands to achieve this kind of control will be, among other things, the Constitutional Court. The very powers of the Constitutional Court and the way the Constitutional Court will be established speak unequivocally in favour of what I have now stated. We also heard here that the state will serve its citizens. The current constitution, the current legislation, the coming laws, to mention only the content of the Constitutional Court Bill, the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic and the content of the Bill on Elections for the President of the Republic, say that this state will not be a service of citizens, but will be the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's inadmissible for a serious state. The content of all these acts speaks unequivocally of any kind of favoration of the government, or the institution of the executive authority. Part of what I have prepared for the current address will be said when I address the election of candidates proposed by the National Assembly to the President of the Republic, and that will be only the second half of the tip of the iceberg that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10411	I'm finishing the search. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – CONCERNING THE CANDATE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE NAMED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC You have received a proposal for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic, as well as corrections in the proposed list. You have reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee and the biography of the proposed candidates for Judges of the Constitutional Court. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a search. Let me take a word for this list.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10412	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10413	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court that the Assembly should propose and from which the President of the Republic should elect five candidates. In this address, I wanted first of all to look back at the period that preceded today's session, which took several months, when there was the intention of putting this list together in a way that would be the proposals of the National Assembly behind which all the parliamentary groups would stand, that there would be people on the list for whom all political parties could stand, that none of them would be controversial about any of the political options that we represent, and all in order to form an institution that would be one of the first institutions in the future of this state that would not be controversial to anyone. That's what we need in Serbia in the future. Institutions that will not be controversial, that will do their job and that no one can cast any political doubt. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. The political scene in Serbia is not yet mature to reach a list of candidates behind which any parliamentary group can stand. I tried to organize the heads of Parliament in that way. I thank everyone for trying to get to that. There is great mistrust between us, and at this point, it is not possible to reach a list that would represent candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, who can do their job without the sign of the questionnaires placed on them by political parties. I am sorry about that, and I hope that in the future we will be able to establish institutions that will be the same as this state deserves, which are institutions that will not be controversial. This list is drawn up on a proposal from the parliamentary groups, and it is not a secret. MP groups, I assume, have given their best candidates. I am sure that each MP group believed that these people, by their own expertise, morals, experience, and knowledge, deserve to be on the National Assembly list and deserve to be judges of the Constitutional Court. I don't know these people personally. They are best spoken of by their biographies and I am confident of the good intentions of all those who participated in the process of proposing judges of the Constitutional Court in this way. We together last year, a year ago and a few days ago, brought a constitution behind which almost all the political options in this country were behind which most of our citizens eventually stood. The constitution defined the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in one complicated way. He defined the choice of the Constitutional Court judges in a way that was subsequently not defined by law. We met in a legal vacuum. We also had discussions in this assembly at the beginning of this session, or at the beginning of this session, whether or not the mandated speaker of this list could be President of the Assembly. I only hope that, in the future, above all, to the Rules of Procedure on Labour, we will define this important matter and draw a diagram of how judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected in the future when the election comes. Until then, I hope that these people will do their job honestly and honestly, that they will confirm the trust we need to give them these days and that they will certainly do everything to make the Constitutional Court grow into a serious institution of this state, which in the future will work to preserve the constitutionality and legality of the work of all of us and will finally stop the dilemmas we had in the past, and these are the dilemmas whether the constitutional law is respected in one way or another, whether elections should be called with or without the necessary laws, and all those dilemmas that we had in our political life in the past. Serbia will finally get the Constitutional Court and that is the most important. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I propose to adopt a list of the following candidates for the Constitutional Court judges: Olivera Vukic - Professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade Vesna Ilic-Prelic - State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Katarina Manojlović-Andrić - Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mihailo Rulic - Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia Dusko Celic - associate of the Faculty of Law at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, Prof. Dr Agnes Kartag-Odri - Professor of Law Faculty in Novi Sad, Zejnapa Kavrajić - Judge of the District Court in Novi Pazar, Dr Dragan M. Stojanović - Professor of the Faculty of Law in Nis, Prof. Dr. Vladan Kutlešić - Professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade and Professor at Megatrend University and Mr. Jadranka Injac - Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I invite you all to vote for this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10414	I thank the President of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10415	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, again Article 27, and it concerns your obligation, Mr. President, to respect the Constitution, and this respect of the Constitution assumes a constitutional category which is stated in the choice of the Constitutional Court judges - from the line of distinguished lawyers. Mr. President, your attempts at agreeing on a candidate for the Constitutional Court are not based anywhere in the Constitution or in the law. If you can deny me, let me know. Under what provision do the Constitution or the political party's laws propose candidates for the Constitutional Court judges? What were you supposed to do, Mr. President, at the level of the Constitutional Affairs Committee? To determine the criteria that qualify individual candidates to be candidates for the Constitutional Court judges by fulfilling that constitutional provision that they are from the ranks of prominent lawyers, and only when those criteria are established then to make one broad list of possible potential candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court. This way, Mr. President, and I'm telling you this as DHSS MP and former Justice Minister, it all came down to bidding. You said earlier that you hoped the MP groups had given their best candidates. That way, Mr. President, you have publicly announced that this will be a party court, not a constitutional court. Nowhere in the world political parties propose their candidates. Not to mention the practice in the world, that these are indeed the most prominent legal experts and people who are morally completely undefiled. Mr. President, the illustration works, on this list of candidates we have one member of the former Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Serbia. I'm not going to talk this time about potential pensioners, not the judicial exam, but really, if the Constitution had been respected and the effort had been made to establish criteria, we would now have a list of credible candidates. This is how it's all in that people's room. Give me what you give.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10417	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10418	Comrade Varg, I'm sorry, you called as head of the parliamentary group, right? That's why I'm calling right now. The mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group is one of the leading legal experts in our country, the prominent lawyer, Mr Zoran Krasic, well-known to the local and world public, especially because he is the chief adviser in the process led by the anti-Serbian UN tribunal against our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. It is not disputed for counterpart Krasic to take part as an authorised representative of 20 minutes, is no problem, and spoke in the morning about Boris Tadic's proposals along with us, as well as his colleague Varga. But you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Dulic, are now in a very awkward situation. Those who made you go out with this proposal betrayed you at the moment. These are Nada Kolundžija, Mr Milos Aligrudić, Mrs Grubjesic and possibly, if he was involved, colleague Ivica Dacic. You said earlier that you were some sort of transmission here from MP groups, that is to say the widest possible consensus that has been reached. You know she didn't want the SRS involved in all of this. We strongly object to any candidate being proposed by any political party. Therefore, it is clear from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that you, as president of the National Assembly, should be through the board of directors, or committees that you have called upon on the basis of our warning, since before that we have received only paper that meant nothing, the names of candidates without biography, without a proposal from the Committee, to do so as an authorised person by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure to present it to the National Assembly. You showed up at a time when we're starting with that agenda point, but you know, we're interested in where these real promoters are, those who stand by their integrity and their political parties behind those candidates. Because now I'm going to ask you in a row from first to last you, Mr. Dulic, are going to be able to fight in the chest and defend each of these candidates. One is Ivicin, the other is Maricin, not because of his colleague Dacic, but it is said otherwise, one of Suzanne, the other of Milos, lobbyed Hope for the third, so I mean, what does it look like. Where are those people? The presidents of the parliamentary groups, who participated in something she didn't want the SRS to participate in, and now they're not going to explain these candidacys, it's really pointless. We agreed this morning, since it is a business gap, because the Constitution was adopted last year, and the Rules of Procedure have been in force for many years, yes, when it comes to this list proposed by Boris Tadic, let us begin the debate without, in practice, an authorised promoter. We did it, we ended it. You are now an authorised promoter, but I don't see it at all in the O.R. because the camera is focused on only one part of the MPs present in the O.R., the presidents of the parliamentary groups. So will you be going out any minute for our remarks or comments about these proposed people? Then you'll really have to, but to know that your associates, coalition partners, the lady who's the president of your parliamentary group, have put her in a very awkward situation. You are now defending yourself as you know and know it, but it is truly an incredible absence of interest for the candidates they have proposed. People, isn't that illogical, that they're not in the O.R. and they haven't been following all day, like you, so you came from the cabinet, so you can't make it to the DS presidency session, but it doesn't matter, nothing there will matter to decide for the state or the people, maybe something about your functioning, but that there isn't all of these heads of Parliament groups, Mr. Varga, Mr. Krasic, Zoran Krasic and Mr. Pastor are just in the O.R., this is really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10419	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several MPs claimed during today's debate that both lists were ruling coalitions, party lists. Even some claimed they were DS lists. I would like to say behind this speaker that Professor Agnes Kartag-Odri is a candidate of the Hungarian community in the Republic of Serbia, supported by the Vojvodjan Group of MPs. Otherwise, it could not have happened that any member of the national minority was found on the lists of candidates of the ruling coalition. As for Mrs Agnes Kartag-Odri, she was born on July 7th 1951, in Choka, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad in 1975, as an assistant at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, was elected in 1977, and mastered in 1983 at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. The doctoral dissertation defended the 1990s at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. In 2003 she was elected professor at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad in the same year 1990, and she was appointed as an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. Besides working at the university, she was a journalist for a while. From 1995 to 2000, she worked as a senior scientific associate at the Institute for Criminal and Sociological Research in Belgrade. Later, from 2000 to 2002, she worked in the Federal Ministry of National and Ethnic Communities, in a portfolio for international co-operation, and was also engaged in the legislature of the same ministry. She was a member of the Yugoslav anti-trafficking team. Of course, she published a number of professional publications in Hungarian, Serbian and English. So, I think the professional and moral qualities of Mrs Agnes Cartag-Odri are indisputable. In addition, I am proud to say that she is a member of the national minority, a member of the Hungarian community, and she comes from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, she was born and lives in Vojvodina. We hope the President of the Republic will respect all our arguments and will appoint Mrs Agnes Kartag-Odri as Judge of the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, the choice of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is the best evidence from the past nine months of work of the National Assembly why it is important that authentic representatives of national minorities, as well as authentic representatives of Vojvodina, are represented in the Assembly. Namely, the list of candidates, as well as that of the President of the Republic, does not contain, of course, any member of the national minorities, nor the name of one person who was born and lives in the territory of Vojvodina. I would like once again to announce the fact that there are eight candidates from Belgrade on the Assembly list for another six. So, of the 20 candidates proposed, 14 lives in Belgrade right now. Unfortunately, no one from the DS Parliament Club came out for this pay phone and no one said the president of the Republic made a huge, catastrophic mistake when he proposed a list like this. Unfortunately, not even members of the national minorities sitting in the same assembly club, of course, nor the ambassadors from Vojvodina from the same club. Of course, we're used to it, we didn't expect it. The ruling coalition, first of all, acts as a well-studden voting machine in this National Assembly. I think the best evidence for these claims is the exposure of one MP from the DS. From her discussion, I'd like to quote a few things. So she claimed that, on the one hand, DS and its president defend national councils. The proposal for a Constitutional Court law removes one of the competences of national councils, which the national councils had before, which is the possibility of making a constitutional complaint. If national councils are defended in this way, then I don't know how to do something the opposite. She further claimed to defend all provisions of the Constitution concerning acquired rights. The possibility of making a constitutional complaint by the national councils is one right acquired. If constitutional provisions were to be defended by which the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced, then such a solution would not be written in the draft law on the Constitutional Court. On the third hand, she also said that the president of the Republic and the DS thanked members of national minorities by following the country's European orientation, offering European integration for national minorities. Of course, you would have to admit that even a little bit of what the President of the Republic is doing in the interest of integration, it's not, at least we hope, in the interests of the national minorities, but of the whole country. On the other hand, he's more than three and a half years president of the Republic, and I must say, in no case has he met the expectations of members of the national minorities. In fact, European integration, according to our assessment, is very slow to run. I want to repeat one more piece of information, according to which Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 1991, and we boast that Serbia has reached this point, or has not signed, just initialled in 2007. It should be added that these countries took another decade and a half to reach the EU. Of course, that should also be said to the citizens of Serbia, that they are likely to have a road ahead of them. Mrs Markovic also said that we should talk at the end of this debate and at the end of all elections and appointments on whether the Constitutional Court will be a picture of this country. We hope that the members of the national minorities will be elected to the Constitutional Court. But, of course, we have to tell this speaker that it's in no way thanks to the DS. This will not happen thanks to them, because if they had had such intentions, then some members of national minorities would have proposed on their list. Furthermore, DS MPs argue that the aim of the DS is for citizens of national minorities to feel in Serbia as a state that protects national minorities and here in the Assembly, both the president and their government. About this exposure, I'd like to do a dipression. Namely, 19. In September 2007, I asked Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic, the Minister of Agriculture, who asked me - what the government intends to do to remove the effects of the drought that has taken the situation of a natural disaster. He then said that within two or three weeks, the government would prepare a programme to mitigate the consequences of this elemental disaster. That was September 19th, I want to point out one more time. When it was one 40 days from that day, on October 30th of this year, farmers from the north of Vojvodina were forced to hold a protest. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not send a delegation to the agriculture ministry but to the gendarmes. I think it's astounding and it says a lot about the relationship between the government and, of course, the DS, who manages the Ministry of Agriculture, both towards the citizens and members of the national minorities. After all, last Thursday after the cabinet session, when I was called by farmers of the northern Vojvodina, I was also embarrassed as an opposition MP. Namely, if we had a government like this, which brings conclusions after 53 days, according to which the conclusions are damage to the territory of the northern Vojvodina 10 percent, I think it just all speaks to the way the government works. Of course, that is not true, since municipal damage assessment commissions estimated that the damage ranged between 50 and 60 percent, and in some parts the damage reached 90 percent. And after that, the same ministry proposed to the government some conclusions that accept this falsified information, according to which the damage amounts to 10 per cent in the territory of the northern Vojvodina. On the other hand, it has proposed such pointless measures that simply another word is not intended to be characterized as suitable. It proposed that the ministry examine the possibility of postponement, i.e. reprogramming debts, to consider the possibility of deferral of the debt due on the basis of the disposal fee, to prepare a proposal to exempt the agricultural tax in 2008 and 2009, to increase the funds for the regression of insurance, in 2008. Of course, in the end, this is most cynical, the ministry has proposed to the government that the Commission now proceeds to carry out the damage assessment procedure that took place in Serbia. I think these facts and data are good evidence of how much DS cares about areas where members of national minorities live, particularly areas and not only areas in Vojvodina, but also in other areas outside Belgrade. It happens, of course, that sometimes the government meets members of national minorities. Of course, in situations where the government is so uncomfortable, it's practically forced. Unfortunately, I must finally say that what I said is, unfortunately, facts. So, I've done this process with the intention of calling on the ruling coalition and calling on the President of the Republic to meet national minorities this time and to find at least one member of the national minorities among the 10 judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10421	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic reported. If there is no further notification by the Rules of Procedure, the next word will be given by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, as an authorised representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm using Article 225 and 226 to win and give notice to the MPs. First of all, I don't see any reason why this place is covered by the veil of secrets who are proposing these ten names. The National Assembly should propose 10 candidates for Serbian Constitutional Court judges on the list, from where the president of the Republic will choose five. That's a fact. The second fact, even the Constitutional Court law did not provide for the choice of the candidate for the Constitutional Court. That's what we pointed out in the debate, but our power is not to change it but to the majority. The Rules of Procedure didn't regulate that matter. There's a deal left between the parliamentary groups. Whatever list was found on the Assembly agenda, one of the parliamentary groups is a promoter and there is no reason to hide it. The SPS parliamentary group respected the agreement to participate in proposing candidates, not their own, but experts for candidates for Serbian Constitutional Court judges. There's no secret. She did so and proposed two candidates, whose professional qualifications, in fact, had run for the post. Professor Vladan Kutlešić, and he is otherwise a professor at Megatrend University, an expert in constitutional law. Please, let me put it publicly, it's not hidden here, it's a member of the CK SKS, it's an advantage, it's a flaw, it depends on how anyone looks and from what angle. But until yesterday, you had the President of the Constitutional Court who was also a member of the CK SKS. The second candidate is Jadranka Injac, judge of Serbia's Supreme Court. They meet all the conditions laid down in the Constitution and the Constitutional Court law, and those aged and working, and meet the conditions and are not members of political parties. The SPS parliamentary group isn't hiding it. On the contrary, he is behind this proposal until the end. I don't see any reason not to tell anyone who suggested them. Is that a secret that big? We know that we've entered a story where there's a possibility of being played by the ruling majority, but it's not playing us, it's playing politics, it's playing democracy. And with the Council of State Auditory Institutions, it was the same. We also proposed an expert who did not pass through the ruling majority's will. So I won't answer again, please, just a minute. We have proposed a member of the Council, also as a parliamentary group, the National Bank of Serbia. The ruling majority played it. Our responsibility, as the SPS parliamentary groups, is to participate in the proposal and help the Assembly come out with a proposal for candidates, because the SPS is not an opposition to the state but to this government. If it's played by the ruling majority, then it's her irresponsibility. The SPS parliamentary group made it clear that she was involved in the proposal, she made it clear to you what the two candidates were and who was behind these proposals. Please let everyone else say other suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10423	Thank you very much. What I suggest: the debate has started on this subject, so call for discussion, now you will answer and then you will defend the candidates, Mr Krasic and Mr Rangelovic are waiting. They can also report to discuss the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's take this in a row. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, then MP Zoran Krasic and then you, Mr Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10424	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, a good part of the matter concerning the list of candidates required by the National Assembly to propose to the President of the Republic is exhausted in the discussion, namely in the debate concerning the list of candidates proposed by the President of the National Assembly, so I will not take too much time and I will try not to repeat what has already been said. I'll say a few things about some previous questions. Let the attention be turned, let them not be mentioned. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Law is not respected in the accession and submission of the Constitutional Court Act, as well as in the accession of the procedure for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. For this disregard for the constitutional law, and it is also a source of constitutional law, and disrespect for the constitutional law means disrespect for the Constitution, no one in this country has shouldered responsibility. The next question before is the procedure. Perhaps volunteering can be applied when first called Constitutional Court Judges, because this is referred to by the Constitutional Law, and the Constitutional Court law is not yet available. However, the text of the Constitutional Court Act, or the Constitutional Court Act, shows that the legislator did not bother to establish the procedure by this law. So, in the next appointment, that is, in the next election of the Constitutional Court judges will be volunteering, there will be a javelin, there will be irresponsibility. The legislator did not bother to establish the procedure for electing the Constitutional Court judges, but he did his best to favour the government wherever he could. Wherever possible, we will see this from the next laws that we will discuss, such as the law on the president, the law on the election of presidents, etc., direct provisions of the Constitution favouring the Government, and where the Government is not favored, were then approached when the law was written. In particular, one example is to ensure the execution of the decision. Article 171 The Constitution does not mention anywhere that the Government will deal with the execution, that the Government will be entrusted with the execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court, and the draft law on the Constitutional Court and how these powers are given to the Government. As for the procedure, I'd like to say a few things about determining the proposal we're discussing today. We first received a note containing 10 names, no biographies and no basic data to be reported by the MPs. Then it is forcefully ensured to meet the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to discuss this issue on the committee. What was on the Constitutional Affairs Committee? Those who attended that session know. Before the start of the session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, we received biographies of the candidates mentioned. We didn't have time to get to know them. From what we have seen, we have seen who is proposing the part of the candidate, because with the proposal and the biography of the candidates, there has also been a proposal for an appropriate party, i.e. an appropriate parliamentary group. In order for Mr Aligrudić, I am sorry that he is not here tonight, under pressure, to say that the biographies, which are otherwise in some strange way inferred and incomplete, are actually a proposal from the DSS, and that they are so because they are written right before the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On that committee, as someone who represented the LDP parliamentary group, as far as I arrived, I looked at the biographies, and I ran into Mr. Dusko Celic's biography. I don't know him personally, maybe he's a really good lawyer, maybe in a small finger he has everything that the rest of us who deal with legal sciences don't even have in our head, but this biography shows that he simply doesn't meet what the Constitution provides as a criteria for choosing a judge of the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you, Article 172. The Constitution says - the Constitutional Court judge is elected and appointed among prominent lawyers, with at least 40 years of life and 15 years of experience in the legal profession. So, among prominent lawyers. The gentleman in question is an assistant intern, without a master's degree at the Faculty of Law in Kosovo Mitrovica and has not passed a judicial exam. I've made a point, given the circumstances, I've arrived only to take a look at his biography, I've asked that the bios in question be completed, and that after that, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs declares itself about them. I didn't get an answer, it was just a motion put to the vote. The Constitutional Affairs Committee adopted such a list and reached a conclusion - candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, proposed by the National Assembly of the National Assembly, meet the conditions set out in Article 172(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be proposed on the list of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court established by the National Assembly. Is it sufficient to have only a congregation majority, so in such a brutal way to oppose arguments? I'll remind you that once someone in this House said many years ago -- give me 126 MPs, I'll declare the country a cube, not a round one. In the end, I would like to repeat once again what I was talking about in my list presentation proposed by President Tadic to the National Assembly. We must have a lot of respect and caution when electing the Constitutional Court judges and when establishing a Constitutional Court, because it is one body with powerful powers, and according to the text of the Constitution and the text of the Constitutional Court Bill, we can see what the Government can do with the Constitutional Court. A brief reminder, by a two-thirds majority, either self-initiatively or on a proposal by the state prosecutor, or a proposal by the public prosecutor, proposed by the government, can be initiated by a procedure to ban the political party. If we remind you that Article 4. The Constitutional Court bill allows for representatives of the party concerned to be completely excluded from the process by prohibiting them from seeing the files, we see in what kind of brutal way the ruling majority can lift one political party. I'll leave the remaining 10 minutes for the final hearing after the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10425	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10426	Mr. Dulic, again, your Democratic Party mensively deceived you. I don't know where you got your courage, you probably saw it from that Predrag Markovic, that you're taking on such a degree of responsibility for constitutional and legal chaos in the state. What's this about? You've scheduled the Constitutional Affairs Committee, you've reached one conclusion, you've proposed formal-legal candidates, the Constitutional Affairs Committee has determined that all older than 40 years, that they are graduate lawyers, that they are prominent and that they have more than 15 years of working experience in the profession. Again, for who knows which time, someone cheated on you. And then, during the debate on the previous agenda and now, we had the opportunity to hear that up to these 10 candidates the Constitutional Committee, the president of the National Assembly came by carrying lithium between parliamentary clubs. Now we've found out who the SPS suggested, but I don't know who the DSS suggested, and we certainly won't find out today, because none of them are there. Excuse me, ma'am, there's only one MP from the DSS. As for the G17 plus we have an MP here... (Milojub Albianic, from place: Two. )......................................................................................................... Excuse me, two, New Serbia three. I don't notice you, since you have a knife and a cake in your hand. What exactly is this about? Where and on what basis do the parliamentary groups draw the right to propose? Tell me on the basis of which member of the law, which member of the Constitution? He's gone. It extends the interpretation, and even between the ranks, does not give the right to propose parliamentary groups. MP groups can have the status of proposing the establishment of a committee, possibly as a form in which the legislators are identified and there is an end. In determining the list of candidates of the parliamentary group, they do not exist, even as initiators. Now a few questions are being raised here. What happens if this list of ten doesn't pass? The presidency may force the entire list to vote, but that would be profoundly contrary to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We'd have to declare ourselves individually about each of these candidates. What happens if two candidates pass, three candidates? There's no list. If you're going with a 10 list, I might want to vote in two or five, but how are you going to get those 10? Why am I telling you this? Because the same problem was with the National Educational Council three years ago, so setting up the list was a kind of circus. Why? Because some of them, who remembered they had to write the law, put their finger on their foreheads and began to caricate what it looked like somewhere in the West and made such a galatias that we had to do a few times vote on the system -- quick fingers, as soon as it voted, not to mistake the color. If democracy and decision-making are taking part in a quiz, then you've done it. I know you want to make a quiz out of all this. Main premium, competition, etc. As you can see, in this cartoonization of democracy, which is very tragic for us, because when it comes to this point of the agenda, it concerns the very existence and being a very important state body, we all here, thanks to these unserious proposings, bring to the level of tragedy. I must draw attention to all those who have entered this procedure as MP groups, however this list of 10, five of them is determined by Boris Tadic. You could have proposed all the experts in the area of constitutional law, but Boris Tadic decides who will be. He's going to put this item on the agenda, with the previous one, in a tied-up store. You'll see during this debate, no one from the parliamentary groups that have proposed, I don't count the Socialists, they do it very honestly, these others won't say -- that's our candidate, we've proposed it, but they'll wisely keep quiet so the public won't know what the deal is about independence, independence, competence, etc. As far as I'm concerned, this list is better than that of Tadic, incomparably better. For your sakes from the DS, let me tell you, eight of them are my friends, and you think about who they are. We don't want to criticize anyone by name. Now you're gonna die of trouble thinking about who you are. Why did I tell you this? To help you come up with an idea, an idea of legal violence, to see this violence come back as a boomerang. No one has ever found an answer to the question, when Tadic hears that I said that eight of them are my home friends, who do you think he's going to name? It takes five out of these 10, and if he has the right to return the list and say, "I'm not going to take either one of these." Have you thought about it? They're not fit by the Constitutional Court. They've proven they're not fit by the Constitutional Court. Whenever the authorities came to terms, they broke up the Constitutional Court first, so as not to control the state of emergency, so as not to control "Sabbe" etc., so under public pressure they managed somehow to push that Constitutional Court and pray to God that it was not working. So, I'm speaking plainly so I can come up with an idea for you, to get you into an even bigger fungi. Mr. Dulic, I expect you to let us know who the candidates proposed by the parliamentary groups are. What DS suggested, I don't know if we're going to vote. And right now, let me tell these people on this list -- they fell a lot in my eyes if DS suggested them. So, eight of these on this list, which one of you suggested DS, not that he wasn't my friend anymore, are professionals, but he fell in my eyes. Mr. Dulic, with Boris Tadic's proposal, we had one piece of paper where they expressed great gratitude for what Mr. President suggested and said they accepted. We don't have any candidate statements here to accept being a candidate. What if someone, say, wasn't contacted to be a candidate? We don't have any written statements from these candidates. Do you have written statements from these candidates? You don't. For their own, but they keep it in the safe. We don't have written statements, so to say - Mr. Dulic, we express our gratitude for proposing that we be candidates on the National Assembly list, we inform you that we accept that we are candidates, that we meet on the list that the National Assembly will propose to the President of the Republic for the election. We don't have that consent. Maybe these faces peed in the meantime. I know some of them got pissed when they heard my discussion, and I'm absolutely sure of it, and even this friend of mine, the great monarchist, the professor. Where's your consent? Show the public. The press is chasing here, looking. Who's proposing who here? Which parliamentary group suggests which candidate? Let him come out and say heroically - we from the DS suggested that and that, because that's who he is. You suggested and explained, well done, the SPS did it, good job. You see, the opposition is regular, the government is messy, the government is messy. We don't know if they're agreeable, and we don't know if the parliamentary groups were able to propose adequate candidates. Here, Mr. Dulic, one proposal, and you take notes or stenograms there, to see what it might look like to be one of the future solutions in our rules of procedure when it comes to this. Since the People's Assembly is here formally-legally a list promoter, it only takes place after the vote, we can formally and legally propose a list of 50 candidates. But we are obliged to put on the list those who have received the largest number of votes in the National Assembly or, to be more precise, to vote on the basis of which the National Assembly decides, which is 126 votes, and only then is it a proposal that goes towards the President of the Republic. How do we get to that list, to the candidates? Since we do not have the original right, we should probably provide for the Rules of Procedure to make a public call to interested institutions, most likely there are legal universities, law offices, professional associations, institutes, to deliver initiatives, hence their proposals, so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs invites all these candidates, to look at their working biographies and to have a conversation with them all. Why do you need to talk? Because, in parallel with the arrival of this material that someone is running for office, there comes that material that is being challenged by someone's candidacy. The constitutional committee must discuss whether the Supreme Court judge, proposed by the Law Association for the List, has reached a verdict that is bad and illegal during his working career, so Mikic reported. That's where we're supposed to discuss it. Let's play some Americans. You know how with them, the Senate board, the minister's candidate, so they shake him out of all sides, and he gets what he had for breakfast when he started out as a baby. You don't want that. You want the parliamentary group to have the status of initiator, whoever makes the initial proposal, the Constitutional Committee rounds it up, how, by the system of agreements, but this list is not a list for the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs of the National Assembly. If you think you're going to vote this list as the lists are voted and elected by MPs of members of the National Assembly's working bodies, then we don't need such candidates for the Constitutional Court, because you've devalued them with dibidos. The committee and the National Assembly, the working body and the parliamentary groups are known to propose their candidates, no one enters the composition of that, the vote is voted on, the president is elected, the Vice-President and the Vice-President and the Working Body functions. But it's not the Constitutional Court. You forgot, it's not the Constitutional Court. We need to get to the list of 10, not the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The question is, who here has the permissive power before the National Assembly? A team before this internal procedure of our Rules of Procedure is arranged: how are we going to invite someone to propose a candidate or to propose themselves? Why? There are people here that no one can see, propose themselves to some appropriate working body of the National Assembly that prepares this material, goes out here for a vote, forms a list of 10 and goes to the President of the Republic. As you can see, there's no room for political parties here. I appreciate those parliamentary groups that have proposed candidates, taking care of their résumés and their working skills. But you've been fooled by these bastards, so you know. They tricked you. Why? Because no matter how you draw up a list of 10, it's called the one across the street, and he chooses five by taking care of what the National Assembly has chosen from his 10th list. We have this interregnem where only the Constitutional Court will have 10 members, so we say, two-thirds is the Constitutional Court; it doesn't exist; it exists when it's 15. As the National Assembly exists when it is 250. The National Assembly can't exist with 166 or 170, I don't know how much it turns out. But no, this is where you need to be forced. Don't be surprised if we demonstrate a debacle here on points 2 and 3. When I tell you, the National Assembly. Why? These wise now that they're gone, they're conditioned here, and this wise person conditiones these sly ones here, and we here need to play something to fill that void, and already 26th is going to be the initiative for Kosovo in Metohija. Just so you know, you're playing with law and state. The first phase leaves on November 26th, and the third phase on December 10th. Just play. Why do you expect the SRS to cooperate with you now? We don't want any complicity. We didn't even want to propose any candidate. Why? Given the way you came up with this, do you know when they'd pass Boris Tadic? Limburg moon. They couldn't possibly get through. You know when he makes a movie look like it. Think about it, replace the tape and push it on. We do not want to cooperate, because we are absolutely certain that when we brought this constitution, none of us voted to propose parliamentary groups for a list of 10, from which we need the President of the Republic to choose five. Why didn't you make one congregation decision here, which would oblige us all with some procedure to do all this. That would get some legitimacy. Individually, one general decision is made here, given this situation. In the introduction of this conclusion, you are referring to Article 172. Tell me which part: the part relating to the president or part relating to the National Assembly; the part relating to the list of 10 or to the selection of five from the list of 10? Well, in the end, such a chico maco, attitude 5, they meet the conditions, you've seen that older than 40, graduate lawyers, have more than 15 years of employment. That's not what anyone asked you. It's a previous question that's always been determined here. It can even cross over. But no, it's got to be a party attack. What would these people say, expertise in front of politics? But their expertise and, of course, their policy. Or, to be more specific, their expertise as a presumption in front of every policy. Why? To shake money, these G17 plus. (Chairman: Mr. Krassic, please. Mr. Albianic, you have great sympathy for me, I hope you will finally pay off that apartment and get rid of the G17 plus. If we're supposed to help, help, but don't defend what no one can defend. If you're so naughty, I'll report you to Ivana Dulic, you know what she's like. She'll shut you out of the party right now. Stay calm. Gentlemen, and the public of Serbia to know, the public of Serbia knows much better than you think, make sure you do not participate in the court. Who? Kostunica's political dad and political son Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10427	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10428	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, re-determined by Article 27, which concerns the obligation of the President of the Assembly to care for the respect of the Constitution or constitutional law, the provision of Article 9, on the way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. I repeat again that criteria that correspond to the category had to be established - a prominent lawyer. It is now time for the President of the Assembly to announce to us who are the promoters of individual candidates. The SPS made it loud and clear which candidates she proposed. The Vojvodian MPs' group, too. What about the other seven candidates? Who suggested them? I now question the credibility of the proposal. No one can play with the messengers of the people, like the matchmakers, this one is not, this one is not, come on guess who is, you see him, you don't see the hour. Whose candidates, who suggested them, why should those who suggested hide, not announce that they were the promoters? Mr. Dulic said -- I hope MP groups have proposed their best candidates. What parliamentary groups, which candidates? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have here a candidate who is a member of the JUL. She was the president of the Municipal Court at a time when the minister of justice was a member of the JUL. Now she wrote in her biography -- not a member of any party. Her sister was president of the JUL Municipal Committee. I didn't hear that JUL was deleted from the political party register. Here recently, Mira Markovic had her emissary at a time when the assembly's agenda was a point -- who prefers Fidel Kastra? It seems to me that JUL is slowly returning to the scene. So, announce whose candidate this is, in a few months, they're going to be 35 years old and retired. So, a member of JUL's before retirement, a candidate for the Constitutional Court. Who are you playing with here? Who has the right to distract us? It is like the Hong Kong story, a negotiating team hides from the Assembly what is its obligation, to report to the Assembly on what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Then as the Grimm brothers, as Andersen, Hong Kong. Well, they don't know that the Chinese live in Hong Kong and China. They don't know that Hong Kong has been agreed, and no one here can make a deal. Hong Kong is one of the richest metropolises in the world, and Kosovo is one of the poorest. It's all upside down. It is an act with elected MPs, and with intelligence, common sense and intelligence, Serbian citizens and no one should do so. I ask the President of the Assembly to announce which parliamentary group or party has proposed which candidate, and then let's see if that fits the constitutional category - the prominent lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10429	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Zoran Krasic for the words that he explained the behaviour of the SPS regarding this item of the agenda - the proposal for a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, because everything he said is absolutely correct, but let me say a few more words on behalf of the SPS on this agenda point, I will do so through several points and very specific. One, the fact is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is late setting out a proposal for possible candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court. According to the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, we should have done so by the end of the first session, meaning, several months ago, and there is no logical reason why the National Assembly has not established this proposal before, to the fact that the ruling coalition could not have reached agreement at all on the formation of this, for the life of the state, important institutions, and perhaps in that second part, the proposal of possible candidates, which Mr Tadic, as an authorised proposer, has been established for judges of the Constitutional Court. It is something that is undeniable, even sometimes I bear the thought that this current government corresponds to this kind of institutional chaos, that there is no Constitutional Court, because whatever this Constitutional Court is, it would exist, it would work, and then the Constitutional Court would have to bring certain views regarding initiatives, proposals, cases that stand in the Constitutional Court. On the Constitutional Court site, I've been told by colleagues who saw it, I haven't seen it directly, but I've heard that there are about a thousand cases standing, waiting, and about 300 cases in this year and you can assume, for the Constitutional Court there will be and how it works, and in relation to that fact and the fact that the state isn't complete, if there isn't a Constitutional Court, it really is a question why we haven't had a Constitutional Court so far. So we're late. Under two, the constitution predicted that the National Assembly set out 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, of which the president of the Republic of Serbia will appoint five, and that the National Assembly of those 10 candidates appointed by the president of the Republic of Serbia as the speaker of the Assembly elects five. So we have in this part of the election and determining candidates, undeniably, our part of the obligation. Under three, the Constitutional Court law, the law we discussed so far, did not provide for a procedure for the establishment of a candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court, concerning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the SPS have made it very clear in the debate that was on this law, and we take it as one major drawback, because I have to be honest and say, we all expected, given those provisions of the Constitution concerning the formulation that the National Assembly determines candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, we expected that part of the procedure would be laid down in the Constitutional Court law. But there was nothing of it, and we think it's also one thing to criticise. Under four, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, this issue is not treated properly, because at a time when the Rules of Procedure was written this matter was something that was not the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Rules of Procedure, simply, when it did not regulate this issue, leaves room for many arbitraryities, which some other colleagues mentioned. Five, the fact is that we from the SPS have accepted Mr Dulic's invitation to take part in consultations on the establishment of possible candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. These consultations were attended by Mr Ivica Dacic, as the chairman of the SPS and the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, and I as deputy president of the parliamentary group. We discussed these consultations on possible candidates and how the candidates of the National Assembly for the Constitutional Court could be established. I must say that there were diametrically opposite views in these talks, from the fact that we should make one decision, as Mr Krasic mentioned, which, of course, when I quote Mr Krasic, the SRS did not participate, and this attitude is something that does not apply to her, but I mention that man has his own thoughts on it. Part of the MPs thought this way, until perhaps we can put the Committee on Constitutional Affairs into office, but apparently, since neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Procedure have anything on this, the question remains open on how it comes to this. Under six, the SPS has proposed two candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. It's about Professor Vladan Kutlesic and Mr Jadranka Injac, and we are absolutely behind these two proposals. Under seven, we stand behind these two proposals because both candidates meet both old, working, professional, and moral conditions, and, importantly, they are not members of the SPS, but the fact is that we are proposing them as candidates. Allow me, and this is something that I wanted to point out under point eight, regarding this address to you, when you look at the biographical data of Professor Vladan Kutlasic and Mrs Jadranka Injac, you will see that they have the expertise that objectively makes them very strong candidates among the proposed candidates and generally, when you are looking at that other candidate proposal that Mr President of the Republic has identified. Why am I saying this? Mr. Professor Vladan Kutlesic is someone who doctored constitutional law, someone who is a regular professor at the Faculty of State Administration and Administration at Megatrend University, who teaches the subject of Constitutional Law, someone who has published three scientific monographs, six editions of textbooks, one chamber of papers, 65 articles in relevant scientific journals, who participated in over 30 different consultations in the country and abroad. It seems to me that when it comes down to saying that the candidate is absolutely capable of doing this extremely important job. Mrs. Jadranka Injac is the judge of Serbia's Supreme Court. She mastered law school in Belgrade. He is doing an extremely important job in Serbia's Supreme Court. You can see if you read her biography, she wrote a large number of written representations of the law and their concrete application in practice from different areas. Both candidates have absolutely the conditions they need to be judges of the Constitutional Court, and let alone the candidates. Under nine, we expect Serbia to get a Constitutional Court and exit from this blockade or at least one part of an institutional blockade that exists. We think that the Constitutional Court should be elected, in order for all these many cases, according to us, violations of the Constitution and the law, to be given the opportunity for professional people to give their opinion. If I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group or one of my colleagues, point out concrete application that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the example works in the work when it forms a humane composition of municipalities in which it appoints a forced administration, does not mention a constitutional provision where it says that the composition of a forced council must correspond to the national and party structures of disbanded municipalities, it remains only as something that the SPS deputies say, addressing their fellow Members or the public of Serbia. I am fully convinced what we Socialists are saying will get a completely different meaning when the Constitutional Court confirms these assessments. It is undeniable that the government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed a forced administration in 10 municipalities, it is undeniable that it has formed a force bigger by party principle, it is undeniable that members of these forced councils are only members of the ruling coalition. It is indisputable that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as in the Great City and other large municipalities, has even appointed the Great Gradist, Zrenjanin, Užica, Smederev, Smederjevska Palanca, Kula and another number of municipalities as members of a forced majority party who do not have council members in municipalities. You know, in one way, that sounds like when we announce it to the public, and it will have a completely different weight when the Constitutional Court finds that our allegations are correct, when it annuls the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and when it is determined that it is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have cited only one example, and many fellow MPs who have participated in discussions over the past months have highlighted a dozen other examples, we think that the Constitutional Court should make a decision on these cases and get an important institution. We Socialists have repeatedly mentioned that we are the opposition to power, but we are opposition to the state and we want the Constitutional Court to be established, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia and through that institution can exercise their rights, because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has and how significant a place in the overall life of the Serbian state and protect citizens, except for what is considered their fundamental rights and human freedoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10431	The word has an MP, Bajro Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10432	Dear People's MPs, the Manjina MP group, on the basis of an agreement with all the heads of the parliamentary groups we had with Mr Oliver Dulic, has proposed one candidate in front of our parliamentary group for the Constitutional Court. It's Mrs. Zejnapa Kavrajić from Novi Pazar. She is a member of the Bosniak national minority and we think the time has come to slowly apply in this area of the norm, in this case a constitutional norm that says minorities should be included in the institutions of the state system, in this case such an extremely important institution. Mrs. Kavrjic was born in 1951 in Novi Pazar. She spent her entire working life as a lawyer in the economy, and then as a judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar and today she is the judge of the District Court in Novi Pazar. In her trial career, she was qualified as a very successful judge. As for the standard it meets, I took, just to mention, the first six months, its norm is as much as 151.7%, it's official data from the Ministry of Justice and the institutions that follow it. In the third trimester, she had a 123% standard. In 90% of the cases, she was confirmed the verdicts she made. It's an exceptional professional, and that's why the Manjina parliamentary group is behind this candidate, and it's very important for us to have her elected, to practice tomorrow for the Supreme Court. You know well that there are no Bosniaks in the Supreme Court, there are no Bosniaks at the top of the prosecutor's office, there are no Bosniaks at the top of the other judicial institutions, and Bosniaks are equal citizens of this country and they should participate in such an important institution. If we don't choose Mrs. Kavrajić this time, we won't have Bosniaks with some biographies, where we can quote that they were Supreme Court judges and other courts. Because this is exactly how we were proposed before, and there's always someone to say, this is not a good Bosniak. But 20 candidates were proposed, no other Bosniak or Bosniak. We believe that MPs should vote for Zejnapa Kavrjic, because he is a very successful judge, and that is why we call on all MPs' groups and all MPs to support it. The Manjina parliamentary group did not consider that the Constitutional Court should be established by proposing to the parliamentary groups candidates in the sense that they are their candidates. However, we are limited by legal norms and regulations that regulate this procedure. That's why I'm calling for that meeting we had with the president, where it's said MP groups should propose. I would like to remind you that the Manjina parliamentary group is almost there right after that meeting, you can see it in our office archive, that we were the first to propose our candidate, precisely because we felt that what the president told us was that we had the right to do so. Regardless of the disputes we've heard here today, we've almost heard one dispute from the former minister. I would remind him because he respected that we had some members of some parties as judges. I want to remind him, when he was the minister of justice, in 2000 DOS had a two-thirds majority, not to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, he could choose what he wanted, he could bring the constitution. But, interestingly, he didn't replace Mr. Vučetic, he was a member of the Central Committee. At the time, the Minister didn't mind being a member of the Central Committee. I personally appreciate Mr. Vučetić as an extremely good lawyer, but the minister did not ask for him then, although he was a member of the Central Committee, if he hadn't retired and today, he would have been the President of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I call on MEPs to vote for Zejnapa Kavrajic, because it will be an opportunity for minority representatives to get another opportunity to be integrated into all institutions in our society and in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-12-0.u10433	Thank you. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow.
