ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3254	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 145 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is determined that 116 MPs, or more than one third of the MPs, are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Esad Judjevic has been prevented from attending the session. We're continuing our work on the agenda. Before the debate begins on the agenda, I would ask the MPs to pay a minute of silence to the deceased MP from the formerly calling on Parliament, Mr Sinisha Aksentijevic, who is buried today. Praise him. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision, submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. You have received an amendment to the motion for a decision, also submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the draft decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Susana Grubjesic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Does anyone want a word in article 93? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Željko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would only like you to launch an initiative in front of our foreign ministry, the embassy in Athens and the Consulate Office in Thessaloniki. Two years ago, in Uroševec, Albanian terrorists and separatists stoned three Serbian women, Ljiljana Nikolic, her mother, who is blind, otherwise Ljiljana Nikolic was paralyzed, and their cousin who suffers from arthritis and who watches over the two. Given that they suffered serious injuries in the stoning process, Greek KFOR units took them to a military hospital in Thessaloniki, carrying 424, that's what they call a hospital. Today, after two years, they live in Thessaloniki, in a room, three in six squares, where only three beds can fit. I received information on this from Mr Panayotis Vajanis of Kozani, who, by the way, graduated from the Medical Faculty in Belgrade and served as an army at this military hospital in Thessaloniki. Please, Mr. President, take advantage of your authority and the function you're performing to launch an initiative to get the representatives of the Thessaloniki Consular Representation to visit these three ladies and to see what they need, to try to get them out of this extremely difficult human and family situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3256	Thank you. We are moving to work in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE 2007 One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for the organization of mandatory social security for 2007. (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (g) the National Employment Service and (d) the Republic Health Insurance Office, which was submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Čedomir Jovanovic, Milorad Belic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Laslo Varga and Balint Pastor, Veroljub Arsić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Krasić, Saša Valjarević, Natasa Jovanović, Zoran Antic, Nebojša Stefanović, Dejan Mirović, Slava Topalović, Slava Jerković, Aleksandar Vukić, Petar Jojić, Božidar Delić, Zoran Mašić, Milorad Krstin, Zvonko Mihajlović, Zvdravko Topalović, Marina Toman, Elena Bozan-taljan, Vjerica Radet, Radiša Ilic, Milan Škrbić, Veljko Kovačević, Boždar Koprivica, Jadranko Vuković, Milardranka Buh, Milović, Možaljan Šović, Milović, Milović and Mirović. On 18 June 2007, MP Vladan Batic submitted at 11.40 p.m., 10 amendments to the Bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which he withdrew by letter of 18 June 2007, at 13 p.m., and submitted new amendments to Articles 5, 8, 12, 15 and 16. It's a bill of law. National MP Milan Nikolic submitted an amendment to article 5 of the June 3, 18th, 2007, at 12 o'clock, which he withdrew by letter of 18 June 2007 and submitted a new amendment to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 12. It's a bill of law. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, continue the work after 18 hours, with a point that will be on the agenda at that time. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman, has already opened the debate in detail on the draft budget law, extended the work of the session of the Serbian Parliament, and the MPs, who are scheduled to take part in the debate and, later, in the voting day, have no opinion on the draft law on budgets and amendments yet on the draft budget law. In this case, they have no opinion of the Finance Committee, which is in charge. Therefore, every further extension of this session is a violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in Article 147. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider the amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly about which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. I would just like to remind the MPs and the chairman that we are material for this session, so the draft budget law, we got on Friday, late afternoon, that we've had little more than two days to study the draft budget law, to make amendments, to bring them in line with the Budget System Act. At the same time, it has obviously been difficult for the Government and the committees to see, for three or four days, since the amendments have been tabled, met and tabled proposals on which amendments are accepted and which are rejected. Let me say that I understand why the Finance Committee didn't do it, but I can't understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia didn't do it, as a draft of the budget law, especially since the government's session, as far as I know, is under way. We do not have the Government's opinion on the amendments that have been tabled, we have no reason why some amendments accept and some refuse, or we have nothing to discuss, except the 'dry' amendments, without the opinion of the proposings and committees. Therefore, the chairman should set a break in the work of the National Assembly, wait for the opinion, at least, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted by all MPs, and when we get that opinion, then let us continue the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3258	Thank you. I'll give you the answer right away. You are right that the member you quoted says so, but there is also a Article 139 that says in its final point - unless the committees deliver reports, or the Government has an opinion on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. Are you satisfied with the answer? (No) Here you go, Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to this question, I would like to, calling on Article 226, to get a notice and an explanation, which is very important for the further work of this session, given that we are starting a debate on the draft budget law in particular, and this is also about Article 146 and Article 147. I'm looking for the next explanation. We've received a report from the Legislative Committee. It's ahead of us. I don't understand him, and I didn't find a foothold anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. For those reasons, I ask, so I'm looking for an explanation. The report says that the Legislative Committee considers that the following amendments are legally possible, and 20 amendments are listed. In addition, a formulation that needs to be explained - the Committee has considered and proposed that the Assembly reject the following amendments, so 39 amendments are listed. The Legislative Committee has its specific functions, it knows what to do; it primarily observes the law from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. So if the first 20 amendments listed are legally possible, are these 39 next not legally possible? Second question. If the Legislative Committee rejects amendments, it can reject them only if they are untimely, incomplete, offensive, that I do not count further. The consequence of the rejection of amendments by the Legislative Committee is that the Assembly cannot consider them. So this report is a complete confusion. For these reasons, I ask for an explanation as to whether these 39 amendments are legally possible. If it is, we talk further, and if it isn't, I'm looking for an explanation - which is why it's not. Next question. If, using Article 147, the Legislative Committee proposes that amendments be rejected, then it is equal to everyone else, that is a different story, but does that mean that it requires that these first 20 be accepted? I'm looking for an explanation before the amendment debate begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3260	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly obviously wants to make a joke with the MPs, with the National Assembly, or I don't know what. So, article 139. The Rules of Procedure regulate that -- if by some miracle happens, while this government is the new DOS in power, some law proposed by a group of MPs, a MP or another promoter who is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, prevents blocking the adoption of the law in the Serbian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Only then can the government, without the government's opinion, continue to discuss a law, whether it is in principle or in particular. However, this is about the proposed law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, I guess, the first one should be in the interest of this law being passed in the National Assembly. The insistence of the chairman to work without the government's opinion is the humiliation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot be older than the National Assembly. We are the ones who should dictate under what conditions the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working. So don't refer to article 139. Without the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, any further discussion in particular is a violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the humiliation of the National Assembly and the humiliation of the MPs by the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3262	Thank you. In addition to Article 139, which I have just quoted to you, I would like to quote to you a member of the Rules of Procedure as regards the emergency procedure, and the budget is made by an emergency procedure. This is Article 163(1), which also defines this area and says - unless the committees deliver a report or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be discussed without these reports, or opinions. So we're also acting on that article. I've quoted you two members who define the same situation we're in today. Do you accept this explanation? (No) If not, I would ask the service to make a statement in the voting day on whether there were violations of the Rules of Procedure. Also, I owe a reply to the People's MP Petronivic. The rejected amendments will be discussed and voted on today, in the debate on details, so there is no problem or doubt that amendments rejected on the Legislative Committee will not be voted and discussed. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Vjerica Radeta and Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3263	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I understand your situation and that you're trying to get the government out of a very awkward position, because it was required that during this 24-hour period, and it had a time before, all the amendments delivered consider and, therefore, to give its opinion. It is true that here, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure have been done badly and that certain members of the Rules of Procedure are opposed to one another. But if you read them carefully, you will come to an unambiguous conclusion that we now had to have the Government's opinion on the amendments proposed. Even this 163, to which you are calling, it is very precise that the amendments are made by the legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government. So there's no dilemma. The government had to make a statement about this. You have a member of the 139th century 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 - unless the committees deliver reports, or government opinions on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. But Article 147 of the amendments is very precise and says, "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged," there is no alternative here, "to consider before the National Assembly meetings amendments which are submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected". This is, absolutely, unequivocally, an imperative that must be respected. There's no alternative. The government was obliged to make all amendments known and to deliver it to the Assembly. If you do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure, you may violate the Rules of Procedure, but if you respect this Rules of Procedure, we would have to have the Government's opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3264	I agree with you that the Government should have made a statement on all amendments, but I disagree with you that we are violating the Rules of Procedure if we continue the session. I would like to quote to you again Article 163 which we are working on today, because it is a law that is passed by emergency procedure, which is that "unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions". So, I agree with you that the government was supposed to deliver an opinion, but since it's not, we move on, according to the Rules of Procedure. Since you are not satisfied, I would like to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3265	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the last assembly we had an attempt at the same violation of the law as we received today from the Legislative Committee. We managed to convince the then president, Mr Aligrudic, not to do things like this. I don't know who my colleague Vlatko Ratkovic is, I don't know what he's up to, if he's possibly a lawyer, then I'm telling him now that he's got a legal profession and science, because he couldn't possibly have signed this report from the Legislative Committee. If it was your intention, gentlemen of the congregation majority, to shorten the time of discussion in particular in this way, so that, I don't know on what basis, you suggest that one group of amendments be rejected, and there is no legal basis for it, then we will really not allow you to do so. Interestingly, all amendments that refuse to be submitted by MPs are the parliamentary majority. Then you put here one amendment to Nadice Momirov, so Vlasi wouldn't think of it, just because you expected one of us to react like this. The Legislative Committee will, in accordance with Article 146. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments, will be rejected, which will be reported to the National Assembly. None of these amendments are untimely, incomplete, nor offensive. Even if it were, then the Legislative Committee would reject it, and there is no possibility, no business, no legal possibility, that the Legislative Committee would propose to the Assembly that the amendment be rejected. I suggest a smart and constructive solution - that the Legislative Committee withdraw, to change this illegal decision and to put all amendments into discussion in the National Assembly, which is binding and what it must, or to tell us for each of these amendments whether it is untimely, to prove to us that it is incomplete, that it is with offensive content, and that, in that case, it makes a decision to reject it. So it's been three minutes. Mr Dulic, if the Legislative Committee does not do this, Serbian Radical Party MPs will speak 15 minutes each of these amendments, which are proposed to refuse, according to article 146. Rules of Procedure. So you're not gonna get time, and you're gonna do something that's going to stay marked as unremembered. I remind you once again, ask Milos Aligrudic, this is what he tried in the last term. After, then, mine, and Krasic's interventions and arguments, the Legislative Committee changed its decision. I hope this Legislative Committee, at least those who voted for this, has enough sense to do so, or else you'll do something that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3266	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Legislative Committee, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3267	My colleagues and colleagues, first brief answer to the question of my colleague, Verica Radeta. I'm a graduate lawyer, a lawyer from Ruma, not Kragujevac, there's Vlatko Rajkovic, I think. I have 16 years of experience in the profession. I agree with certain remarks that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly should be amended. Today I spoke with colleagues from the Legislative Committee, from other parliamentary groups and with fellow SPS colleagues, certain contradictions and some legal vacuums exist in formulations. As regards the objection made by your colleague Radeta on the rejection and refusal of amendments, the Committee's decision is rejected in the situation where the amendment, as stated in Article 146, is untimely, incomplete and offensive. No amendments here have been rejected as far as the Legislative Committee is concerned. Next, Article 147. The Rules of Procedure say: "The legislator, the committee responsible and the Government are obliged to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected." Article 45 speaks of the competences of the Legislative Committee. There is no norm in this article that would regulate this question. As chairman of the Legislative Committee, any amendment for which the Legislative Committee has taken the view that it should be rejected, or that it does not comply with a certain regulation, I will be happy to explain. I can say that I would be glad that the members of the SRS Legislative Committee also attended the session and that we could agree on this. So, the session was held three days ago and today - on amendments. Just one more finding. It is not true that all amendments submitted by MPs from the SRS Group have been rejected. I will be happy to explain any decision of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3268	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3269	Mr. Vice President, the president of the National Assembly has broken the Rules of Procedure because he gave Mr. Ratkovic his word before me, although I did report to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform fellow Members of the People's Parliament that I have not voted in favour of such decisions of the Legislative Committee, because I am a member of that committee. At the session, which was just finished, I made the same remarks as my colleague Petronijevic and other colleagues who are talking about this today. The Legislative Committee does not discuss the essence of any act, it helps other national MPs to see whether they can make one question known or not from the point of view of constitutionality, legality and these other elements that are listed here, whether they are timely to submit acts, whether they have offensive content and the like. The Legislative Committee does not have the right to suggest to MPs whether an act will be adopted or not, that is not its jurisdiction. I want to help my colleague, Veronica Radetta. And in that first session, there was an attempt to manipulate this number of amendments, when it was necessary to ensure that, as soon as possible, the debate in particular on certain points of the agenda was completed. I stand on the view that it is not possible for the Legislative Committee to refer such an act to the National Assembly, because, from the analogy that stands in this act, it can be interpreted as being legally possible for some amendments and others to be rejected. The verb "refuse", ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not common in communication between MPs and authorities. Otherwise, there are other verbs here that are used for situations like this. Therefore, it is completely inappropriate for the Legislative Committee to communicate with the MPs in this regard. We'll do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen in the future. Also, I'd like to say that the committees of the National Assembly over the past few days have been unable to hold sessions from several attempts. I want to say that I participated, tried to participate in the work of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, at several sessions of the Finance Committee. Today, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the distinguished gentlemen of the ruling majority, you are unable to provide the majority for the start of the Committee's work. I warn you not to be angry with MPs from opposition parties, who have neither political interest nor any other rational reason to provide you with a quorum to work normally. I also want to say that, regardless of what anyone thinks of the people of the ministries etc., the Minister and the full service of the Ministry of Finance have come several times today to various committees to explain certain acts that are in the procedure, and that you, as MPs from the ruling majority, have not provided a quorum for the start of the session. So, to exercise power, it's a matter of responsibility. Either you're a government or you're not a government, either you have a majority or you don't have a majority, or you're willing to, at any point in time, by one of the rules of procedure that's extremely restrictive, make sure Parliament works normally, or you call elections, or you make a new coalition, there's a way out of this situation. I would kindly ask, once again, that the Legislative Committee does not refer such acts to the MPs, because they are not fair, they are not correct. The parent committees in the National Assembly will tell whether or not they can accept some of the amendments, so they will suggest to the National Assembly whether or not they will adopt them. The Legislative Committee has no such right, nothing has been given to it and I sincerely believe it will not. With regard to the issue raised by Mr Todorovic, that the government has not spoken out on certain amendments, there is Mr Dulic right, but it is simply a matter of a fair relationship with the National Assembly that the Government has an opinion on any act directed to the National Assembly, either positive or negative. Then the thing would be completely clean and we could say that we are Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3270	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The only thing I'd like to say is that I assume the President of the Assembly gave the People's Parliament a word to clarify each other. I can also suggest that the Legislative Committee holds a session in which you will clarify each other how acts will be sent to the Assembly and, thirdly, some committees do not really have a congregation majority, those who count 17 members. It is a problem and by that logic they could never meet. So I really urge that the Rules of Procedure should be amended and things arranged for each other, as well as that, by proportion, Members of Parliament take part in the Committee's further work. The People's MP Dragan Todorovic, and then the People's MP Vjerica Radet, reported on the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not even going to try to convince the chairman that the Rules of Procedure is being violated, I understand his position, but I'd like to try to convince the president or head of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups that we really couldn't move to considering the law in particular because we don't have a report from the government. Article 147. The Serbian Parliament's rules of procedure are clear. I don't know what else I have to tell you to convince you that without the government's opinion, we couldn't possibly move on to reviewing the law in particular. Be careful, it's very precise what the government needs to do and it's said, "it's due." So, no, it can, will or won't, can or won't, but it's due. Now I remind you of one fact. I am sure there are amendments that the government will accept, because it will come from the ranks of MPs from the ruling coalition. We have had such cases, let's say, that certain amendments really need to be accepted, so, in some cases, the ruling coalition of the same amendment proposed that they be accepted by MPs from the ruling coalition, which is totally fine, to be understood. They would not be accepted by the opposition MPs. By accepting such an amendment, we are essentially not getting another law, but we are getting another form. A large number of amendments, for example, if an amendment is accepted, automatically wastes, because they are illogical or because they are very similar to that accepted. That's why we here today had to have the Government's opinion on the amendments, which the amendments were accepted, which were not accepted, and only then do we have a debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3272	Thank you. Mr Todorovic, under Article 163, unless the committees deliver a report or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be discussed without these reports, or opinions. We further need to find out the following fact - the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the government's authorised representative, is with us today and can certainly declare the amendments, to say which amendments he accepts, which he does not. Therefore, we have perfectly normal conditions for working on amendments, with the minister present, with the possibility of the minister pleading on them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3273	Mr. Albianic, if you listened very carefully to me, I was very precise at first, and I said I wouldn't even try to explain it to you and convince you. I spoke to the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups. So, Mr. Albianic, you didn't have to explain anything to me at all. I gave up that right of mine in advance when it comes to you, that you're giving me an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3274	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I wanted to explain the situation to you, though. The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the people Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3275	Comrade Ratkovic, what you've been trying to explain may be that you could see someone who first sees the Rules of Procedure, someone who doesn't know how parliament works, but to me, really, don't try. You, I remember, last year, when the topic of importing those Velya's "charled railways" was, you remember Sarancic from the "shared" cars, then Velja Ilic told reporters...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3276	Mrs. Radeta, but it has nothing to do with the colorful railways with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3277	Mr. Albianic, please let me finish, and if you finally find it has nothing to do with the amendment, then say it, but don't interrupt me. So then Velja Ilic told reporters -- "well, well, there was no tender, yes, these wagons were imported without a tender, but this law on public procurement is so bad that it should change." So, is this Rules of Procedure bad, like you said, I'm not getting into it. In fact, I know it's bad, actually, I know that when we adopted it, when you from the current assembly majority brought it, we warned you of all this which proves to be illogical in this Rules of Procedure, among other things, and of the collapsing of these two members spoken of by Dragan Todorovic. I'll remind you that the Legislative Committee is not a parent committee. The Legislative Committee is a committee for all regulations, for all proposals coming before this House, before the MPs. The Legislative Committee, in accordance with Article 45, Mr Albianic, "The Legislative Committee is considering the bill, the second regulation and the general act addressed to the National Assembly from its point of view", now, counterpart Ratkovic, follow, "from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, a proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly, as well as questions of a single legislative methodology and other issues of importance for the uniform legal and technical processing of acts brought by the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee shall consider the notices of the Constitutional Court on the status and problems of the implementation of constitutionality and legality in the Republic, opinions and indications of the Constitutional Court on the need to adopt and amend laws and other measures to protect the constitutionality and legality, as well as proposals and initiatives to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly. The Committee monitors the construction of the legal system and reports it to the National Assembly. The Committee has 21 members." Mr Ratkovic, fellow MPs, have you noticed that under this article 45th, there is a possibility that the Legislative Committee will refuse any amendment? Of course not, because there is no such possibility. Furthermore, again, I quote Article 146, Mr Albianic, who says: "The President of the National Assembly submits to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. The Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be reported to the National Assembly. Discarded amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on." Therefore, none of these amendments can be introduced under the provisions of Article 146. I quote further, Mr Albianic, Article 147, which reads: "The legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings amendments which have been submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected". Therefore, Article 147 does not apply to the Legislative Committee. The fact that you said that you would be pleased to explain the position of the Legislative Committee on each amendment does not really interest us. Your pleasures are your business. We want this parliament to work exclusively in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As a lawyer, an argument and a member of the Rules of Procedure, convince me I'm wrong. It's not too late. Here, Mr. Aligrudic, has already reported for replication. Now I call him by his name. You remember, Mr. Aligrudic, that there were attempts, when you were president of the Legislative Committee, to do the same, but you accepted the suggestion and the Legislative Committee changed its position and never tried to plant anything on us again, as the Legislative Committee does in this session. So, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you're said to be in a hurry, said an emergency budget should be brought in. We agree we should. Then you work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The more you respect the Rules of Procedure, the sooner you get to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3278	Thank you. Of course the board of directors, the Finance Committee, met, was scheduled, but had no quorum. But Article 163 says, "Unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinions on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions." (Miss Radeta: I am not satisfied with the answer.) You are not satisfied and should be voted. You can't get your word right now because we have four more speakers. You're not satisfied, so you'll vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't get the word, Mrs. Radeta. (The chairman turned off the microphones. Mrs. Radeta, the microphones are off, you didn't get the word. Four MPs have been reported to be speaking according to the Rules of Procedure. We realized he had to go to the vote, because you're not happy. Article 100: "If, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the matter in the day of the vote." You'll be waiting, Mrs. Radeta, for a few more MPs, and you'll come forward. I ask the MPs of the SRS to allow Veretha Radeti to change the order, to report back to the word. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Do you allow, Mr. Aligrudic, that the Witch of Radeta, take her word, depends on you? (Yes) Thank you. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has enabled you to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3279	So, Mr. Albianic, no one has given me anything. So far, I've told you 150 times, in this conference, that you can't communicate with the MPs as if you were neighbors across the board. I'll never tell you from the bench if I'm satisfied or not satisfied with your answer. I am bound by the Rules of Procedure to say, not to you, but to the Members of the People, whether I am pleased with your answer. If I'm not, I have to say what I'm not happy about. How will the MPs vote in voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3280	Say, Mrs. Radeta, are you satisfied with the answer I've read to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3281	Here, I'm explaining, you just keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3282	Just say yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3283	It's not enough to say yes or no. It is enough to explain to the MPs, which is why I am not satisfied, to define them for how they will vote - whether you have hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. So, Mr. Albianic, you choose grandparents and frogs. The fact that you gave me an answer refers to a completely different violation of the Rules of Procedure, refers to the fact that we have no government opinion; I am talking about the Legislative Committee. Read the Rules of Procedure. So, the fact that you tried to be smart a little while ago, it came back to you. I was talking about the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee has made an anti-business, non-constitutional, illegal decision. It must change it if you want us to start discussing the proposal for these laws in particular. Obviously, you won't, gentlemen of the congregation. You knowingly and deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure, so that this debate may begin as soon as possible, so that you may have to move the debate on the government's trust, to reach Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, the working days in the Assembly. But never mind, we're patient. We'll wait for you at that part of the agenda. It's just, I don't know how you're gonna extend the temporary funding if we talk about the Rules of Procedure from now on until July 1st?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3284	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. We find that the National Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic. There is a word from MP Natasa Jovanovic, so please, Mr Markovic, to be patient and listen to your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic has been dissuading the MPs all along, because he would have to, as vice president of the party who is directly responsible for not meeting, or meeting, but not deciding on this, the Finance Committee, to give an answer to the MPs. Mr Albianić, if you are not informed, and obviously you are not, a person who is missing to work on the Finance Committee, where the professional, competent and reasoned chairman of Mrs Jorvanka Tabaković, where we would like to exchange our arguments on the disastrous budget for the past six months, which the Government and Minister Cvetkovic have proposed, is your MP, from the G17 Plus Group, because, no longer knows who is coming out and who is entering your parliamentary group. Since you got these few ministries, the jag has started -- this one's going to be the secretary of state, this assistant, this one over there, some of which I don't know what, the errand boy Dinkic, this one or that one -- is going to be a mess. Serbian citizens must know who the MPs are. In this forerunner, especially, MPs from Krushevec. I have to tell you the Krusheve case. It hasn't happened in Kragujevac yet. In Kruševec, almost all MPs from this ruling structure, so, Duvnjak, hastily resigned, elected to the functions of the MPs, so when you squirm this new tycoon government, they say - no matter what I have to sit eight meters below the ground level, in this assembly hall, artificial light, to beat myself with these laws and with the budget, I go to some important state office. So everyone resigned, and this G17 plus guy, because he got a bag from Tomica, he took a bad shot at Kruševec, and this Milivojevic from DS, he didn't want to see if he'd, what, kibicated some place in some ministry and finally told him, obviously -- there's nothing. He resigned as a councilman, says - why should I come to Kruševac to be a councilman. So, from one to the next, you've come into a situation, Mr. Albianich, that you don't have an MP now. It wasn't the board of your organisation that met, you don't know who you're going to have, who Dinkic will have mercy on or who decides on it, and there's a G17 plus MP missing. It's blocked by the Committee's work. Imagine, by yesterday, you had so much to worry about finance and so much on the one hand and on the other, and now you're not interested in the Finance Committee! Mrs Tabakovic called the Committee in order. You saw in a reasoned debate, in which the minister couldn't answer anything and say, because they were so murderous and strong her arguments for everything she said. And now you're telling us that the present Mr. Minister, let's not know him, but we've met him for these three or four days, these workers from thousands of enterprises he's privatized, they've met him very well in these seven years, or three, how he's managed by the Agency for the Robbery of Serbian Enterprises, or that it doesn't matter that the committees in charge have not met and you convince the SRS MPs that the minister is going to come out and answer every amendment submitted. The man kept his mouth shut for three days. Yesterday he appeared at 13.55 p.m., at the end of the debate in the budget principle and on these points of a united debate, and what he said was, I'm not talking about the laps, because man doesn't know what's called the employment and education office, it's currently the biggest problem in Kragujevac, so RZO says, invent a new name. He confused the numbers, he says, we have billions, I think he mentioned the euro, in some special account, and it didn't go into the budget, but we know where he has it. No expert people like the MPs of the SRS, let alone the layman, understood what he was saying, and you said he was going to answer to us. I believe he's going to sit around all the time, either he's going to nod or he's not going to look at the MP, not lead the debate with him. You know very well, you have long-standing experience in Parliament's work, which is why I assume you are proposed by your party for Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Albianić, that the Committee's work...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3286	And you voted for the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3287	Well, you see, unlike me and the SRS, who respect democratic principles and the fact that you have been proposed as vice president of your political party on the day that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Albianic and I were elected vice presidents of the National Assembly, since this is a reflection of democratic and civilization progress, I suppose, in the Serbian Assembly, you, Mr. Albianic, did not vote for us. So, you'd better keep your mouth shut and not talk about your mess again. Of course we respect that you were elected by the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3288	Did you hear me say time was up?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3289	... No, my time and time for the party I belong to is just coming, and time may be up for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It would be better, since you are now given this crumb of authority, to chair the highest legislative body, to interrupt the session, to invite Mrs Tabakovic to try calling the Committee again, and in the meantime get that candidate on the G17 Plus list, bring him in, verify his mandate, get him into the Finance Committee, and get him to work. Right, Mrs. Tabakovic? That's right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3290	So, as far as the Finance Committee is concerned, I was present. National MP Dejan Jovanovic resigned because he was elected to office in the executive power. So he could not continue his work in the National Assembly, according to the Law of Conflict of Interest. It is clear, then, that a second MP came to the congregation instead. On the agenda of this assembly session is the appointment of a new member of the Committee. The matter is completely clear and consistent. Are you satisfied with your opinion, Miss Jovanovic? You're not satisfied. Then I'd like to make this clear on the day of the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-NS Group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3291	Therefore, pursuant to Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2. - People's messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and attitude 2 - People's messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. It has nothing to do with attitude 3, which speaks of ugly words and insults. Respect is something else. I, gentlemen, respect you if I once tell you what I think, make it clear to you, because I believe for myself that I've made myself clear; then it's some respect, whether we agree or not. But if I make you hear what I'm trying to say ten times, one and the same, then it's no longer a courtesy address; or I don't think I've been clear enough, or that my predecessor from the same political party hasn't made it clear enough what he was going to say, I don't know what he is. In any case, as far as Article 147 is concerned, it was clear to me what Mr Dragan Todorovic was going to say and I agree with him. What it says in Article 147 is really so and there is no need for me to listen ten times the same to realize that Mr. Todorovic was right in that part. Yeah, he was right, but how does this situation work out? Let's see what the target is. If the aim is to reach the opinion of the Government, I will remind you that it has been a practice before, which has been highly respected by all parliamentary clubs, including the SRS, because that was the case, that in the course of the debate in particular, if we did not have the Government's position before, for any reason, this position of the Government could be heard by the government's authorised representatives as a promoter, so that the problem may be resolved in this way. In any case, what has so far been indisputable, in the current course of the debate, is that the Finance Committee could not meet, henceforth he could not take a stand, and so far it was a custom. I'm not saying it has to be, it can be done at the government's session, but it was the custom for an authorised representative of the government to come to the board's scheduled session and plead on all amendments submitted to the draft law. I completely agree with you. So, I don't have any problem with what you're saying. The only problem is what to do now. Is your proposal such that you from the SRS have to come out ten times and say the same thing, which is not disputed in one part of your work, and then ask for a meeting of the Committee, which, apparently, cannot be met if one part of the MPs boycotts a session of the Committee or does not come in sufficient numbers? I don't know what the problem was. If the board can't plead, then it can't. If the board can plead, let them plead. I don't see what would be such a problem. If the minister, who is present on behalf of the Government, representing the Government at the National Assembly's session, can give an opinion on the proposed amendments and say whether a single amendment is accepted or not by the Government, I do not see why it would be a problem to hear it. So, Mr. Todorovic, I don't mind what you said, if you understand me, I just want to hear what the goal is. Is the goal being to outwit us for the next four hours, or is the goal of doing something concrete? Here, I propose that a representative of the Government on the amendments be made known and that we hear a statement on behalf of the Government in relation to each submitted amendment, in the form which the Minister has appointed, so that we can end this moment, if possible, and if not, I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3292	That is possible, and thank you for the construction, Mr. Aligrudic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I ask you to give me your word as chairman of the Finance Committee. Wait a minute, there are four MPs before you. Mr. Markovic is giving up. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Are you, sir, giving up? Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Petar Jojic, then Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 150. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of budgeting, but there are still a number of violations of the Rules of Procedure. The decision in the National Parliament has become a mere improvisation. It is not so easy to go through numerous violations of the Rules of Procedure that individual MPs advertise. Whatever is said, established, that the Constitutional Law is violated, that the Constitutional Law must be respected, that the Constitution must be respected, that the law must be respected, that the Rules of Procedure must be respected, you accept as - never mind. This is the National Assembly. This is the epicenter, this is the main place where the Constitution and the law must be respected. Mr. Albianic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3294	Mr. Batic, would you be so kind as to state the position of Article 150?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3295	I quoted article 150. I know it's hard for you to understand, but be patient, try to understand. Why is that so hard for you? Because you just said there was no quorum at the Finance Committee session, and no one. It can't be locked up like that. That's the wrong conclusion, Mr. Albianic. What should be done, I've warned you many times, that's what Article 9. Constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we still don't have a Constitutional Court. Any debate on legal proposals is unnecessary. This set of legislative proposals will inevitably impair the adoption of a number of individual acts, which may be subject to the assessment of constitutionality. In the Constitutional Court, temporary measures can be sought, such as various laws in the field of tax policy that affect individuals, natural and legal persons, who can seek protection from the Constitutional Court. He's gone. You explain it to us, it will be, but the order of moves is the other way around. We know what needs to be done, Mr. Albianic, first to establish the Constitutional Court, that's the previous question. Secondly, the government is treating Parliament with extreme misrepresentation, with the people's MPs. This is where all the ministers, and the vice president, and the prime minister, were to show their sense of responsibility and respect for the National Assembly. It's not there. New disrespect is that there is no government opinion on amendments to the MPs. They read the budget, submitted the amendments, the government ignores it. It is one of the ignoring relations and disrespect of Parliament, as the highest body of the legislative authority, from the highest authority of the executive authority. Read the Constitution, the government responds to Parliament. This is where the government doesn't answer to anyone. It's not about Parliament. So, the Constitutional Court, ministers, the government's position on amendments, the opinion of the Finance Committee, make it the majority, and if it is not presently, keep the Finance Committee. Do not harm the Rules of Procedure in the work of the Legislative Committee. These are the preconditions to discuss these and other topics. Everything else is past the Rules of Procedure, past the law and past the Constitution. That is what must not be done in Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3296	The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3297	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you a sentence, which I'll conclude, we're all the victim here, obviously, of some misunderstanding that exists between two participants in the ruling DSS coalition and G17 plus. All members of the board, which I thank for their co-operation and for their very constructive relationship with the agreement on the appointment and maintenance of the session, can confirm this. The first misunderstanding in the Committee's work was made by proposing a candidate for governor of the NBS. On the proposal of the Vice-President of the Committee of Radet Obradovic, using the analogy set out in Article 77 on how the Committee's session is scheduled, we received a request from six signatories, whose proposal with the governor's biography, as well as by all members of the Committee, to schedule a session of the Committee at which we would propose a candidate. At the proposal of Mr Tomislav Nikolic to schedule a session at least two days in advance, as chairman of the Committee, that's what I did. Then we attended the first, very unpleasant, farsi, which explains what I'm talking about, and that's the misunderstanding or the unresolved accounts that are being cleared up through the Committee of the Assembly, and, here, and the budget. He was late for a G17 plus session and had no majority, a former member of the G17 with a frozen membership, so the current governor did not receive the support of the Committee. Such a decision, called upon on the proposal and signed by six members of the Committee, was later treated in the paper as a pointless session of the Committee, as if it had been scheduled by the opposition, i.e. the SRS, or anyone else. No, it was scheduled for a proposal from the ruling coalition and members of the Committee from the ruling coalition. The second farce, which I didn't want to repeat about the budget, was held on the draft law on audit. Since the ruling coalition now, due to the resignation of members from G17, does not have a majority, has put them, or the ruling coalition, into leaving the Committee at a speedy pace, not to say a harsher word, at a time when they could be overvoted by the majority of the opposition that is in the Committee. So if you don't have a majority to schedule a session, use the analogy given to you by the Rules of Procedure. It's absolutely not about the boycott, and that's why I'm going out. Very constructively, and to Mr. Radet Obradovic, deputy president, I said we have no intention of obstructing the work of the Assembly, on the contrary, to work very constructively. By planting it, where the governor was ridiculed by being promised a place, and in fact you didn't agree, you didn't trust each other whether to stay in office for just another year, so complete the mandate, which is pointless, or to choose as a new one, as far as possible, you tried through the Committee to settle the accounts. That was ridiculous, unserious, and I'm ashamed, as a member of the Committee, of what you're doing through the Committee. In another situation, I felt uncomfortable not agreeing to provide the majority. Today's visit to the funeral of Sinisha Aksentijevic, one of the founders of the SRS, was the reason why we didn't show up, but if we were there, the ruling coalition is obliged to secure the quorum. Why it was more likely for a member of the G17 to first sit in the government and leave your coalition, that's a question you don't have an answer to, or the answer is contained in your uncleared accounts and misunderstandings, which you're trying to move on to the Committee, which is inadmissible. This speaks of the importance that you give to the Committee in resolving serious issues, which is also transmitted to the debate. This is your irresponsible relationship with the Committee, I simply do not allow, not on my behalf, but on behalf of all the members of the Committee, and from the DS, and from the LDP and the NS, because they have all worked very correctly and acted on the established captains and arrangements. We exchanged the captain's appointment, according to the president's decisions on the work of the Assembly, at nine o'clock, so at one o'clock, it didn't work out. Another very important thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3298	Mrs. Tabakovic, time has passed for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3299	I don't owe you an apology, but I have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3300	You violated the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3301	I received, like all members of the Committee, a letter from the President of the Assembly that we are obliged to schedule a meeting of the Committee within three days. My colleagues, how long have you been notified of each session of the Assembly we hold here? You hear it on TV when it's being held. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3302	Mrs Tabakovic, the topic is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is not the subject of the governor; it will also come on the agenda. Thank you for taking care of the Central Bank. As far as I'm aware, relations in the coalition between the Democratic Party of Serbia and G 17 plus are quite good. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3303	Article 104(2) You know what, the board president is required to schedule a board meeting. As chairman of the Legislative Committee in the last term, whenever I found that I had no quorum, for whatever reason, I tried to schedule the session again, and again, and again, to be clear of my conscience and to show anyone how much I called the session of the Committee to try to reach the quorum and to get an answer to the question that is being asked here. The question wasn't what you were talking about, Mrs. Tabakovic. The question was whether there was a session to discuss amendments to the draft budget law and other accompanying laws and whether a representative of the government could have made a statement at the session before this session. You had to, you had to, no matter what you were in the opposition party, try to schedule a session and the only proof that you were right would be shown here and shown a certain number of calls to those sessions, except for those two you admitted to me, when you spoke to me, on which this agenda was on which amendments to the budget law and to the other accompanying laws could be discussed. When you show us that you've been working hard to this day, since Monday, to schedule a session of the Committee... Well, you are obliged to try, it says in that same member of the Rules of Procedure to which Mr Dragan Todorovic is called, which I gave him for the right, that the government is in charge and that the competent committee is obliged to declare the amendments to the law that has been filed. Therefore, I argue that Mr Dragan Todorovic was right and I claim that we are in a specific situation, which we must address. I've made a proposal to resolve this, and you're telling me about other points of the agenda and some other misunderstandings at the Finance Committee's session. I'm not interested in that right now, nor was it the subject of conversation for a moment. You should follow the discussion carefully, so I wouldn't report to the Rules of Procedure, under Article 104(2), because that's how you insult my dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3304	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3305	Mr. Aligrudic, I respect the Rules of Procedure. I've waited a long time for a replica, although I could, like you, report to the Rules of Procedure and replicate. Basically, I'm pleased with your answer. The fact that I'm right, it's unequivocal, it's unequivocally written in the Rules of Procedure, and I read it, but it shows that the Rules of Procedure is being violated and that you would have to find a way out of this situation. Also, it shows one more thing. The reason why I immediately, when I went out for the pay phone, said that I was not speaking to the chairman, not to the current chairman, but to Mr Albianić, and that I absolutely did not ask him for any comment, is that if I now thought about what he said after my presentation and what you said, Mr Albianic would be in an extremely difficult position. I just don't know how he could explain to himself what he was trying to explain to me. How can you be so good at the coalition that the president of a parliamentary group, much bigger than yours, says you're violating the Rules of Procedure? You abuse your position as chairman, trying to convince me that the objections I make as opposition MP are not in line with the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Albianic, from now on, so until this assembly's term is over, and you're chairing in the situations when I go out for a pay phone, I'm asking you not to give me any explanations; don't even try, refrain from it, because you've shown that you're not capable, I believe, because you're scrupulously oriented, I'm not going to say any other reasons. So just make sure you don't break the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3306	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3307	Mr. Aligrudic, you didn't understand what the subject was. The point is why the chairman of the Finance Committee cannot come out here with the opinion of the Finance Committee on the amendments submitted. That's how you see it. According to the Rules of Procedure, this is not a necessary condition for the debate, but the government's opinion is important and necessary. You, Mr. Albianic, seem to have no communication with your members of the Finance Committee. Is it written somewhere that you should try to convene the board three times a day, and aren't you enough with written invitations to hold a session of the Finance Committee? You can't be held accountable for the fact that the Finance Committee hasn't taken up the shortfall of the call. That's what the facts are about. It's a real thing. The Secretary of the Committee, thank God, is alive and well, as are your members. It is really inadmissible that the non-cooperation within the coalition and the attempt to shorten this debate on amendments, by rejecting one number of amendments, move on to another, and not mention at any time that the draft budget has arrived and has been scheduled for discussion within two days. Is that allowed? I really don't want to bring it into the same plane. We, in our preparation, have jumped to submit the amendments in a short time, and how are you going to solve the problem within the coalition and come up with a unique attitude, i.e. to provide the majority for the Committee, is a question that I do not need to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3308	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3309	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the president of the National Assembly was elected, promised the citizens of Serbia and, at the same time, the MPs that the National Assembly would exercise control over the government's work. As you can see, it's in practice absolutely not so. It is not clear to me, and I am thinking of how the courage of the ruling coalition would approach the debate in this way, that the government had this relationship with the National Assembly and with the MPs. We've just heard that the government's representatives are going to give us an explanation here. I don't know who the government is here, and one minister can't represent the government unless the government is behind the individual acts proposed by the MPs and the National Assembly. According to the provisions of Article 147. Rules of Procedure, what did Ms. Verica Radeta, a Serbian Radical Party MP, say to Serbian citizens? Dear Serbian citizens, you have no legal government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot allow myself to accept this view of the Government, that the Government can violate the Constitution, that the Government can be kidnapped, that the President of the National Assembly does not insist and does not turn out that the Prime Minister and all ministers are sitting here today, in front of the MPs, and that they answer the questions asked. If it is in Article 147. The Rules of Procedure provide that the Government is required to give its reasons and its opinion on amendments submitted by MPs as representatives of the people, the government violates the Constitution day by day. In Article 99, it is the Parliament's jurisdiction to choose the Government, oversee its work, etc. How do you monitor, Mr. President, explain to the MPs how you oversee the work of the government? The government kidnapped itself from the National Assembly, she placed herself above the National Assembly. The MPs are only here to perform government orders. It can't. Ladies and gentlemen, our previous colleague talked about it, we don't have the Constitutional Court, not just the Constitutional Court, we don't have the Cassation Court, we don't have the Court of Appeal, we don't have elected judicial authorities, which were the previous issue in adopting this budget and discussing the budget. When it comes to the work of the government, it is the government that is obliged to carry out the tasks of the National Assembly. The argument you heard earlier, I will not repeat it, is well explained by representatives and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party - if one act is rejected, it has one category, but if the act is rejected, it has a completely different category. What you're saying -- you refuse to, excuse me, please, colleague, you're a lawyer, if refused, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party on that basis have the right to speak of each amendment for 15 minutes and you've got nothing here. You'll just lose time. You are projecting the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party here. You used the maneuvering space when we were at our MP's funeral from the Serbian Radical Party of Aksentijevic, so here we are talking about some things. It should be, first of all, that the government respects the Constitution and the law. I don't want to repeat that, it would be excessive, but if you refuse the amendment of one MP, gentlemen of the government, you are required to give an explanation, because I want to know why you were right and that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party answer you to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I could tell you here for five days about the Constitution, about this Rules of Procedure and other laws and rights, but I must tell you that, unfortunately, it surprises me that the MPs from the current majority of the democratic bloc, the legalists, they violate the Constitution, they violate the Rules of Procedure, they break the law. How can you explain this to the citizens of Serbia? Explain now why you have not given a valid explanation for hundreds of amendments. When you refuse an individual act, gentlemen, give an explanation, that we know for what reasons, whether you were right or wrong. Therefore, there is a harsh violation of the Constitution and the law. As the predecessor said earlier, we don't have a Constitutional Court, there's no one to control you, and that's why you're being violent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3310	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs were right, and those who said it was necessary for the government to give their opinion on amendments of the MPs, and those who, like me, said that it was not mandatory for the Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, since this leadership and this parliamentary majority respect this assembly, we have asked the government to declare amendments to the MPs. In the next 15 to 20 minutes, we will receive a written stance from the Government on each of the amendments submitted by the MPs. I'm setting a half hour break, after half an hour, we're back to work. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 10 to 15 minutes, the government's opinion will be multiplied and divided. We can continue to work on the amendments, so the government's opinion can arrive later, or we can wait another 15 minutes for you to be shared with the government's opinion, and then we can continue our work. I suggest that the minister deliver the government's opinion and that we continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3312	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to inform you that at today's telephone session in the afternoon, the government has been considering amendments and I will tell you the decision that has been made. As regards the budget law, the following amendments have been adopted. First, the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin, which reads - in Section 3, Chapter 3.8, function 110, economic classification 424 is increasing and is said to be - 23,900,000 dinars, which is part of the assets of this appraisal, amounting to 12 million dinars, for the realisation of the Action Programme and the systematisation of new jobs in the function of Decada Roma. At the same time, in Section 21 - Function 070, the amount of social security benefits from the budget is reduced by these 12 million. The second amendment that has been accepted is also an amendment to Article 5. The bill, submitted by MP Arsen Đuric, reads: - in Article 5, Section 16 - Function 473, economic classification 451 - behind the words "top and bottom of Podunavlje", Zlatibor added. The rest remains unchanged. The government also accepted the amendment of National MP Miloljub Albianic to Article 5, which reads: "In Article 5, Section 24.6 "The Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education", with item 423 - contracted services, transfers amount of 3.300,000 dinars to item 511 – "Builds and construction facilities". Also, in the second position of this amendment, in Article 5, Section 24.6 of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, paragraph 423 of the contracted service, transfers amount of 2,200,000 dinars to item 512 – "machines and equipment". Other amendments submitted by MPs to the draft budget law were not accepted by the Government. When it comes to a package of tax laws, the government accepted an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the amendment was submitted by the MP... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: It is not on the agenda now. )......................................................................................................... Oliver Dulic, so that's what he says - in Article 6(2), after saying "computer"...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3313	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I have to tell you that there's a point on the agenda regarding the Budget Law, so we'll talk about it later. Thank you very much. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have learned, at least, the fate of the amendments submitted by the MPs, or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, we have no reason why the amendments submitted by the MPs were accepted or rejected. To say that you have succeeded in some minimum of the conditions foreseen by the Rules of Procedure to respect and that is all. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS changes the essence of the draft budget law. Before I move on to the subject, I would not like the minister to go out for this pay phone and boast that the Ministry of Finance has done a great job of doing the draft budget law, as they are very expedient, because, behold, it takes us Members of Parliament seven days to review the material, so when we need so much time, as it is only the Minister, or the Ministry of Finance that has to make up this draft budget law. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've ever been a MP before, but as a minister, I know for sure, you have a complete cabinet, with unlimited technical and human resources. The MP doesn't have it. The MP, eventually, can get one computer, waiting in line to make amendments to some draft law, in this case, on the draft budget law. Don't brag about it. The National Assembly is in a certain way, because of this way of submitting the draft budget law, humiliated, as well as the MPs. Nevertheless, the Serbian Radical Party, respecting the Rules of Procedure, wrote a number of amendments to the draft budget law. What does the amendment apply to Article 1 which I submitted on behalf of the SRS? I wanted to prove to the ruling majority, and to you, Mr. Minister, that the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, does not have to be in the deficit, and that in a good way, respecting restrictive policy and reducing public spending, you can easily have the bulky side of the Republic of Serbia's budget and make peace with all budgetary users, directly and indirectly. In your final statement after the debate in principle, Mr. Minister, you did not answer one question -- what about those 17 billion dinars of neutral funds, which were proposed in the original draft budget law? It's impossible to change something that's already over. You can change the future, you can't change the past. At the very least, this final presentation of yours was more of a political, populist story than the address of the minister to the MPs. In article 1, you predicted that budget revenues amounted to 581 billion 841 million, etc., and that the total expenditure of the budget should be 595 billion 517 million and that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is 13 billion dinars in deficit. In the next table, Mr. Minister, we see that the deficit, as you have suggested, is much greater than 13 billion, because it is said that 50 billion 948 million dinars will finance from the paper of values that will be broadcast by the Republic of Serbia. Could someone in their right mind say that broadcasting paper is the value of current budget income and that it's being managed as such, or that broadcasting of securities of value is the same thing as printing money, or the primary show, because it's nothing more than that. Apparently, you're saying that it covers one of these primary emissions, i.e. printing money, lies in the revenues generated by the privatisation of Mobtel, and as far as I know, the revenues generated from privatisation, not only Mobtel, but also all other enterprises that have been in social and new constitutions in state and public property, are the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Minister, one simple question - if we already have the funds of privatisation, why do they serve us to cover the printing of securities of value, which we then pay with certain interest and certain costs, and on those funds deposited with business banks we receive very small, not to say much less interest than those we give as a state. It would be the same as leaving someone's money on interest of 0.5 or 1%, and then in debt with interest of 12-15 or 20%. Who's gonna benefit from that? The one holding the funds and the same funds gives you the interest they pay, in this case, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, on the revenue side, this amendment envisions 599 billion 544 million, including 17 billion of non-performing income from earlier years. Mr. Minister, I must say that there is no National Investment Fund in this amendment, because there is, in principle, no such thing. We have so far had different budget laws, which even had items for 2007, 2008 and 2009, where the item was - NIP. The question arises - this NIP is already in the budget laws that have been passed, in amendments and additions to the 2006 Budget Law, and it is not in 2007, in your draft budget, although you were under obligation, under the Budgetary System Act, to honour and put into this draft budget law. So the NIP is nothing more than a five-year plan for the ministries to spend on funds. To make the matter worse, that the ministries will spend no one else's resources, but the 44 billion-dollar plan and programme, as foreseen in this budget, will bring the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the competent minister, means by a regulation. Isn't this the job of the legislative authority and isn't it the job of the MP and his right in the first place, that for every penny you plan to spend knows the purpose? In this case, we only have sublaws, which will define how anyone likes, probably many. Depending on who is in power in certain local self-governments, funds will be received from funds, which means those who are favorites of parties in power, party members. We do not have a clear criterion of how we will spend NIP funds, so we believe that they should not be in this budget, at least until you pass the NIP law, at the time when the Serbian Parliament adopts and before it adopts the budget law, in order to know who will have the funds. The amendment also provides for the payment of old foreign savings of 21 billion dinars. It was accepted, we didn't want to change it, but we set exactly the purpose in the bulky side of the budget, so that there would be no later abuse, because we have such experience that even though some of the items were only in the text section, according to some plan and programme of the ministry, they were later in favour of Serbian citizens and were not settled. An eight-billion-dollar loan for Serbia's economic rebirth has also been provided for, so the party is calmed down when citizens are concerned. When it comes to subsidies, I think it's time for this government to finally stop with bad policy when it comes to agriculture. You first introduced VAT on agricultural products. You've introduced a retro-material for agriculture, too, VAT. The subsidies that the agricultural producers had so far, up to one, have been lifted. You mention them and remember the farmer only during election campaigns, when you promise about 100 euros per hectare for now, and then forget it when you come to power, etc. The excuse for your care for agricultural producers is probably that you have identified certain funds, worth 11 billion dinars, for development programmes in agriculture. As these programmes of development in agriculture have passed to the previous government, and this has continuity with the previous government, you will hear from the following example. Credits for agricultural production could only be obtained by those who were members of the political parties in power, and while the past government existed - the most members of G17 plus. So you don't even have a criterion of how you're going to give certain loans to farmers, but you're giving it to the minister's right to decide for himself, to define the funds and to determine who gets what. This amendment provides for a fairer distribution of funds for farmers. We've increased subsidies for farmers, and only by the criteria that no one can dispute, which is a agricultural product. So, the more they produce, the more it'll be worth and the more money it can get, not that individuals have funds that will often and unintendedly spend, especially if we don't have any control over whether these budget loans, obtained by the Ministry, are being spent on purpose. I will remind you, Mr. Minister, that from 2001 to 2004, the Democratic Party was extremely celebrated with the loans given to agricultural producers, when you credited and the funds were allocated to sheep farming, and the then minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic was given credit for agricultural production and opened a nightclub. Well, that's what it looks like when DS and DOS, no matter what mutation they've experienced, spends budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3315	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3316	Dear President, honourable MPs, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 231, according to which MPs, members of national minorities, have the right to use their language and their letter in the work of the National Assembly. On February 14th, Mr Pastor Balint and I, at the constitutive session, applied for our names to be printed in Hungarian, in accordance with Hungarian. We've attached photocopies of ID cards and photocopies from birth certificates. When I took over my ID a few minutes ago, I had to realize that my name, regardless of this fact, was written in a Cyrillic letter, which, on the one hand, is against the law, because it is contrary to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and, on the other hand, it is contrary to the spelling of the Hungarian language. So I ask you to write Mr. Pastor's IDs in accordance with our request, since his identity is not yet complete, and I am returning this ID to you, with a request to correct this for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3317	Thank you, you're right. It will be your and Mr. Pastor's ID written in Hungarian. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3318	Mr. President, I'm reporting under Article 226. I have the right, as a National MP, to explain by the President of the National Assembly, or other officials. I am asking if all MPs have received the same material today from the Legislative Committee. We have received a report from the Legislative Committee in which only three amendments are listed as legal and the others are not mentioned at all. You here now, announcing MP Veroljub Arsic, said the Legislative Committee had given its opinion that his amendment was legally possible. There's no mention of that anywhere in the report. Also, Minister Cvetkovic said in his explanation earlier that the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted amendments by MP Srdjan Sain and MPs Arsen Đuric and Miloljub Albianic at today's session. I must say immediately that these two amendments to the People's MPs, Miloljub Albianic and Arsen Đuric, are not mentioned at all in this report of the Legislative Committee as legally possible. I wonder if there is any other piece of paper from the Legislative Committee, or is this the only one that the MPs have received?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3319	You'll get an answer right away. At its June 19th session, the Legislative Committee gave a list of amendments that are legally possible. You hold in your hand the June 21st supplement, when only three amendments were considered; all the other amendments were discussed at the June 19th session and you received the report as well as all the other MPs. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3320	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is clear from the way you formulated the draft budget bill for 2007, that you cannot accept the proposal that we as a parliamentary group insist on. I think you reject this proposal not because you don't think what we're thinking, but because, practically, there's no way to come up with that proposal. What exactly is this about? It is the funds that the Ministry of Finance allocates to the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The budget envisions slightly more than three billion dinars, 3,100,000 dinars. The problem is that the Ministry of Finance is bound by the Health Insurance Act, which guarantees special rights to non-insured persons on the basis of contributions as employees. It's about kids up to 15, students up to 26, pregnant, old, sick. More than 900,000 people in Serbia have the legal right to health care and all services arising from their status. We cannot vote in favour of the budget law, and in doing so we can violate the Health Insurance Act. This amendment recognizes our intention to end this political demagogy, which is so present in our political life. I'm sorry, the paper suffers everything, and so does the view that citizens have the right to free health care, but it is written in one law. In the second law, which we are discussing today, there is no such thing. The government has suggested that, by voting for the 2007 budget law, we break the Health Insurance Act. That is why we have proposed to the Ministry of Finance that in the draft law, which we will declare in the voting day, respect all those laws that the Ministry of Finance, the Government and us as MPs and as citizens commit. Among other things, the Health Insurance Act. It is true that 900,000 people have the right to health care, but these people have the right to be told the truth -- that Serbia is unable to fund those rights on which it declaredly insists and that we need to change something in this country. We can't just go over the fact that we're going to leave people down, in a position where I can't solve my life's problems in any way. I repeat, 900,000 people - up to 15, students up to 26 years old, old, sick, pregnant. The state must create preconditions for respecting laws that it itself insists on or must create laws that it is capable of achieving on its own. In this way, we cannot support the draft budget law, because it would violate those laws that we care very much about. If we're supposed to save, let's save, but don't let it be on the sick, on pregnant women. If we have to work, let's say we have to do more work, but we can't vote for the laws by following some rules that have been inherited and that, among other things, very clearly prove that things aren't the same in this country as this government would like to present them. I repeat, I understand that you cannot accept this because there is no money, but as finance minister, you must tell the citizens of Serbia. When you do so, when the Prime Minister does so, when we do so as the Assembly, we will be able to change the country together in such a way that in the future they will open up the right opportunities, which are today, practically, inexplicable, the rights set out in the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3321	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3322	I will deal with this amendment, in a unique manner, with the previous amendment of Mr Arsic, as it concerns the same matter that is regulated by Article 1 of this Law. I think it would be good for MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, before they engage in these amendments, to have insight into something that should be an introduction to consider, in general, what is the total volume of public spending. Since 2001, every budget law has differed, even by methodology. That's what I have to tell you. Once, the reason for this difference was the fact, allegedly, that there was a surplus. Second time, some new stuff about showing up. The third time was some third reason, and now we have some fifth reason. How's that supposed to be? It should be so that the budget law shows all revenues falling under the category of public revenue and that all expenditures are seen. In 2001, Djelic said that the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses is not good because it does not show everything, but something is hidden. He forgot to say then that the component of the budget was also a consolidated public spending balance. We don't have a consolidated public spending balance today. Something that's supposed to look like it's a memorandum of government policy and something else. However, these are very expensive books, in which nothing is seen again. So we have a situation to get a big book, by the system, so that nothing can be seen. Here we have something like a projection, which is not in nominal terms, but in some percentage, so it's said to be a larger social product for so much and so much compared to last year. And as long as it was last year, it must already be known, because it's been half a year since last year. There's no record of that. We're given information about exports and other things, but there's no real view. We only have some mathematical methods to come to the conclusion of how much participation public consumption is in the gross social product and, of course, we can all be wrong. If it's going to be 35, 45, 55, 65, there's going to be everyone wrong, for one reason -- there's no information there. I'd like to draw your attention that three years ago, the methodology for calculating gross social product was changed, so that it would appear as democratic fluid and other things. Then we've got one common sense problem that's come up in the past two days. At the start of the budget debate, we found out there was some kind of deficit. Then yesterday we found out there was no deficit, that it was covered. What's it covered with? A special member regulates how the deficit is covered. Well, if that deficit is covered, then why are you showing it in article 1 of this bill? It's a new fact that happened in these two days. You have to balance that first table and say -- total income so much, total expenditure so much, the deficit doesn't occur, there's no need to cover the deficits, to show the way the deficit will be covered. Furthermore, it's very unclear in this budget what the funds have been transferred, and there's nothing that's been passed on. As a result, we get this farce, which is the 1st member of the government's interpretation, where the revenues are said to be 581 billion, and the costs are 595 billion. There's been some shortage of 13 billion, and that 13 billion is covered by the government's debt of 65 billion, so it spends 50 on some liabilities, and that's how it's done. If that's how the job is done, then the total cost of this budget is not 595, but over 700 billion. It's formally legal, but by system -- I'm going from Nis to Nisko Banja via Belgrade. As soon as such a methodology is applied, attention is drawn to what is happening and what is unacceptable. Mr. Arsic's amendment has insight into something called reality. If such revenues are expected to be so much, then so much funding should also be distributed because this is the total volume of public spending. There are no deficits and no these games. It's a whole other system. Probably, the correct figure of the total volume of public spending followed by the budget should be 707 billion dinars. That amount comes when you analyse Article 5's first position, so you can see that besides 646 billion, there are another 71 billion, which are so-called. the original revenues of the Authority, and it must be included, and this represents the total volume of public consumption. But with our budget, what's been going on in the system for a few years -- whatever you want, you can put it on, you can break it into different items, just so it doesn't show. I do not want to diminish the importance of Mr Jovanovic's amendments. Everything that's a government obligation has some nominal term in money and should be included in the budget. However, the legal-technical amendment could not be acceptable, because where it increased by so much, elsewhere it must be reduced, in order for the amendment to be complete. So, I don't want to interpret it as a big remark, but I'm counting on the government, given that legalism comes first, this should be taken into account and that, eventually, change its position and respect this and similar amendments that are intended to make the country's commitment into the budget law. I'd like to clarify a few more things for the next amendment. In this budget law, we have some positions where future costs are planned and that there is no legal basis, there is no law, there is no regulation, there is no programme, but it is put in place as a reservation, but with a certain purpose, which is defined by the budget law, which is prohibited. So that's forbidden. But it happens to this budget and something even more dangerous, something that represents a legal obligation, which is not in the budget. Let me remind you, one of these examples is what is mentioned in the amendment. Another example is the law, because we in legal traffic have a Law on the assistance of families indicted before the UN tribunal. That law implies some of the obligations of the state. You don't have that position at all, under that law. Why don't you have it? Because Vučetic misused the position of the President of the Court, so instead of eventually undoing or putting out of force an individual act that was passed under a law whose constitutionality is valued, he made a solution suspending the entire law. It doesn't matter what he did, you can't expect anything better from him, because he doesn't know much about those trees. But how does the government not admit that there is a law? You're saying there's no law. You've gone even further than Vučetic. Vučetic said -- there is a law, but it will not apply until the constitutionality assessment is carried out, and, behold, three years waits for the assessment of constitutionality. To those who advocate lustration, here is Vučetic, the first, and you can peel him immediately; he has abused the President of the Constitutional Court to play the law. I have another example of lustration. Since 2004, nothing has changed more significantly in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So there were three warnings. Before that, three warnings were made per hour, within one hour, in the National Assembly, and there were situations that went by three warnings, three exclusions. So it's a fact of fact, and practice has shown that the previous president of the National Assembly, in the female race, has been a mass violation of the Rules of Procedure. So there can be a discussion, a controversy about something. So when you're looking for money for lustration, lustrate these two specimens, you don't need any procedure to run, it's all obvious and it's all clear. So in this session -- one reminder, in the previous convocation -- two or three, I know that Vukic paid the fine. That's where they call the first DOS, an hour's work of the National Assembly -- three minimum notices. What did the lady say? She talked - I follow the rules, I follow the law. The point of this lustration is to punish those who adhered to the law, because they allegedly misappropriately applied it. Parliament Speaker Dulic shows a big difference compared to that of the female president who mass-abused business rights to punish everything in order. There's evidence of lustration and it's a plastic example of how it happens. Of course, it's nothing. I don't advocate lustration, because it's orthodox nonsense, which comes from a teacher who wanted to get some journal for a book, so let's write something about lustration, so the entire Law School laughed when he read that book. That's another question. So, in the draft budget law, we don't have everything that has to be, and why does that have to be? It has to be legal and it has to be sworn in. On what oath? This is where we were sworn by that little Djelic, now democracy has come, now we'll be getting public procurement, and since the public procurement into the law, the biggest theft has been going on. We have to privatize our economy, 88 companies are sold. So, all of you who don't work, that you know where to pick up, because it's the culprits why you don't work and there's them, that you know. He's in coalition with him. Just to remind you, he was one of the directors of the Privatisation Agency and his name was Branko Pavlovic. I mean the one who robbed the small shareholders. You see, in 2004, someone put him in charge, and some privatisations were raised. Trapped people from the Privatisation Committee to drive out justice and came to some man who bought some company, so they say, you see, crime, and he says, you know what, while I'm the director of the Privatisation Agency, there's nothing that can happen to that man, because he's a much bigger friend to me, and I respect that much more than any law. There are other people from the Privatization Committee of the previous assembly. You see how the law applies in a democratic direction. So, in Article 1, we don't have all the income, we don't have all the expenses. We have one wrong math, a display, because our budget isn't this big.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3323	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3324	Please, Mr. Dulic, 40 and some amendments, 15 minutes later, time will be just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3325	Don't worry, I'm ready. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3326	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, which reads: "The funds needed to finance the budget deficit and expenditure based on the repayment of debt and acquisition of financial assets are 64.6 billion and will be provided from the privatisation income, loans, donations and transferred funds of the previous year." The first position is quite enough to question the full budget. So, in the same pot, as one and the same source, you have privatisation incomes, loans, donations and transferred funds from the previous year. First of all, I ask the Minister to experience all the criticisms we raise, all the questions we ask, all the objections we have, in the most well-intentioned way, and that what cannot be seen from the mass of obligation. We are Serbian radicals, people of good and sincere intentions, who, even as an opposition, want to contribute to the improvement of this law, but I don't think that's possible. You know, you've got that commercial for the Meridian Bank, which read, you come in, you come out, and it's over, so the people skillfully translated into -- you come in, you come out, and you're done. A commercial about this budget and a story about it, not that it's not on the level of that bad commercial where you're told a lie, but there's something much worse. In this case, the budget story goes beyond the bad foreign budget. The silence of the bad side of the budget comes first and foremost to play with the greatest fear of the Serbian people, and that greatest fear of the Serbian people is called inflation. Not wanting the people to think that the budget deficit is so large and that the country, which is expensive, inefficient and too massive, with its apparatus, is funded by the printing of money, here we are being served the story that this deficit is small, allegedly, 13 billion and that it does not actually exist, that it is covered by privatisation revenues. I think it's the height of insolence towards both the MPs and the people. It cannot, as Mr Krasic said, cover all your marifetluke. The moment you made the budget as unique and replaced the consolidated account of the Treasury, apparently, by showing all the costs, all the receipts and all the expenses, you simply kept quiet and that's reasonable and logical, because the government always does that, that you actually continued the practice of printing money. The primary show, which has been talked about so much, continues today in one specific way. In the end, I'm going to say one literal way, which is called stealing the final money from the primary show, and I'm going to illustrate it to you with very specific data, and it's going to end with criminal charges against those responsible for it. What happens today is called making money through surrogates. So the people don't run away from some economic terms, so they ask what the deficit is, it's simply a lack, when you spend more than you earn. For the state, when the annual budget turns out to be a deficit, it means that it spends more money than it produces in one year. What does that deficit mean? This means that we want to spend more on many agencies, on many of those specialized and regular services, that we want to rent all those political friendships by creating big companies, giving them regular government jobs, by pouring funds out of the hands and pockets of a large number of poor taxpayers into the pockets of a small number of privileged, who have privileged information about these financial transactions and this primary show, about what's called printing money and deficit. They seem like hard words, but it's never a word that's hard how hard the work is. It's never as hard what I say as what you do. What are you doing? You're telling us you're covering the deficit with privatisation revenues and mentioning a billion and five hundred of Mobtel. Last year, 2006, the sale of our joint inheritance resulted in 3.2 billion, and that is: 1.5 of Telenor for Mobi 063, 320m euros from the sale of the licence to Telekom Austria, 122 million -- the sale of the Pannonian Bank, 385m -- the sale of the Vojvodjanska Banka, and not to count further, these are just significant privatisations. Why are we only talking about billions and a half of the capital, or property, Telenor? What about the rest? Under the line, behind the line, around, around, in foreign exchange reserves. Why do we speak selectively and partially? Are we planning on using some other similar fraud called the National Investment Plan, a fraud to the extent that regulations, I repeat, not the Subsidy Act, are helping foreign direct investment, agriculture and so forth? It's unconstitutional. The subsidy law must ensure equal access to all, by equal criteria, and that is not legal. On the other hand, it is illegal for a variety of types of housing loans to be granted only to young people, e.g. up to 45 years of age, and it is said that capital sales go for capital purposes. Well, it's not. You sell the treasure to all of us, and you only share it with some. This 3.2 billion you've shown as 1.5 billion this time. What's the criterion? When Mr Djelic took the first year to work the budget, he said - the revenues from privatisation are, you know, one time, so we won't put them into the budget. What is it today? Today, the law which selectively introduces privatisation revenues is in force. What are you doing with the others? Is there any other place where it's accounted for, or is this place here, and at the same time you're telling us that deficits will be financed from both loans and donations and transferred from funds from the previous year. On the one hand, you have a privatisation income; I have some property and I'm holding it in the corner, and I'm in debt to credit. Where's the economic logic? To borrow loans, and our old ones were smart when they said debt was a bad friend. It's not always. Any citizen or legal person shall be charged when the production that makes such a profit, profits, can single out a portion to which the credit is returned. So, borrowing a country or an individual to invest in technology, in capital long-term investment, is not a bad thing if we know under what conditions, what deadline, who we get from and who we give to. That's not in this budget. In the previous version of that fat book, obtained from the last, technical government, was one part that contained codes, such as the party that left it to the next government, for several loans -- only deadlines of maturity. However, when have these loans been taken and under what conditions? What interest? What deadline? Who are you going to report to if not us here? Through which document, if not through the budget. The fact that you don't have public debt management, and in 18.6.2005, you passed a law on that, let the citizens judge it. I'm asking, how can you get the information out, so I asked it to be deleted, that at a time when we have privatisation incomes, which we don't know what we're going to do, we're going to be in debt with loans. That doesn't really make sense, because we're carrying debts to future generations. We boast that we've received extraordinary writings, in due time, from the Paris Club, and later, with London, that didn't go very easy. However, government debt has reached, so public debt, state-guaranteed, a figure of nearly 10 billion. We're not talking about private debt. Ten billion euros. How can citizens or less experts bring to terms with the figures that you are exporting? Is there somewhere, does anyone know if there's any record in the budget of how much our gross social product was made in the last year and on what basis this budget was made? I'm saying that if we were to do a survey of the people present here, except for the MPs of the SRS who know that, maybe three people could answer that, and some people who do that professionally. Do they believe that our gross social product is 24.3 billion euros? They don't believe it. When you need to show that the gross social product is high, you bring it out in dollars. You owe your debts in euros because the euro rate is higher, and then you budget in dinars so that no parallel review can be made. It looks like this, over eight billion euros we spend through the budget, gross social product only by math came to a value of 24.3 billion. In 2001, it was $11.9 billion. Its average growth is 5.5 to 6%, just in one year -- about 9%. What kind of arithmetical, geometric progression could have increased to this number? Krasic spoke of you changing the methodology. Yes, they were brought into the account of the gross social product financial services and trade, as something that allegedly increases the total gross social product, that our misery looks smaller, and the budget given in dinars -- that inflation doesn't look so big to us. Inflation behind the records issued by the National Bank, inflation behind the criminal interest on non-payment of tax obligations, as the state never hurts at what it should take -- is over 20%. That penalty interest is about 23%. I am responsibly saying that this is why the projected salary growth is 20%, and that the story of 6.5%, i.e. single-digit inflation, is a story for those who are not lucky to be attached to the state budget, such as political friends and those powerful men who, on financial malfeasances and who also know those secrets about loans, about their reprogramme and about printing money as the primary show that we are facing today, are earning money. The finals are all robbery of cash from the Treasury, or on the way from the Coin of Money to the Treasury Directorate at the National Bank. Not that it's not enough to print surrogates, and remember, sometimes those surrogates were food stamps, but if you can buy them concrete goods, it's money, it's not a bon, it's a paper of value. Today you have an example of losing bills in huge amounts on the way...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3327	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3328	I'll continue at the second presentation, just to finish the sentence. ... to lose the money that was printed on the road from Kovnica to the National Bank, but also to move past every logic and common sense, reportedly a number of bills on which the error was observed. You can do it today, and I'll explain it to you in some next call.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3329	Thank you very much. Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3330	Dear People's MPs, I'll be very brief. I'd like to look at two or three things, with less digits and probably with a little less inspiration. At first, I wanted to say, not to remain in the atmosphere one feeling that the budget has something to do with printing new money, with the Coin of Money, etc., that the budget really has nothing to do with it. What was evaluated here as the basis for printing money, therefore, that procurement of non-financial assets, is basically much more prosalytic. This is, in fact, about investing financial resources in financial institutions, which are now being placed, either as loans within agriculture, or as loans under housing. It's called the acquisition of financial assets because the state remains the owner of that property and that's why it's not considered to be consumption, which is why it's located below the line, so it has nothing to do with printing money, or even those securities from the values that were spoken of. Those securities, they're also given here as some kind of mystification, in two exposures. I want to say that it is true that there are securities of value printed by the budget, however, their volume is very low and goes below 1% of the budget; they are only recycled, and they are used to maintain the liquidity of the securities market. We're heading towards a reduction, to cut that number down. One more, I won't keep you. The budget has been made fully in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and according to the methodology provided by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3331	Do any of the other parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go. Replica, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3332	The president has doubts whether I'm right or wrong. Thank you. I really want to be constructive. Mr. Minister, you say the state remains the owner of the funds when it lends credit to agricultural production. Mr. Masic talked about how and whether these loans are returning. Not that we have any doubt, we know that no one here ever does a deliberate use control, so at this point, it's not just at this point, it's not standing. You're saying printing paper of value isn't, how do I put it, something that stands today. Last year, the budget, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, in the image of the finance ministry, printed bonds, or records of current liquidity values. Now listen. Every 10-11 a month, businesses hand over the bill and pay taxes. If he's late, 23% of the interest goes. So the state has a planned guaranteed inflow and it's taking out a liquidity loan. I understand that liquidity credit is taken by companies. You have criminal measures, as a state, to collect and secure that liquidity. At the same time, you print these records, and on the other hand, you pay interest, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, each other. It's completely unimaginable. At the same time, Mr Dinkic talks about the surplus in half the year, and it is well known - until you have all the obligations reduced and all the sources shown, the surplus cannot be presented. You simply brought, not you, your predecessors, and we ask you not to do it, and you begin with this budget, you have brought economics to absurd science.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3333	Thank you. You've spent time with the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group. Do any of the other parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3334	Here, as soon as I can. As rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, I'm only going to say one digression. You saw in the government report that three amendments were accepted. As far as the Legislative Committee is concerned, as legally possible, 20 amendments have been assessed. Therefore, I would like to emphasise the independence of the Legislative Committee from the executive authority. As for the esteemed Ms Tabakovic and her amendment to Article 2 to be deleted, I will only refer to the legal standard set out in Article 13, which is why the Legislative Committee considered it legally impossible, because it proposed that this amendment be rejected. Article 13a. The budget system law provides that the budget surplus, i.e. budget deficit... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The amount of the budget deficit and the way it is financed is determined by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I just want to say what Mr. Secretary said. You know, we have one original law, and it's a bill on the budget system, and it's a derivative, and it's a budget law. The Budgetary Law is in line with the Budgetary System Act. I just wanted to say so much about the explanation, that your one amendment was accepted on the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3335	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Cedomir Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3336	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I have signed up for my word in order to in some way warn of an unacceptable relationship with us as MPs. Now it's 18.50 hours, this assembly works past hours. In this hall, mostly, opposition representatives, and from the most numerous government in the environment -- only one minister. It would not be good for us to hold lessons in respect of the Budgetary System Act and to do so by representatives of the Government who themselves do not respect the Budgetary System Act. We wrote the amendments not with intent and with the expectation that they would be accepted, but with the idea, as we said in the debate in principle, to distract the minister, in order to, possibly, correct something. You do not expect the Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party to find nearly 17 billion dinars in the budget to honour a legal obligation stemming from the Health Protection Act. We haven't had a chance to consult with the minister. It's been a precedent since 2001. We got our budget on Friday, around 5:30. We started a debate on Monday. During those two days, we were in no position to do what was our parliamentary obligation. That's why we've been working on that law like this. But if we are talking about the Law on the Budgetary System as something that is the Bible of this debate, then it must be the Holy Scriptures, first, for the Government. Who is responsible for the violation of the Law on the Budgetary System and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and for the illegal and anti-constitutional financing of the country from 31 March to today? We didn't get an answer to that question. If anyone knows that answer, say it here on behalf of the ruling coalition. If this is a decision that resulted in the only solution due to the chaos the country has faced, then I must remind you that this is not an exact explanation and that the state is anti-constitutional and illegally funded because Vojislav Kostunica wanted it. It would be good if, in future, the argument did not raise the question of respect for the law on the budgetary system, because first, the government should start respecting that law, and then we, as MPs, will do so. In the circumstances in which we are located, there should be much more respect for the MPs of the opposition, regardless of which parties they come from, at least in terms of this item of the agenda, because I think we are very correct, that we respect the minister and that we are trying, to the extent possible, to correct the draft budget law, which, as it is, we certainly expected much more. That's not what Serbia needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3337	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) We move on to the next amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr. President, he doesn't seem to know my name, I am Alexander Martinovic, and I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and not an amendment to Article 2. Draft budget law. Before I say a few words about the amendment, I must say that as a man, I understand that orthopedics and medicine have little to do with law and that anyone who is a doctor may not be able to understand and correctly interpret a legal rule in any situation. Mr. President, the Legislative Committee cannot refuse an amendment to the draft budget law. The Legislative Committee cannot be measured on the amendment, it can only give its opinion on whether the amendment is legally possible. What does it mean that the amendment is legally possible? That means it's consistent with the Constitution and the law. The Legislative Committee cannot, under Article 45(1). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to be measured on the nature of the amendments; this can only be the resolution committee, in this case, it is the Financial Committee. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I would like to remind the Members of Parliament that Article 184 is Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. It's a constitutional provision. At the same time, I remind the MPs of the provision of Article 184(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the type and level of original revenues of autonomous provinces are determined by law. Therefore, it is not disputed that the type and the amount of revenue allocated in the AP Vojvodina are determined by law, but this cannot be done by the Budget Law, but by a special law, which is passed with only one objective, which is to determine the height and source of the income of autonomous provinces. So, the Budget Law, by its legal nature, by its very nature, for the purpose of which it is adopted, is not the law that should determine what the original incomes of the Autonomous provinces are, hence, the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina. It should be regulated by law, but not by the Budget Law, but by a special law. Therefore, in my amendment, I proposed that Article 3(1) of the first indent be proposed. The draft budget law deletes this indent 3, in particular in the light of the fact that the draft budget law does not set the ceiling for the amount of these revenues and does not specify the sources of revenue. I totally understand why this is so, because a special law needs to regulate it, not by budget law, so because this provision is not the spirit of the budget law, I suggest that the third-party indent of Article 3. The 2007 draft bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget erases.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3339	Thank you. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has 11 minutes left. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3340	I don't know why fellow MPs from the congregation's majority get angry when they're told that, mostly, the opposition MPs are sitting in the hall. I was recently able to count that only 32 MPs from the congregation are currently monitoring the work on a very important agenda point, I guess, most important, of the budget. It is truly amazing that MPs of the congregation are not interested in that part of the debate. I also have something I couldn't explain to myself when the president took a break because we insisted that we get the government's opinion. We received, after a break that lasted much more than 15 minutes as we were told, and in writing the government's opinion, and we received an oral explanation that the government had brought its opinion to the phone session. I know it's possible, but I'm interested in something else. If the minister at the time of that break was sitting in a congregation restaurant, and his associate, I don't know if you're the Secretary of State or Assistant here, then I really don't know who helped the government bring his opinion on whether or not he accepts or accepts what amendments he accepts or doesn't accept. It is obvious that unprofessional people did so, that it was only done to get off the agenda, so that Serbian Radical Party MPs would stop talking about breaking the Rules of Procedure and breaking the Rules of Procedure. That's why we have, I must say, the government's nebulous explanations, which is why some amendments aren't being accepted. Before I say anything about my colleague Alexander Martinovic's amendment, I wanted to comment very briefly on Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's amendment to Article 1, but there was no time left, as counterpart Zoran Krasic spoke. I would like to say that, regardless of this technical lack in Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's amendment, the government, however, should, and also the parliamentary majority, to deal seriously with this amendment, to consider it, because I am convinced that what Mr. Jovanovic proposed, absolutely, based on relevant data, given that the director of the Republic Health Insurance Office at DOS was his father-in-law, Mr. Savic. These are certainly relevant data and certainly, Mr Jovanovic, that this amendment should be seriously considered. As regards the amendment to Article 3(1), paragraph 3 is proposed to be deleted. He told counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic that Article 3 refers to funds to cover the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2007, and in this point 3, among other things, it is said - from other revenues, therefore, that three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget is used to finance capital expenditures, and that, among other things, from other revenues achieved in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This law could not regulate it, and counterpart Martinovic explained it nicely. I will draw your attention to the reasoning of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the government has not accepted the amendment of Aleksandr Martinovic. The government -- the amendment is rejected for the reason that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that in order to implement the constitutional provision it is necessary to show the revenues that provide the above-mentioned budget of the AP Vojvodina. In addition, the said provision of Article 3(1) of the third indent cannot be considered to determine other revenues, nor to implement their membership as AP Vojvodina, but only as indicated, by showing all revenue in order to implement the constitutional provision. Really, I haven't read anything more ridiculous. I don't know if whoever signed this signed this, this opinion was signed by Bozidar Djelic, who understood this, and it's not safe, I don't believe. The minister is not here to try, perhaps, to explain, perhaps along the way he told the government how he should explain his opinion. We did not amend what was a constitutional obligation and what the Constitution regulated. On the contrary, we are trying to change the law back into constitutional frameworks. It's you, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia has come out of constitutional frameworks, as the National Assembly cannot determine with its budget the revenue generated by the AP Vojvodina from its sources, and especially as it stands in the light of the draft budget itself, where the upper limit of the amount is not set and there are no precise sources of income. Therefore, if the minister were here, we could engage in an argument, but he's gone. I draw attention to the MPs of the parliamentary majority, you 32, now 30, two have come out, to consider and to consider the amendments submitted by the opposition MPs. Believe me, we are well-intentioned, not for your sake, but for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because we want Serbia's citizens to finally get the budget, to stop this funding farce through the regulations. Of course, we'll talk about it, too, through the amendments, when it's appropriate. We intend to put this draft budget in the legal and constitutional framework for amendments, as far as possible. That is why I suggest that you adopt the amendment proposed by counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic. Because it's really inappropriate for the government to have such an unserious relationship. I expected this government, although it is a new old government, to have a slightly more reasonable explanation, that it will not happen, as in the time when the government was not formed, so once again after 31 March a new regulation on temporary financing was passed, then Minister Parivodić said that it was not in accordance with the law, but the government is working in extreme need, we have to do so, and then Justice Minister Stojkovic says that he has just thought and concluded that the government could do so because it was working under the old law, so the law that was no longer in force. Now, gentlemen of this new old government, DOS government, look at it at least enough to make sure that what you're proposing is in accordance with the law. And, I am telling the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since we have received an opinion on amendments to this law, that the future is not toying with the intelligence of nor with the MPs, nor with the citizens of Serbia. We do this job, unlike the government, very seriously and we will comment on any government response that is unbulfied, inadequate, unserious, as this one is on Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3341	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Buha. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3342	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will make a gentle comment on what the minister has told us. He said here that the budget was made in accordance with the Budget System Act. I'll call Article 2. The Budgetary System Act which clearly shows that the budget is not made in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, and I will later read one provision of the Constitution, which will show that this Budget Law is not made in accordance with the Constitution. In Article 2. The law on the budgetary system stands - the Budget Law is a law whereby the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia approves for each year expenditures and other expenditures, incomes and other incomes, borrowing and other financial transactions of the Republic, and the resources for the implementation of the National Investment Plan are expressed in one or more years. It is evident from the draft budget that not all revenues and expenditures are not shown, and if we look back at the National Investment Plan, we will see that we have no expenditure on that basis at all. I must appeal to the provision of the Constitution that was brought in last year, which obliges both the ministries and all state institutions and bodies to apply the provisions of the Constitution. The constitutional provision of Article 92 says that the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government have budgets in which all revenues and expenditures financed by their powers must be shown. So the constitutional provision says all revenues and expenditures must be entered into the budget. There's no alternative here - I can, but I have to. From previous presentations, we have seen that not all revenues are entered into the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3343	Mr. Buha, time's up for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3344	I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3345	Thank you. Cedomir Jovanovic, the LDP MP group has 15 minutes and then Slobodan Gavrilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3346	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would use the right to reply, not because of the controversy with Mrs. Radet, but simply because of another argument which makes the amendment we have made more significant and serious. The 2007 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute mentions the amount of 17 billion dinars needed. That's why we have a problem. The Health Insurance Fund is an inescapable part of a system the government must take care of. The financial plan on transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget implies, through a very clear account, of 16.685,356.385 dinars. What does the fund say in that plan? In Article 22(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Health Insurance Act, which has been applied since 1 January 2007, and I am reading this to you because I think the ministers who consulted at the government's telephone session have not taken sufficient account, and therefore their position on our amendments cannot be relevant, therefore, in this plan, the Health Insurance Fund is said to be based on Article 22(1). The law requires insurance undertakings to be regarded as persons belonging to a population group exposed to an increased risk of disease, persons whose health care is required in relation to prevention, prevention, early detection and treatment of diseases of greater social importance, as well as persons who are in the category of socially endangered population, if they do not meet the conditions for obtaining insurance or if health insurance rights and obligations do not qualify as members of the insurance family. At the same time, paragraph 4 of the same Article stipulates that, within the meaning of the law, a person to whom the competent authority has established the status of a refugee, or exiled person from the former Republic of the SFRY, who is resident on the territory of the Republic, is also considered to be a person. In Serbia, such a person is 921,683. The calculation of the health insurance contribution to be planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget is 16 billion 685 million dinars. Minister Cvetkovic, I am not sure that the ministers in the telephone talks were aware of what a huge mistake they make when they reject the LDP amendment. Three billion are absolutely unacceptable and that's not our personal assessment. The financial minimum of the Health Insurance Fund is 16 billion 685 million. This state must respect it or must seek an alternative in Parliament, at meetings of the government, in agreement with society. We are absolutely ready for anything, but not simply rejecting our amendment because it is not in accordance with the budget system law, which the government itself does not respect. If the Fund is making a financial plan for 2007, then it can do, for example, Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic, who will spend 11 billion, not citing how it will do so, without justifying its costs. It is absolutely unacceptable, especially the fact that the government has consulted on our amendments to the telephone conversation. She rejected the amendments and thus defeated herself in her own politics. The prime minister here at the exposé said it would be a socially responsible government, that he would pay special attention to the most vulnerable layers of the population, that it would be a government that would have an understanding of the heritage of the 1990s, for exiles, for refugees. This budget is a confirmation of the hypocrisy of the policy on which the government was made. This budget is evidence of a lack of respect for the laws that the government allegedly insists on. The budget is, among other things, pushing Serbia into chaos, in which it will be in the second half of the year, because it is unable to comply with the laws it insists on. If the government does not respect the Health Insurance Act, why should a doctor or a patient respect it? Who in this country makes decisions when the laws are respected and they are not respected? We insist on this issue, first of all, as a matter through which transitions in Serbia are crucial. This country can't change without anyone paying the price. Let's define that price and say the role of each of us in this business, including the people to whom we offer great rights on paper, and in life we leave them on the margins of our daily lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3347	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? National MP Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. It is no doubt that these days we are discussing a document that, after the Constitution, is the most significant document in this country. I want to point out what is attributed, in part, to the ruling majority, either as government, or as MPs, or to the seriousness of accessing this subject. The most obvious example will be this -- this is a 500 billion dinar bill. That's one bill. For her, at a time when she was current, one match could be bought, and today's budget will allow the state and all its institutions to function with almost the same bill. So much for being serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3349	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - misreading the Members of Parliament. The story goes back to Ms. Verice Radete's story on the inconclusiveness of the government's response to the amendments submitted. I have submitted an amendment to Section 5 of Section 39 of function 490. The amendment speaks of the Agency for the Development of Infrastructure and Local Self-Government. In the explanation of the government we received, i.e. answers why my amendment has not been accepted, it is said: "The law to which the MP of the amendment has submitted, to the division of Act 39, 410.", then, it states quite another function. It is an unserious approach to consider this amendment, because the amendment the government has responded to is about the Energy Efficiency Agency. So it has nothing to do with each other. That's ridiculous. So I ask you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, to take a break again and give the government a second, this time seriously, to consider this amendment of mine, perhaps, by serious analysis, will accept it, which would mean a lot to me, and of course to the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3351	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3352	Mr Dulic, these problems with amendments and the work of the Legislative Committee have arisen because the new composition of the Legislative Committee is; this about rejection and rejection has long been resolved. That's not why I'm answering, because I'm attributing it to being ignorant. It's possible to make such a mistake at first. Before I go along with this amendment to Article 4, Gavrilovic flees, and he showed the bill and did not receive a warning, and Rajko Djuric showed the bill and received a warning. So that's the selectivity. Now a little more serious. You in the DS really need to sit down and clear some things up. The bill was printed at a time when the Democratic Party was at federal level in power. Let me remind you, Perisic was the minister of information. It was the government of Milan Panic, so later Kontic, etc. He was Momcilo Grubač, Tibor Varadi, and there were quite a few DS personnel and, of course, the father of democracy at the head of the Republic, in the image and work of Dobrica Cosic. So when you complain about these bills, they're your bills, Mr. Gavrilovich. Don't call the SRS. That's when you airplanes and helicopters came here to remove the immunity of Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj, etc. This, just to concentrate on time and space, because I see that disorientation makes you make these kind of cardinal mistakes. I asked for an amendment to delete article 4. Why? I asked for it to provoke the government and to come out with the right information. But those bastards didn't come out with the right data, either. Bigger than me, I agree. That's where I take my hat off. Bigger bastards than me, they didn't come out with the right data. But they made only one mistake, in response they quoted two members of the Budgetary System Act, and the first member to quote was wrong. He refers entirely to other matter, but that doesn't surprise me. Why? Because I know how to deal with them. Now, citizens of Serbia, please pay attention to what is regulated by Article 4. Draft budget law. It is said this way: "In 2007, the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to the amount", these are large numbers, but you know it will be around 490m euros. This means, according to this, that this party will raise its hands senselessly by the end of the year and vote in favour of the laws on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, that it will vote in favour of the laws confirming the agreement, that it will vote in favour of laws granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the amount of 491m euros. There are certain items here, I do not want to enter their justification, but I remind you that there is an item in the table, under the IV-side governments. So we will give guarantees totalling 79m euros to the Government of France -- 40m euros, then to the Government of Spain -- 37m euros, the Government of the Republic of Austria, very modestly, two million 350,000 euros. So, the Republic of Serbia will issue a guarantee, which means that if some indirect user or a third party who is in debt does not meet its obligations, then the Republic of Serbia needs to fulfil its obligation, only that we still don't have very important information about whether there is a period of rest, when there are commitments, what interest. This will be made known later, but the main argument to the government when pressured to make the following guarantee laws compulsory, will be to call for Article 4. The 2007 Budget Law. So now you've voted for something you don't know, you can't even guess what it's about. So the French government is very poor, the Republic of Serbia will have to give them guarantees. As part of the article, in this first position under b), it is said that the Republic of Serbia will approve project loans in the total amount, so now we have two amounts, one is $170m, and the other is 242.5m euros. There's already a republic that's bound to initially settle the debt on that loan, but you're going to have to vote, and here's exactly what it is. So, we're going to have to go into an arrangement with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Bank, the German Development Bank, the Government of Spain. So with those previous governments, we're guarantors, and here we're direct debtors. Furthermore, there is an obligation to show in the general budget the state of the debt of the Republic of Serbia and, behold, this chapter is now going to show the state of the debt. Serbia is in debt, so only the commitment of the state, 9352,000,000 etc. etc. The euro. And now the balance of debt in the dinars is given, below two is given the foreign currency debt, and that is $8.7 billion. Now let's see how money is stolen. Remember, I need to relax you with a nice introduction. In 2001 when Mladjan Dinkic, i.e. in 2000, when he put a black sock on his head, carried out the raid, won the National Bank, and Boris Tadic and the family of Jeremic - NIS, you know that, some others freed Kertes from Carina, it seems to me that Zabunović, as it was, did not know me, and that I do not have any further, you will know much better than I do, from some books now coming out, so everything opens up who was breaking in, how he worked. Just to remind the Guardian of this information that hasn't been discussed. Let me tell you right now, it won't go out of date, it can't go out of date, it has to be discussed until the end. You smile, just know who smiles last, the cutest smile. Since we no longer have domestic banks, they are destroyed, neither did Mladja tell us where the money is from Cyprus, nor did Velja tell us where the money is from Cyprus, nor did Batic tell us where the money is from Cyprus, nor did he tell us the one from Homeland Security, as it was - Bogovac, and that Djordjevic, no one tells us where the money is from Cyprus. Ask him, if you know anyone knows, ask him, I've authorized you, call me. The destroyed banks, destroyed everything, but this country has meanwhile committed itself on this basis and, here, to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- you all have to pay the loan created by democracy, these here, these on the left of me. And this is one loan we're paying off, it's a credit for the development of the private and banking sector. The debt situation for the loan at the end of last year was 6m and some thousands of euros. Furthermore, another very interesting loan, but it is much larger, about 600m euros, it is a technical assistance project in privatising the restructuring of banks and businesses. You see, they're in charge of taking money from abroad, destroying banks, destroying the economy, selling 88 companies. So, it wasn't the banbads, as someone said, they earned, as they took five million dollars for Milosevic when they delivered it. You signed on behalf of the government, even though you were an MP, you should be lustrated; you signed unauthorizedly, you cheated on both the government and the state, you cheated on everyone. Just smile, DB closes the circle. That's all the naked facts. So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, now you realize what a hoax that was, the DS -- a democratic bloc. You see, what's all about NGOs has to enter the structure of government. Tell yourself how planned it was to get new ones into the state administration, and seven years ago they criticised that it was pre-named, that it should be fired. Fired 80%, received 300%. It is democracy and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paying for it. You see, you're repaying the loan because the assets of that loan have executed the bank's kidnapping, the destruction of the banking system. As an example, I cited these two loans, so I wouldn't read these other ones to you. All the loans that went through Labus, and for the first three years everyone went through Labus, had a 35 percent clause, consulting services that stayed abroad. Look, not that it's a robbery, but to arrest them in 10 years to start a trial, you didn't do anything wrong. That's why they care about being in power, even with 3.2%, like Junior Dinkic. If this censorship hadn't passed now, he'd already be in jail with the Legion. I'd make sure he was even in the same room, so let him make a deal there. And with Chad, I would do the same thing with the Legion to be in the room, so let them agree on what's controversial in court. You're smiling. Just smile, just so you know it's possible that you might happen to be in CZ next door with them. Then think about how it's gonna be and who's gonna be the cap. That's not all. [[Applause]] The Republic of Serbia has indirect obligations and our obligations, it is now a state of debt. There's no handle on what's going to be or what's going to be. But it was given a cross-section of 31.12.2006. We owe about 770m euros here. Now there can be some excuses -- a water line project and this and that for local self-government. But there's only robbery reduced, or reduced to lower levels of power. At a lower level of government, it's the same as when you hear in politics that you need to put an end to the robbery, so it's said -- everything shouldn't be in Belgrade, it should be in Novi Sad. When Canak says so, he thinks - what to steal these in Belgrade when we can in Novi Sad. He doesn't see a citizen, he doesn't see his rights or his obligations. No, it's near the funds, where it can all end that way. Let me remind you that this is the one you filed a criminal charges against. I know who filed criminal charges and who made the deal. Just smile. Djindjic, Ceda, Zivkovic, Djelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3353	You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3354	Mr. Dulic, don't worry, this is very interesting... Dinkic, Labus, was initially Vuk Obradovic, so he left, but he remained that Lalovic. But none of that criminal record of yours has been for seven years. No one's gonna take it into their hands to work. Why did you file these criminal charges? If it wasn't that, it was a wolf cry, and the fox took it away, huh? Oh, yes, you do. One more item to read to you. So the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia is shown. What the dynamics of repaying that debt are not shown. That should be shown, not in the Memorandum, and others, but in the budget, to be transparent. You didn't release the data you needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3355	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3356	You've made a mistake in answering that he needs to show up and what he's going to come back to. Article 4 does not regulate what is returned, but only gives a cross-section and what is planned in terms of borrowing. Take care, they planned around 900m euros this year, which directly, based on a guarantee, to be in charge of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have room for such uncontrollable borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3357	Thank you. Here you go. He has the word Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3358	I'd only give one brief piece of information, with the desire to channel the discussion towards something that has a slightly more professional level. The total debt consists of direct liabilities and indirect liabilities. What's the difference? The difference is that direct obligations represent the part of the debt where the state is a direct debtor, means debtor. Indirect obligations are obligations where the state has given guarantees to public enterprises. She's basically not in debt, but indirectly she is, unless these companies pay that debt. So this is not about direct borrowings -- Belgrade, and indirect borrowings -- Novi Sad and others. The fact that it is mentioned has nothing to do with it, but it is a matter of whether the state is a direct or indirect debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3359	The Republic has a National MP named Nadica Momirov, or is it time for a parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3360	According to the Rules of Procedure, regarding Article 104. Mr. Krasic, I know that you can talk for hours at this pay phone and use your 15 minutes, talk all sorts of things, to stall time and slow down the work of the Assembly. It costs all the citizens, because every working day in the congregation costs a lot. However, I ask you to stick to basic cultures and order in this presentation. Please, no matter what you're giving false information, you're presenting a bunch of information that has nothing to do with it, that you don't insult all the MPs. This is the House of the Assembly. Please don't insult the citizens, don't insult the institutions, because if what you say about this pay phone were true, the authorities would have reacted a long time ago. You cannot make accusations here that some criminals, mobsters and others, that you are comparing them with the Legion, and especially Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, because by your actions, when the Serbian Radical Party was in power, you have done so many bad things to this country. You led to the fact that the money didn't exist, we just had a chance to see what the bills looked like. We have a chance to remember that the salaries were 5 marks at the time, that people had nothing to eat, that they were standing in ranks, that they were waiting for bread and milk. You did it all, and now you're talking about something here, like everyone else is guilty, not you. That's very well known. The citizens know very well. You can't accuse those who've done their work in the last seven years of being in this country of being so much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3361	Thank you very much. He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Are you answering for a replica, or is that the time of the Parliament Club? It's an MP's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3362	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to return this debate to this amendment. Because no matter how he's presented, I think he should be spoken of. I disagree that by deleting Article 4. The Assembly corrected those failures pointed to by the promoter. I think that would make us all damaged. But it would be good to, perhaps, establish an additional control mechanism for the way such large funds and others will be spent. In Article 4, among other things, funds are provided for the Public Enterprise of Serbia, the Railways of Serbia, Corridor 10, the rehabilitation of roads, bridges, the rehabilitation of the Gezal Bridge, the restoration of the Railways, the regional development of Bora, the increase of energy efficiency in Serbia, clinical centres, obligations on the basis of paid pensions to farmers, and obligations will be settled, funds on the basis of outstanding pensions of all employees, old foreign exchange savings and a loan for economic rebirth. This amendment is not good and we will not support it. As for the way in which an SRS representative asked for support for such a thing, he only made it easier for us to oppose the idea, although I think it would be useful to further remind ourselves of the way these funds will be spent, given that we do not believe that people in Serbia's Railways, in Serbia's Ministry, who is responsible for the organisation of work in these companies, for the control of the work of these companies, will spend money in a regulated manner. It is, among other things, the price of the party state, which was affirmed in Serbia by Vojislav Kostunica as prime minister since 2004. That's what's wrong, Mr. Cvetkovic, and that's why I hope we'll find a common language about the way that such large funds will be controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3363	Thank you very much. He has a replica of MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3364	Of course, I went out for Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Cvetkovic, you're saying there's nothing I've said, look at page 9 of your draft budget bill. You see, it says - Novi Sad, water supply, so Kragujevac, Subotica - wastewater net, you're a little confused. I was talking about it. So, I was talking about the fact that the Republic issued guarantees on that basis, and I made a difference because the Republic took direct commitments, and you didn't follow. That's one thing. The other thing, which is very important because of those who appear, is recognized. Well, Mrs. Momirov, you'd have to know at least chronology, because the big inflation was in 1993. That year, everyone was stalking the SRS, and you got a little confused. As for Mladjan Dinkic, the book was published that he was breaking into banks, ma'am, the book was published. Well, you just reminded me to look, through the president of the National Assembly, a notice from Minister Jocic about how long it's been with that case, because there's been a criminal report, there are witness statements. I know whatever I say, you'll say I'm lying and it's your right to think so. I have no intention of affecting your right at all, but I just want to draw attention to the fact that there are papers, criminal statements, witness statements and eyewitnesses. Please, it's not, I don't suppose, that you're not looking at B92, because there was almost one frame where the cigarette-smuggling guy says - Mr. Curtis, you bought freedom with this statement; that was October 5th. Let me just remind you what Captain Dragan said and what happened on October 5th; we know who was entering NIS and who immediately became director of NIS. So, the father of this foreign minister of yours. You say that's not true, and he, a man, boasted in the papers. Do some press clipping, gather what's been published and who's been doing what, because I have it, and I have to remember it all. There will come a time when we'll make it all right. By what principle? Legalism, as a matter of fact. How? The law in your hands. It's inevitable, because otherwise you can't get out of this situation. Mr. Jovanovic, are you sure this money will be spent just as it's written here? You're not. End of story.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3365	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sasa Valjarevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government does not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to refer to the presentation of a colleague from G17 plus, a colleague is here. First, the SRS at a time when it was hyperinflation in Serbia was not in power but was in opposition. Secondly, at a time when the privatisation minister was Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, "Bambi" was privatised, and this is now the most successful firm in Serbia, and it was done under the law, according to your law. When you came, after October 5th, to power, you privatised 2,000 companies in Burazer's privatisation, robbery, and of these companies no longer works, millions of Serbian citizens have no business, so the arguments you made here at the pay phone don't stand. Let's get back to the budget. I am so glad that the government's response came, that I could see why the amendments were rejected, given that Mr. Minister found that they were accepted and rejected. Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 where the amount of 646 billion is replaced by 599 billion. Analyzing this draft budget of yours, I have stated that this budget is explosive and inflatable, as your coalition partner, by the way, the governor of the National Bank, who didn't pass on that Finance Committee, whose member I am, too, is a member, and it's a good thing he didn't pass, because we don't think he deserves to be in that position. This budget isn't even developmental, it's a compromise budget with the ruling coalition, because you've had to satisfy all these vast ministries, all the powerful agencies that are open here, that is, to accommodate a huge machine here. I see MPs change every day, they're new faces, every day there's some new jobs, some functions, and they can't get to change MPs, because they don't seem to have them anymore, so now they're looking for them. Now, the Finance Committee can't replace a member and you don't have a majority, because the opposition has a majority, so you haven't even passed the governor. They probably can't agree on who the ministry will belong to, to which any agency, I mean those parallel institutions. I see in this explanation why my amendment, or amendment of the SRS, was not accepted. I see that they did not refer to this amendment to Article 5 referring to the amendment to Article 1, which Mr Arsic, along with Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, fully formed and did by law and did not violate Article 10 here. Budgetary system law. I see that the amendments submitted by the SRS don't read at all, or analyze them at all, to see if they have a legal foothold and whether they can be accepted, but simply, as soon as you can see that the MPs of the SRS have suggested it, you reject it. The amendment only provides an explanation that it is necessary to start an equal budget financing, because I think Serbia is over-indebted, that it should no longer take loans, but rather project the real-income budget planned for this financial year. Although the budget year has long begun, we know that, because of all the possible problems you've had in forming the government, we're making a budget at the end of June, in early July. I think that's why the SRS MPs won't vote for this budget, because we don't think it's well done. We gave you a model of what the budget of the Republic of Serbia should look like, where the interests of Serbian citizens would be reflected. Since you didn't accept it, the MPs of the SRS will not vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3367	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Jorgenka Tabakovic and you, ma'am, have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3368	Dear colleagues, in view of the amendments submitted by Sasa Valjarevic, which concerns our request for real budget financing, without deficits and repayment of debts for which we have no information when and why they are taken, I am using the opportunity to supplement or ask for the two loans mentioned by Mr Zoran Krasic as the obligation of the Serbian state to return -- credit for the development of the private and banking sector and credit for adapting the private financial sector. The 2007 budget is an obligation to repay the loan. So when they take and who uses them, we don't know. Believe me, it's quite an accident, I didn't know Krasic was going to mention this topic, but "The Official Journal of the SRJ - International Contracts' 2001 I've been carrying with me since the moment it was published. Some will file criminal charges, they will sit in some drawers, and this "Official Journal - International Contracts" which routed the collapse of the Serbian economy will remain the majority indictment of DOS authorities. It published two international contracts, which are called - donations from the Trustee's Fund for the Development of the Financial Sector and the development of the private sector. Many of you may remember, were adopted in the Federal Assembly, the material was divided during the day and voted on within a few hours. Many have not even been able to see material content. What Mr Krasic calls credit and budget today well includes, in fact, donations worth six million dollars. I repeat, a six-million-dollar donation for the development of the banking sector has been projected, according to the "Official List - International Contracts" No. 8, since 28 September 2001, to return four million and 730 million dollars to sales agents for consulting services, and to restructure the banking sector through a cutting method, from case to case. It's a project that stands in one sentence -- a method from case to case, and in 2002, on January 1, four large banks were shut down by mob principle -- kill the trustee and no longer have debt. The six million dollar donation was returned to the sender, sales agents in the donor banks, and for that small money that was left, you destroyed the banking sector. Today in this budget, there is a commitment to repaying the loan. This is a donation, a gift, which is not a donation and a gift, because free cheese exists only in a mouse hunter, you all know that. The donation was supposed to be a reward for certain behavior, and the result is visible to everyone. The privatisation of the private sector is also drawn here. Organisations to be formed, from the Privatisation Agency, to the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency have been drawn up. In 2001, the privatisation wasn't even done until they told you how it was done here, and they said it was done by sales agents, selected by a donor bank or a donor administrator, and you can't even think about it, or decide to assign to someone what is over $50,000, or to buy goods, or for services from this project, without asking questions. To this day, privatisation counselors are decided by financial advisors by those who started doing this in 2001. In this Official List, a decision, which today is in effect, is also drawn, that 5% of the fees are paid to those who implement the privatisation process before the budget even sees the revenues from privatisation. Before paying the price for the sale of a factory, 5% is allocated to a privatisation consultant, or one who has secured success in privatisation, not from a loan, not from a donation, but from the capital of the company sold, i.e. from the price achieved. That's what it says in this Official List, page 27, and it was later translated into Mr. Bubal's rule book, by Article 41. The Privatisation Act, and I'll talk about it for the 23rd budget. Our doom began by accepting such conditions. These aren't friendly aids, this is a bait that reportedly read -- six million per donation project, the rest are crumbs. What kind of bait or gift was it if we had a loan today? I'm right to ask, what kind of donation is the loan, because it doesn't say here when this loan for the same purpose is won, under what conditions and with what time of return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3369	Mr. Buha, please, there are two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3370	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will return to the constitutional decree, given that I am interrupted here for the sake of time and that the minister is present here. I want to point out a constitutional obligation that must be applied both by the ministries and by all state authorities. Mr. Minister, the constitutional obligation clearly states that all revenue and all expenditure must be entered into the budget. You didn't show it in this budget. First of all, you had to start with the business situation in 2006 and show in your balance sheet whether the deficit, whether or not the surplus. From what we've seen, we see that you have what was called socialism -- positive zeros, a category that is impossible in both accounting and accounting, and in financial terms -- that you have zero at the end of the business year, no surplus income, no expenditure. So that's the basis. The first member of the budget should read - the revenues in business 2006 were you, the expenditures you, and we have some results. The result is the starting point for 2007. Do you know that? You know. It's best to start by hiding certain things, and you've covered up a lot of things in this budget. As for the financial indicators you have shown here, they do not comply with the Budgetary System Act, they do not comply with the provisions of the Accounting and Audit Act. Everything you had in an income and cost-effective sense, you had to make a statement. I'm asking you, how did we end up in business 2006? That's what I'm saying from the point of view of Article 2. The budget law, which says that, according to revenues and expenditures for this year, we have a deficit, but you cover it with privatisation incomes, loans and transferred funds from the previous year. What means? That is the provision of a member of the first budget. You had to say the incomes that remained in business 2006 and start to position both income and expenditure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3371	Excuse me, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3373	Thank you. Do any other MPs want a word? (No) Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted 2 amendments to Article 5. The legislative committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3374	The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 5, Section 2, concerning the functions of the president of the Republic of Serbia, and concerns the costs of his travels planned for 2007. The government planned that in these columns 6 and 8, when it was added up, 42.5 million dinars came out. Natasa Jovanovic proposes that it be reduced, that it be only 20 million dinars, and I, of course, must explain it and add several more very important arguments to be taken into account by MPs who support the government, as during 2007, the role of the president of the Republic should cost 170m dinars. You need to know that somewhere around 750 thousand dinars will be provided, it says here -- from donations from foreign countries. So, 250,000 people in the foreign country give Division 2, the president of the Republic, and there are donations from an international organisation, that's 500 thousand dinars. When something called sovereign, in the jargon, is financed from abroad, then something needs to be done for these people abroad. We don't have anything written here that needs to be done. We don't have any information on whether these are computers. We have no record of whether this is the People's Office. There's some information out there that increases the number of employees. I would draw your attention to the fact that when you reject this amendment, because you do not want to vote for this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party, you must not do this, make sure that there is a position -- economic classification 423, that is services per contract, and there will be 16.2 million dinars to be spent. So the President of the Republic needs some services and the state pays his needs for those services. This is very interesting if it is given that there is a special division – the airline, etc., where the costs are incomparably higher, where the airline is probably driven by the president; it does not particularly drive by some means; therefore there is this airline, for these civil servants, delegations when they go abroad. We think it's inappropriate for so much money to be singled out at this point, and it's not even justified. Maybe it's not celery either. We've got a president of the state and a prime minister running a dead race who's gonna be Tito, Comrade Tito. But something's not going well with them. When they go abroad to represent the state, then we have gaffs, incidents. Here, now something Tadic hasn't been making, these two months, incidents, and it's not something that he's traveled to, but in these three years, wherever he's gone, some incident has turned out, or it's been a protocol incident, or something in his statement that can be reduced to an incident, with very serious consequences for national interests. It needs to be reduced. I have to connect this, because, practically, they all have something to do with this text section of Article 5. You see, here you said that budget funds amount to 646 billion and a lot more dinars, but then you say that there, in column 7, another item is inserted - 71.7 billion dinars. When it's added up, it comes out 717 million. It's the real consumption of state authorities and all that you've put aside. You don't need to share it. You presented to the public that the 580 budget and some million. I remind you of this only because of 2001, when you swore here that everything should be transparent, that all revenue and expenditure should be shown in the budget, that it was known, that the public knew. Officially, you did show it, but you just forgot to add it up, and you didn't add it up because then it looks like a much larger number. There's a large number then, and then participation in the gross social product isn't as much as you imagined to show the public, but far greater. This is about pure man-eating marriquettes. These numbers are not a mathematical problem. They have this mathematical aspect of addition, seduction and division. But behind these figures is a service, work, action, politics. Here, in large numbers, it shows something like a big policy, and it's not there. There's no big policy. There's no significant policy here. Here, even, there is no policy that would cover our regulations. Many items, text and numerically, show something here, and behind it is something else entirely. As dangerous as that is, I'll show you on one case. A year and a half ago, I was looking for big money taken by some law professors, because they offered their services, or they were part of a team that worked on a proposal, a bill or some law. I happened to find out that some professors and some other centers took a lot of money. I asked a question from this pay phone and asked for an answer. Here, a year and a half past the answer I didn't get. So when you ask a question from this pay phone, it's not like you're talking to the trustee because someone didn't answer. This should have a much higher weight, but the state isn't responding, it can't release the data, how much he took Hiber, etc. Here, I tell you in advance, and, Mr. Dulic, write it down, not as a request to answer my question, but to ask for a notice and an explanation, to tell Minister Cvetkovic within 30 days to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of all those economic classifications that are called contracted services, earlier it was something different -- what is a specific ministry, in a specific month, on that basis, of what, how much it cost, when it was paid and to whom it was paid. That's that 226 again. It is in the function of what one of my predecessors said – well, I do not support Krasic's amendment, not good, but I doubt what spending will be. Well, I'm putting up with the amendments because I know what the cost will be. So, when it's been a month, all the MPs get a notice, an economic position -- contracted services, divided that, approved so much, completed contracts for that amount, with these and those persons, the project that, the proposal, that studio, I accept all that, that we know exactly who took who, who hired whom. This is where the centres for liberal-democratic studies appear, so that I don't order, rightly, the society deploys and pulls. These are very important political centers. I have to distract you. These are centres to support the democratic bloc, as the democratic bloc thus buys their trust. What are you, Batric, going to criticise, or I don't know what it's like to be the one, Mijatovic, etc. You don't have what you're criticizing. You can't criticise, you're contractually tied, we gave you money for this project, and when B 92 comes, you're going to say -- great, good, it's on the trail to the European Union, that's what they're asking us to do. So everyone has to blabber to make an impression with an ordinary citizen, here, you see, they're all European-defined. It's the same for you in these positions with the President of the Republic. We have an expensive president of the Republic, it costs a lot and a weak window, to be simple. You don't believe she's a weak vida? Well, here, for three months, he agreed both as president of the Republic and as president of the party. Who was he making a deal with? With your blood enemy. When did he make the deal? When Solana found the glue, he was blind. What's good about that? Well, everyone increased the number of ministry employees, that is, making plans to increase the number of employees. What happened to the ones from the previous government? Everyone's been thrown out, and the assistants, and the others. Now they're the technical government, they can't choose the assistant ministers. It was up to a few days ago, and now, apparently, I can, so an emergency law has to be passed that extends the deadline for the competition, and now it's not so urgent anymore, so it's agreed. The law serves nothing to the government of the democratic bloc. They, in turn, accepted it as at the time of King Milan, the laws needed for the opposition; that is our problem, and that is all reflected in the budget. All of this is seen behind each of these digits, as mentioned here, whether it's a figure defining some economic classification, whether it's a figure that shows how much the original revenue of the budget, how many donations, and so on, and finally, the total amount. I'm not surprised we haven't had a final account in six years. Why? The final bill would be about as snow, when the snow fell, then the tracks were visible, and they cared if the tracks were not seen. You see the report from the National Assembly. There's a camera seat in the hallway. Literally speaking, the two or three tycoons that create our public opinion tell the editors-in-chief what the main topic is for tomorrow's number, they pick up the presidents of the parliamentary groups and some MPs, bring them in there to make a statement. About what? Something you don't even talk about in the National Assembly. Little tomorrow, you will find texts in the paper about what is happening in the National Assembly, as Jorvanka Tabakovic forced Minister Tsvetkovic to remain silent about the release of papers proving that he is returning to the current budget law, allegedly creating some obligation for a donation. No one's gonna answer that. It's got to be hidden. We'll talk about sports when we get to Gilas, he sells every second possible. If you want a second on TV, you have to go to Gilas. Now, do you at Gilas Minister's, do you at Gilas Director's office, do you at Gilas's chairman of the Democratic Party's Committee, do you choose from Gilas's partner, Olje Beckovic? Citizens of Serbia, this democracy is expensive for you. Not only because of what is taken out of your pocket, but also because you create obligations not only for you, but also for your children. And this is about to happen, in the European Union, to enter; it may happen in 2023, perhaps never. But they have a good story, seven years of talking about it, the European Union is just waiting for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3375	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, division 2, 3, 5, 11, 12, 15, 21 and 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The legislative committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the amendment. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment has three types of objections, or objections, or a proposal. One species refers to the proposed expenditure cuts per item. The report shall state the reasons for the refusal of that type of amendment, on page 8, 1 of the statement. Others refer to the increase in expenditure for the work of the Anti-Corruption Council, to the financing of municipal courts, to the Youth Fund, to subsidies in agriculture and to buildings and construction facilities within the department of the Ministry of Health. Mr. Minister, I'd like an explanation. In Article 2, on page 8, it is merely stated what I propose and there is no explanation of the government's position and whether that part of the amendment has been rejected. The third category of the proposal concerns the erasure of all funds identified for the government's air service and for the National Council's Office for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law, etc. I want to go back to the first part of the proposal under this amendment, and it's about reducing the expenditure on individual users, because I think that this is where the taxpayers' money is being spent as Alajbe's straw. What does the proposed cost reduction apply to? First, at the expense of the President of the Republic's cabinet. Since that's already being said, to be rational, I wouldn't repeat it. The second proposal concerns reducing the costs of the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, let me remind you that the costs of these two cabinets are over one million euros, over 80 million dinars. For one poor Serbia, that's too much. Look at the travel expenses items, there's something wrong. The travel costs of the Deputy Prime Minister are almost 100,000 euros and the Prime Minister - 2,500 euros. I don't know if the vice president is some Quick Gonzales or Gulliver, and the president is a snail or a turtle, or a Sphinx that doesn't move anywhere. Of course, the problem is spending these money. How many average personal incomes, how many pensions, salaries, child benefits, new jobs? An even more frantic spending of funds is foreseen when it comes to the government's General Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address, first of all, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, whose ministers have elected Dejan Mihajlov again as Secretary-General of the Government. If you do not remember, it is the same man who called Zoran Zivkovic and Boris Tadic to say who killed Zoran Djindjic, if they do not, he will say. Since you have a majority in the government, the votes of your ministers have been elected Secretary General, that same man. This is your problem, our problem and the problem with the taxpayers of Serbia is that huge funds are being allocated to his work. See travel costs in Section - General Secretariat of the Government, 69 million dinars. Almost, then a million euros. I remind you that the costs of the Constitutional Court of Serbia are lower than the projected travel costs of Dejan Mihajlov, that the costs of prosecutors or war crimes prosecutors are less than the projected travel costs of Dejan Mihajlov. Is that what he founded the travel agency, the Jolie Tours competition, or the Con-Tiki? It would be funny if it weren't sad, it's, unfortunately, tragic. The government's press co-operation office, I haven't heard a single letter, hasn't heard from it since it was formed, again a million euros, i.e. to be precise, slightly less than a million euros, 73 million dinars, means 900,000 euros. I remind you that there are two media relations offices, one prime minister, one part of the government -- in the image of Srdjan Djuric, who advertises every evening, and the other one, the official one, who, for what reasons, is silent. One more thing to remind you, the press co-operation office, according to the budget project, should spend 10 times as much as the Bureau of Communications in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Find the 2002 and 2003 budgets, and you'll see that what I'm saying is true. The next item concerns the Anti-Corruption Council. What I was saying about two cabinets, projected funds, or expenses for their work, is six times what was planned for the Anti-Corruption Council. You can't go to Europe like that. The travel costs of Dejan Mihajlov are five times higher than what needs to be allocated to the Anti-Corruption Council. Why is that? Because he wants to fully marginalize the Anti-Corruption Council. He is an icaban, so that representatives and officials of various international institutions can be told -- we have a Council to fight corruption. He is the prime minister's last hole in the play, because he should serve to expose numerous affairs and abuse of power. He was trying to do this to the Council for Combating Corruption and made a full report for the National Savings Bank and delivered it to the D.A., but, of course, since one of the ministers of both the previous and current governments at the top of the pyramid of abuse in the "National Savings" affair is nothing. "Knjaz Milos", "Meridian Home", "Satellite Eros" case, "Keramika Kanjiza", "Jugormedia", "The Veterinian Institute", privatisation of numerous banks, "Kargo Center" at the airport, Czech debt, "Syria Oil", Russian gas, privatisation of Mobtela, apartments "Cvećara", affair "Kofar", affair "Jelasic", purchase of locomotives over butomotives, "News", "Drum Mafia", which is at the top of the government, and the prime minister painted himself with some of the mob's bosses the other day, while opening a section of road across Zlatibor. The Educational Mafia was at the top of the government, but it didn't happen. The Danube Mafia, the tops of the tobacco mafia, are the tycoons that rule Serbia today, so when the story of the Cypriot money opens, then you will reach the master of Serbia, former and present-day Serbian lords and their "off-scor" companies in Cyprus. The "of Shore" companies and that money in Cyprus are, above all, from the tobacco store. I have filed criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic, waiting for him to come here, to see the role of the phantom criminal agency FIA, Lord Armstrong, Jessica Degrasi, Vukasin Wolf Minic, to see where these mafias and those abuses go. Zatonam doesn't need a Council to fight corruption, and that's why crumbs stand out for him, and that's why I've put this amendment in. We also suggested that the government's air force be lifted. I don't know if it's the second airline in Serbia after JAT, I know that even much richer states and governments don't have their own airline service, and I don't know why they spend so much of their travel expenses in all divisions if there's going to be an Air Force Service. One of the proposals is to cut the BIA spending drastically. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a poor country in which the separations for the BIA are for the secret service, and that is why the government is almost not formed, the same as the allocations for the National Assembly, for the most legislative body in this country -- over three billion and 300 million dinars. Here you have very discussional categories, special giving to employees, specialized services. Does that also mean paying these sleepers on the BIA list, which are being advertised these days in the papers, does that mean their newspapers and journalists? Some journalists are the official BIA. Does that mean paying the same ones who, for example, spent months trying to obstruct the trial process for the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, third bullet, second street, second assassin, ice bullet, photo-robot, constantly replacing the thesis and trying to prove that others killed Djindjic and not the ones who killed him? They're not the problem with executioners, they're not the ones who pulled the trigger, they're the problem with political employers, because it was a political murder. Then you need to look at who profited most. Those who came to power after Djindjic. It's quite clear. BIA mercenaries are covered by these enormous funds planned and designed to finance BIA. I have proposed a greater separation for the Anti-Corruption Council so that the Council can do what needs to be done by a Council on Combating Corruption in a democratic European state, which Serbia should, I guess, be today; unfortunately, it is not yet. I've suggested that the separations be increased for the judicial authorities. I'll remind you, the percentages are 2.7%. At the time I was the minister of justice, it was over 3.5%. So now they're 30% smaller. It must create an ambience, to restore dignity to the holders of judicial functions, but then to seek responsibility. It may sound unpopular, but it should be something that is, I repeat, unpopularly called a stick and carrot. Those who want to do this responsible job should be richly rewarded, and those who do not and do not know how to do it, do not have to work in the judiciary and do not have to be the holders of judicial functions. I suggested increasing the allocations for the Youth talent fund, because we can't talk about bright perspectives...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3377	One more minute. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3378	Mr. President, may I read the number? I don't know why that anxiety. ... for young talents. If we're talking about perspectives for young generations, and we're not doing anything to make them affirm themselves here, then, as it is right now, it's going to keep increasing ranks in front of foreign embassies, and then it's going to be cheap demagogy and empty letter on paper. We have proposed subsidies and an increase in the allocation for subsidies in agriculture and, finally, for buildings, construction facilities within the Ministry of Health. What we look like in our homes of health, what hospitals look like, is not what Serbia needs today, what a normal European state, like Serbia, with such a government, obviously cannot be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3379	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, then Mr Rajko Baralic. (Rajko Baralic, from the post: I applied before Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3380	The amendment Mr Vladan Batic spoke of contains several questions that deserve a special comment. It's good for a country to have its own airline. Mr. Batic. The government in which you were minister was using Stanko Subotica-Caneta's airline, the one operated by the sons of Jovica Stanisic and Mr Zecevic, the tour of Belgrade - Dubai - Belgrade, the Hotel Jadro, with seven stars. It's the most expensive thing for a country. As much as it costs a government plane service, it's cheapest for the citizens of this country to fund that airline. That's very important, because, otherwise, if you don't pay your bills, then those bills arrive multiple later, in different forms. Second question. This is a state where foreign intelligence services have been publishing their newspapers for five years, Mr. Batic. What you're talking about is that BIA, in a sense, has some influence, I don't know anything about it. If there is, it is possible that the issue of the subtly functioning of that service. Also, I want to tell you that for one state, such as ours, it is also important to have enough financial resources for all counterintelligence and protection measures. If that's not there, then we have other problems. So, I understand your argument, and I know that intimately you disagree with what you're saying. I understand that as a politician and I understand you as a politician. If we were to compare how much of our country's gross social product for the secret police, compared to all the other countries you represent as democratic, you'd see it's 1:150 or 1:180. So it would be more important for us, as MPs, to have the National Assembly's Security Committee fully motivated and trained to control the way these funds are spent, and I have no doubt that this will always be possible, unfortunately, in this House, because if the resources of the secret police are transparent until the end, then the existence of such a service makes no sense, because then it is impossible to provide, otherwise it would all be public security. And if it's all public security, then it's a simple thing: whistle, bat, pendrek, etc. For that reason, I could never support the amendment you submitted, even though I have understanding of what you did, because you now have a more comfortable position than when you were minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3381	Replica, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3382	I know that Mr. Baralic belongs to a political option that has survived for years thanks to the Secret Service: Udba, BIA, KOS and other secret services. Behind that service, Mr. Baralic, there are other graves, graves, black banners, accidents, war crimes. All evils are tied to that service. I don't mind, Mr. Baralic, that there are such services. First, what was proposed by this amendment is no demagogy. That's what I believe. The Secret Service exists in every country, and in those who are much more organized than ours, but its work is under Parliament's control. Can the work of the secret police in Serbia be controlled? He can't, Mr. Baralic. You know he can't. Therefore, never glorify our secret service. They are the evil that has brought this country so many accidents, and the rest are quite identical, unchanged, even resurrected, even revitalised under this power. Secondly, the government did not use, i.e. one time Zoran Djindjic was flying, the national fund was created by Serbian businessmen, by Stanka Subotica-Caneta, no other minister, ever. The government plane, while you were in power, flew daily with looted money and billions in Cyprus, among other things. That's the difference that concerns the government's air force. I said, there may be this airline, but why is it that the enormous, million-dollar travel costs in every class, or, perhaps, Dejan Michael's travels by ships or helicopters, if it's not an air force?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3383	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS have talked enough about the budget, will continue to speak. You will see that our relationship with incomes and expenditures stems from this debate, our desire to keep it absolutely under the control of the National Assembly, while we are in opposition and when we are in power. I just want to point out a few of the problems you're causing us with this budget. It was not by chance that the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution provided for the necessity of the first and second sessions, in which many laws are passed. He saw it coming because of the budget. I expected the budget to be made sooner, so we'd have to rebalance, adjust the budget to the new state that the Constitution is creating. However, although you have a new state, you have not adapted the apparatus to the Constitution, and the budget you would like to bring for the apparatus that you will adapt to the Constitution. That is why I am telling you that it is impossible to discuss the costs of the President of the Republic, because you have not passed a law on the President of the Republic. Only God knows how much the President of the Republic will have to do his jobs, since these jobs are generally foreseen by the Constitution and never by law. You say, for his legislative part, for the part about foreign affairs. By what law? How many of these obligations will they be, how many permanent employees will they be with the President of the Republic? Next, the Department of Defense. Not only is the question of how did you come up with the funding provided for by the Ministry of Defence, but the question is, by what law did you imagine the Ministry of Defense? When did the Assembly approve you of the defense law? That's where the military's funding comes in. When did the Assembly grant you the military law? You know how the budget is made - you finance the obligations made by law. What law is the obligation to finance the military, the defence, the president of the Republic, the MIP? Where's your law on foreign affairs? On what basis did you invent the MIP here, when we don't have a law on foreign affairs at all? How much will be represented, how many representations will work for more countries, how much money has the state to give us for it. Furthermore, in every chapter, in every function, almost all ministries, you have this famous, I mean, classification of 551, in which you mention (of course, and the Law on the Assembly, you're right, only you're making fun of it, and I'm seriously thinking about it and it's just the difference between us), the funding from the National Investment Plan, so we're going to defend ourselves from the National Investment Plan. Let me remind you that you've set up 400,000 neutral funds from last year to fund the defense. Well, what kind of defenses have left 400,000 assets, and the army hungry, unarmed, naked and barefoot. They let the kids go home on Friday to come back as soon as possible, on Sunday, so they don't eat for two days at the barracks. And, what's most ridiculous, you've set 18,000,000 dinars for funding the purchase of books for library work in Serbia, for all libraries, for all editions and for all the top achievements in Serbia in 2007, and you're not ashamed that the next sentence reads: "and the amount of 90,000,000 is intended for the maintenance of the White Court's castle complex on Dedinj". Whom did you ask if Serbia wanted to finance the castle complex and the court's crazy ones on the Dedinj amounting to 90,000,000 dinars this year? What court complex? Why do you separate it from any other museum? There lives one of your heirs, boasted a month ago on television that he couldn't even spend money last year. Changed the roofs, changed the facade, changed the carpentry, and couldn't spend the money. You're another 90,000,000 to invite you to some receptions a few times a year, to present yourself as the benefactor of this Serbia, to buy Roma children a doll, to paint there with children from Zvezanska and other children, and we give 90,000,000 for maintenance, and you say - the court complex. Where did we get the castle, where did we get the king? We have a building there that you gave to use a Serbian citizen. The question is, when are you going to answer for it? He could've been housed in a two-bedroom apartment. After all, many citizens have been taken away from all the property, you haven't returned anything to them yet, to return to this very citizen of England, and to this very citizen of England? In a country of republican order, confirmed by the new constitution, you call a funny man a Crown Prince on national television. And who will he succeed, Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic, because these are the only two functions anyone could inherit in Serbia? This national investment plan, in which you spend huge money, I really imagined very differently. I have to ask you how will the Department of Defense create a new value using the resources of the National Investment Plan? This ujdura with the purchase of mobile phone in Republika Srpska was presented as a major patriotic act, and in fact, City Bank financed all of this to get all the rooms of the National Savings Bank, our premises in Serbia. But Republika Srpska's government went before the Republika Srpska Assembly with a law on spending and investing funds received by privatising mobile telephony. And they said -- we give all the money to the economy, with a 4% interest per year. So they plan to invest it, to get it back to them, so they can invest further. And what do you invest in the National Investment Plan? In all the ministries in Serbia, how many parties have fought for that money. Someone got 15 million, some two billion, some 10 million, some million, doesn't matter. What's the purpose of these funds, you don't know, doesn't even know the finance minister. The one who's supposed to take care of the state register doesn't know which ministry is going to spend it, or whether it's going to pay him back. Is that money meant to be spent, or to be borrowed, to create a new value and to be returned? You know, it's the easiest thing to do. Selling good field and changing fences at home. Ministry of Education - funds from the National Investment Plan. If you don't have the money to finance education, say it here in the Assembly -- sorry, the budget is small, the revenues are small, we can't finance the schooling of children. We'll find a government that can. And not to say, we'll be able to fund child education, but we have to sell EPS, so we have to sell NIS. And what we're going to sell later, naked and barefoot like guns, spent money by privatisation, you don't care. Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, as soon as his mandate ended, began making money on the basis of his previous mandate. Today, he's protected by immunity in the government from everything he did when he wasn't a minister. There's a nice question, when you're working with different banks, are you making money for yourself when you're not ministers? That's what Djelic and Pitic did. Where's that former Energy Minister from the very government of Zoran Djindjic? He's selling half of Belgrade. Where did he get that location on his way out of Belgrade, which now turns into some mega-markets and sells, inn? Did his grandfather make that in Canada while he was washing dishes? It's the easiest thing to do, you write the booklet, the MPs won't read it, they won't remember it, even if we give it to them 15 hours before the session, come on, mother's sons, to read it. I tell you, the exercise of power in Serbia is not just a way to earn money. That's what you've thought of as a good way since 2000. There's a dozen of you, no more so-called. economic experts, and you know who your dad is. For a time, he was in the same building where the Ministry of Privatisation went upstairs to give you orders, to evaluate your work, to say in the morning what he was able to sell during the night, through this current minister, who was not a minister at the time, but served very well to all the governments so far. If I was the director of the Privatisation Agency, I'd go out here and say, ladies and gentlemen, we've sold so many and so many companies, Serbia is now richer by so much and so much, for so many new jobs, for new capacities, we produce it, that and that. What do you want to boast about, the ones who privatized hundreds of businesses?- I'm sorry. What is he doing in Serbia from these privatised companies? All your friends, all your partners, your party friends, foreign mecenaries, foreign sponsors, Serbia on sale. That's how you bring this budget. I'm sure there's enough of you to vote for this, but think carefully about what the budget is for. That money, hard-earned among citizens, could be spent in an easy way?- I'm sorry. I don't care about the plane service. You've been on planes before. I'd rather the state buy you all a plane so no one can buy you for a ride. I'd like the state to buy you everything you need. I prefer that Bozidar Djelic said -- give me 500,000 euros while I am a minister, than he took 11m euros from a private minister. But you don't care, this is a burden to you, Mr. Minister, it's your burden to perform a public function. It's nice to be hidden, everything's under your control, everything's under control, and you don't show up in public. This is now a debt, Mr. Minister, this is your debt to those who have placed you in an extraordinary place where you have burned and burned. Now you've come to the assembly pay phone, in front of the MPs, who want to hear from you and something else. You've put the budget together, there's been a budget war, everyone's dragged to their side, God knows how it's going to come to the realization of the budget. You need the budget so you don't fall into the trap of non-constitutional economic financing from June 30th. I understand that. Just one thing to let you know, this is huge money and you know who's bringing you that money - poor people. This is your import of goods that flooded us and shut down our factories. This budget was created by consumption, not production. That way he won't be able to go for long. For a while, the people will work for you and earn and separate, and then they will have nothing more to pay. That day is very close. That day you, the cruel monetaryists, can't predict at all, and you can't say -- that's enough, I'm gonna stop now, I'm out of line. You live in the clouds, you only hang out with each other. Come along, you who claim to live much better in Serbia, that Serbia is making progress since you came, amongst the ordinary world. But that's where you introduce yourselves. Say, since you've been hiding well so far, no one knows your character, say, "I'm the finance minister who's about to strangle you." Don't tell us stories about helping certain categories of citizens, when you know very well that the Constitution doesn't allow it. Don't lie to our children that your first apartment will be tax-free, because it won't allow you the Constitutional Court, whatever it is. They'll tell you, and why not every first apartment? Why not the one who builds a house, why not the one who builds a house in the country? Why don't we cut him loose? What, just the first apartment? Then he'll say, "Why not the pensioners?" Why not free the pensioners, so that apartment will be inherited by a young couple? Think about what the Constitution says. Do you have to separate us or do you have to even us? Lower those tax obligations to as many citizens of Serbia as possible, but, therefore, reduce and subtract from those of which you have not taken. Some of you shouldn't have. The easiest thing to do is to kidnap the poor. The easiest thing to do is to continue what used to be inevitable -- not to pay taxes or contributions, and now it's done. The easiest thing to do is to escape someone into the gray economy, and you to load yourself on 10-15 companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3385	Time, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3386	Here, I'm done, let the microphone be heard, so I'm distracted by thinking. I have to tell you, it's very hard to run the country. It won't be easy for you, especially at this time that I don't think it's going to last, because for other reasons, or because of this budget you're going to fall and fight, you're going to fight over ideology, because of the political problems that are waiting for us. That's why, if I had made a solid budget if I were you, Mr. Minister, I wouldn't have given in, and I wouldn't have allowed political parties to live, I wouldn't have accepted the blackmailing amendments of political parties, especially not such ridiculous amendments. These amendments, to the 600-billion-dollar budget, provide for a change to two million dinars in some classification. I'd say - I'm sorry, this is an unserious amendment, we're dealing with much higher incomes and expenditures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3387	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Thank you very much. There's a word Mr. Minister. There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3388	Just two sentences I'd say, I won't keep you. For precision, because there were words around the apartment, I can say there's no time limit. The first apartment also applies to pensioners. Also, the house is just like the apartment. I wanted to say something else about privatisation, since it was mentioned. I was pleased to hear last night that the Centre for Bonity published the results of the business of the Serbian economy for 2006 and said that in 2006, for the first time in 20 years, Serbia's economy, on average, was doing profits. The profile reached in that year is around 1,200,000 euros. When viewed by sectors, only the social sector was negative. The other sectors were positive. But because he's far less than he was years ago, these others managed to cover that negativity for the first time in a year, to even, on average, make a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3389	Thank you. There is a word from MP Vladan Batic. Here you go. You have your word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3390	I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to give me a notice, that's Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, about that amendment of mine. I remained denied the answer to that question. So, which are the reasons for the rejection, or the government does not want to increase expenditure for the Council on Combating Corruption, on judicial authorities, or on municipal courts, for the Youth Fund, for subsidies in agriculture, for buildings and construction facilities at the Ministry of Health. That's where you think of health facilities, which are in poor and poor shape?- I'm sorry. Maybe that's because they invest huge money in the renovation of the government facility on Tolstoy Street number 2a, which should serve as a residence of the prime minister and probably those who serve it. That's why our health and hospital homes are probably in such a poor state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3391	Thank you very much. To Article 5. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Minister, answer, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3392	Well, here, I'd say next. The amendment you've given is quite, I'd say, massive and contains one mass of proposal. The first thing about such amendments is to establish the digital correctness, given that certain segments cannot be accepted, but an amendment in general, so you can either accept it or reject it. When the control was carried out, it turned out that he was not numerically balanced. So before we even entered its substance, we concluded that we could accept it, because there is no balance, which is necessary under the Budgetary System Act. So the amendment was basically rejected as legally impossible, and we remained as good reading, reading it, and eventually taking something from it to be useful when making the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3393	So we're definitely moving on to Article 5. Section 3. You don't have to answer the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic. You have 15 minutes, like the SPS, and you can talk. Of course I give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3394	Dear fellow Members of the People, who is interested in this assembly, it is a relative matter. I'm completely convinced, from what I've been listening to in the past few days, that you don't care at all what it says in this book called the budget, because it's only the minister that answers. But only you do it that way, you won't be long. Mr. President, I wanted, using the Rules of Procedure, to announce to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not this one, but Mr. Vuk Jeremic, one information that may be important to the state, at least we Socialists think so. On Monday, a film festival will begin in Copenhagen, featuring a film from former Yugoslavia titled "Milosevic, Balkan Butcher". We believe, the Socialists, that the minister, or appropriate diplomatic and consular representation, should react for at least two reasons. Milosevic is dead, and the process in The Hague tribunal has been suspended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3395	Mr. Beard, I really must warn you. What does that have to do with the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3396	I said I was using my parliamentary right. Don't be silly now, I said I'm using my right. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3397	And you are referring to what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3398	I refer to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'm very precise in terms. So, Mr. Vuk Jeremic and the diplomatic-consular representation to take appropriate measures, to react to get the film off the repertoire, for a simple reason, which, in our opinion, Milosevic was killed in The Hague tribunal. Others have a different qualification. Another important fact for this story and my request is that the International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled that Serbia is not involved in the events and consequences of the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that showing such a film is absolutely one political and every other campaign against Serbia. If there's someone who doesn't think so, okay, but in time I'm also warning the foreign minister, and the National Assembly, and the citizens, that it's time for the state to do something about it. Let them call for artistic freedoms, that's their right, but the state must react to protect the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3399	On Article 5, Section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has rejected this amendment. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3400	A colleague, Zoran Antic, submitted an amendment to Article 5. Section 3, Chapters 3 and 4, function 110, which, in fact, proposes to delete costs intended for the Office for Media Cooperation. In short, the explanation for this amendment is in the following. It is a common business of co-operation with the government with the media, which could be done by the General Secretariat, which has no insignificant means, because very significant funds are intended, and that is 312.390,000, for the secretariat. We think he could do the job at no extra cost of a million euros. What's the press co-operation office for? Obviously, the government is aware that it is a product that cannot pass without advertising, i.e. it is necessary to formulate public opinion and convince citizens of what they cannot convince themselves of, receiving wages, thinking about their future and assessing the results of the government's work. So, it is necessary to cooperate with the media, and this item -- services per contract, meaning that out of the total of 73 million are intended for the office's item, 23 million are intended for services under contract under this office. It's a practice started in 2000, it's the fluid of the DOS revolution, so economists, who knew how to write about the monetary sphere, and to provide information that would serve the critical public to assess the government's work, work in the National Bank, at various centres for liberal studies, various called non-governmental professional organisations, and thus shut up not to write critically about the government. By that principle, you have today's funding and round tables. Today, most of them are directed by the "Economist", whose majority owner is Mr. Bozidar Djelic, a man who owns Sopar Sas, who owns the 9.99 per cent Meridian Bank, a member of the Credit Agrikol Group, a man who owns the company Altis Investment, who founded the companies "Altis Consalting" and "Altis Investment Bank", and from the Netherlands, who, according to his own statement, has been consulting in transactions worth 500m euros. So, according to his statement -- 500m euros, of which, that only five percent of the commission was taken for the job, it is 25m euros, which Mr Djelic claims were fairly earned, and I will repeat it once again, were earned at a time when the agency did not have a registered jury account. So it was registered in June 2005, with a 500-dollar role, "Altis" his, from the Netherlands, and the rest paid -- Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic - 100 euros, Mr Marko Hinic - 100 euros, Mr Micanovic - 100 euros, and that's 800 euros from the stakes. This Mr. Djelic, to add, on the principle of conflict of interest and on the principle of broken Articles 161 and 162. The labour law, clauses - a ban on competition, that acquired connections, information and secrets cannot be used by another employer, i.e. for his own purposes, chose as an employer for free of charge to conduct Mr. Bojan Pajtic's consulting services and appeared in 2004, meaning, before registering a jury account, the current account of the company "Altis", and declared that he was coming there for free, to volunteerly advise Mr. Pajtic, because he is the lucky clientele he works for as the owner of the company "Altis". Did he pay taxes? I'm also calling on those responsible to check it out. But he couldn't, because he didn't even register a jury account, but he represented himself as a former finance minister, the owner of the Altis agency. Do you know what all that had to do with the results? He was a consultant in the privatisation of the DDOR, so the stay in Novi Sad paid off. Among other things, he was a consultant for the merger of Grand Proma and Kolinska, the Minister, the Grand Proma, which you today reduce from 40 to 30, because coffee is a broad consumption product, but it is a luxury, but it is a diesel fuel used for construction machinery, for you luxury, because you now burden it with taxes, or exclude it from the right to refund tax obligations. So, Mr. Bozidar Djelic had numerous successful advisory jobs, which enabled him to access his own public money advertising. On the same principle, today the Office for Media Cooperation is only interviewing those economists who positively write about joining the European Union, who do not tell citizens that membership in the European Union is 1.24 per cent of gross social product, and that they return from the access funds 2 per cent of gross national product. So the net profit from the entrance should be about 0.7 percent. That is not true, because the assessment of economic experts is that all countries entering the European Union have the cost of harmonising their EU entry rules, which is measured by values of two to three percent of gross national income. So the calculated net damage from eventual EU entry would be minus 2.3 per cent. I've quoted economists who write about this, who don't pay for these and these offices. Such economists and analysts don't call for round tables economists, they don't take pictures on television or in a diary, which is not insignificant, because those who are recommended by such offices and by the government, whose statements are being broadcast, are interesting as the owners of counseling houses, various law offices, which, too, allow you to enter into that group of cobwebs if they report to make their annual traffic, were up to two million earlier, and now up to four million. I want to explain to the citizens what it means, which means that with one of the attorneys of this guy, who's paying his taxes on a flat-rate basis, you can agree not to pay him a legal favor by the invoice, with VAT, so as much as she's really costing, but says, give me one 25 grand, and I'll show it to him, because I'm a cobweb, and I'm actually paying me 100 grand, what it costs. So the state is damaged, but such lawyers and consultants and marketing experts are easily able to establish friendly relations and be flow water heaters for walking money from the government's accounts, through these marketing and consulting houses, in a way the people call money laundering. Paying for services that don't need a work order, a specific product, and behind which no precise control can be done tomorrow. What is devastating for me is that for the Press Office you have predicted almost a million euros, and for the State Auditing Institution nine million euros and 14 employees, but the amendment will be discussed by counterpart Obradovic. You have foreseen nine million euros for 14 people who need to organise and control six outstanding final accounts of this institution, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic, all public enterprises at the republic level, all municipalities, local self-government, cities, their public enterprises, all private enterprises that operate on the basis of public procurement with these public enterprises, all political parties. Is this the kind of approach that the government is seeking to fight corruption or corruption? Is the government in this kind of distribution of money through the budget advocating the truth about the movement of cash flows? Is he in favour of advertising, or self-velocity, or does he really want to account for eight billion euros in this account to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's a question to which citizens will be answered by the government but also by us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3401	Thank you very much. There are three minutes left for the SRS. Here you go. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3402	Mr. Dulic, you forgot what I said last time - to oblige the government to deliver on these items - services per contract, monthly reports, how it is spent and what it is spent. Now let's get this press co-operation office straight. It's an agent-bero government. They'll have 33 employees by the end of the year, as many as they have now. The EU's accession office is 36 and will have 52 employees by the end of the year. Services under contract in this position, as far as the Office of Media Cooperation is concerned, are 23.7 million dinars. The question is, why do you have RTS? You don't have to pay RTS to publish some information about the state's activities, do you? It's a public service. You're paying for something here. We kind of skipped two very important divisions. One is the cabinet of the Prime Minister. So Vojislav Kostunica directly costs this country 48 million dinars. The government vice president's office, it's slightly cheaper -- 36.7 million dinars. When the number of employees in these positions is compared, or in these cabinets, if they are even cabinets, the cabinet of the Prime Minister will have 19 employees, and the Vice-President's Office - 36 employees. That's what they learned from Zoran Djindjic, you know. Do you share my opinion? I know you're sharing my opinion. Don't you share my opinion? Come out and say I'm wrong. You won't? You can't? What do I do? I would recommend that when you leave this room, you go to a village and convince the citizens of your opinion. You'll have a hard time convincing them. When Zoran Djindjic formed the government on January 21st 2001, he had no confidence in his ministers there. However, half of his were under someone else's tags, at Batic's, with these others, etc. Then he formed that cabinet, his service, his own agencies, and there he concentrated power, concentrated power. We now have democratic authority in the government and the government of the DSS. Both authorities are on the same path. Their goal is the same. You see, it doesn't matter what position it is, it's important to be the amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3403	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3404	I'll move, I'll come back. Mr. Dulic, just to let you know, all of the presidents of the National Assembly who were working intensively on how to change the Rules of Procedure, very soon after the change of Rules of Procedure, were becoming former presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3405	Mr. Krassic, now I'm telling you, I'm anxious to wait for you to come back for the pay phone and listen to you very carefully. I don't know what the change in Rules of Procedure has to do with the fact that I warned you that you'd used your time as an SRS agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3406	Mr. Dulic, don't get caught up in non-intelligence syndrome. I'm extremely well-informed. I know you're working intensively on changing your Rules of Procedure with this one plus one equals two. I'm well informed, I'm just telling you in advance, I'm telling you all in advance what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3407	All right, thanks a lot. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Thank you. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The legislative committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Section 3, Section 3, Chapter 3.5, of the 110, the budget allocations for the EU's Association Office amounting to 77,124,441 dinars, of which 63,668,000 dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget are set out. So a figure that is slightly less than one million euros. According to EU officials, the application for membership of this organisation will be possible from 2012, meaning five years from now. Given that, we need to point out that the state, at a time when the budget deficit is 13 billion dinars, is unnecessarily increasing the state administration, and especially when taking into account a few facts. First, this matter is partially processed in one part by the Foreign Ministry. There's already some money in this ministry for that. The alignment of the law with that is done by this home, the National Assembly. We have criticised the establishment of a large number of agencies, three types of different agencies, which, although established by law, are spending huge budget money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia completely without control, since we haven't had a final account in six years, and a large and inefficient state apparatus is being created. In this case, it's not even about the agency, it's about an office established by the government's decision, therefore, by a sublegal act on government services. So, one much worse and more inconclusive example that spends much more money on Serbian citizens completely, as you say, non-transparently. At the same time, we have several controversial items. In this division of nearly a million euros, 77 million dinars, almost half the money, about 30 million are spent on contract services. We have repeatedly talked about this as a source of potential corruption because these services under contract and specialised services are problematic in all budgets, from local to republican budgets. They usually serve as a front for the illegal spending of money because you can't see clearly... Of course, Serbia does not see at all, since the final account is missing, there is no constitutional court to complain about when something is unconstitutional, so it is absolutely impossible to get to where the budget money of Serbian citizens is spent. But when you see it, it is quite clear that these items are what services are like under the contract, specialised services, money is spent in such a way as not to know who deals with these works, or contracts, who implements them, under which conditions, often different tenders are placed, etc. Especially when you have examples to compare, which of course you can't, because we don't have the final accounts, the items that are foreseen by the budget, in which amount they were. And if we were to get, as we do not get in Serbia, the final bill would come (of course, we can, when we try to get to that data), get astounding data as how much more money is spent on contract services and specialized services all over the sections and see that there is a basis in these points to be concerned that Serbia's money is being spent completely illegally and unintendedly. Corruption is one of Serbia's biggest problems today, because we do not have effective measures, laws, different organs and structures. And those laws we have don't apply, of course. We have a situation that, for example, for the Anti-Corruption Alliance, there are 13,700,000 dinars, and that 70,000,000 dinars stand out for this office. That is precisely what illustrates the desire of the authorities not to fight corruption and crime. Everything that's been done to show on TV is just to get eyes dirty, while key affairs, like the ones with the airport, the "sartid affair", the affair with the Cypriot money, the affair with Bora, the National Savings, an affair with the sale of military property, which was talked about several days ago by General Delic, when the artillery barracks, the artillery school, which otherwise has decades of history, just because the said barracks are on the highway and what someone needs to sell that barracks and take the commission... Countless affairs are from the privatisation process, which unfortunately all citizens of this country felt when they lost their jobs, so Serbia today has about 930,000 unemployed. False tenders, auctioned auctions, an affair that we discovered here with the vice president of the government who has 11m euros that we've heard he acquired, breaking all laws, breaking morale; an affair with sugars sold for one euro, with cements that have been sold for budgets, the lack of a final account in the Republic for six years, that we can't even know where the taxpayers' money is spent; all this tells you why we don't have any more effective fight against corruption and crime, and that's why the Anti-Corruption Council is being singled out, for example, 13 million dinars. Can someone tell me why the public audit institution has 14 employees, and so much is planned by the end of the year, and the European Union Association Office is increasing this year from 38 to 52 employees, and is this really important for Serbia right now? I'd really like to hear that answer. Furthermore, the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly voiced its view that the European Union's relationship to the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, respect for international laws, respect for United Nations Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia... And I will remind you that at this moment Serbia is fighting the most difficult battle to preserve the work of its territory, at the moment that most of our people are worried about whether Serbia will remain comprehensive and truly care for the future, both its own and its children. So, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that the European Union's relationship to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia... If they say - yes, we want to respect international law, we want to respect Resolution 1244 and help Serbia preserve Kosovo and Metohija in its composition, then for the Serbian Radical Party the path to the European Union will be something we will be able to tell the citizens that it is okay to think about. Of course, there are many more economic aspects to consider, but it is already a place for another story. If, however, the European Union stands in a position contrary to international laws and Resolution 1244 and supports the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, therefore, supports the abduction of the work of our territory, then the question is whether such an office should exist at all, and certainly that Serbia is then not the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3409	Thank you. Here you go. Six minutes, Serbian Radical Party. Consider that Mr Krasic also answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have before us an amendment submitted by my colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic, who in Article 5 has removed 3 functions 110, means the Office for Joining the European Union, with 63,668,000 dinars from the budget, 13 million from donations from international organisations and 240,000 from donations from foreign countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are currently discussing the inauguration of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 in particular, which is information for the ruling coalition, or their MPs, because a good part of the ruling parties are not taking part in the debate and are not attending the session, but are walking in the halls, staying in offices or in the city. But it's no wonder, it happens in all the congregations, from the congregation of municipalities to the republican congregation, as long as they're called Democrats. Councilors and MPs of the ruling DS, DSS, G17 plus are party soldiers waiting to be given a voter's moment, and they just raise their hand or press the corresponding key and not thinking about bringing back our country, our economy and our people back. By doing that, they're, like, pushing themselves forward in front of everyone. In principle, Serbian Radical Party MPs tried to distract and point out all the negativeities of your 2007 proposal for Serbia's budget, but the minister and government remained deaf to all our attempts. It is important that the ministers split the money from the budget by their ministries and by that people's thought "and the wolf is full and the sheep are numbered", only the people of Serbia are at a loss or better to say, the people of Serbia have been at a loss since 5 October 2000, when you settled in the chairs and nothing matters to you, nothing matters to you except that you stay in your seats and your chairs for as long as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and with a large number of amendments tried to draw your attention to a large number of mistakes that you missed by accident, or rather will be deliberate. And now that amendments submitted to a large number of members of this 2007 bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget are being discussed, it is a shame there are no ministers to hear what is proposed to these amendments, not just to have Minister Cvetkovic and some other ministers sitting. With all due respect, my opinion is that one man cannot completely clear all objections to the 2007 budget law of the Republic of Serbia and make answers to questions asked. Maybe it's part of the tactics that the minister can answer just certain questions without giving some questions an answer and just shut up. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it should be said that we have a VAT of 18%, and that there is an average of 15% in all countries, and there is still no speech on the reduction of that VAT. Also, it should be said that the increase in expenditure in this new budget by 20% will certainly cause inflation to rise, and inflation will certainly increase the excise duty on the gas of six dinars, which has not existed so far, and will only increase the costs of citizens using this energy. The ruling coalition's representatives praise the tax reduction in the purchase of the first apartment, and do not tell citizens that the increase in excise duty on fuel used by the construction machinery involved in the construction of these apartments will lead to an increase in the price of these apartments, so that there will be nothing of your convenience, yet citizens who first buy the apartment will have damage. Not to mention the benefits you've given for buying the first apartment, there's only one problem you can't overcome, which is that people who don't have an apartment can't raise a loan because they have nothing to put a mortgage on that is necessary when they're raising a loan. The credit story is a special item, because the credit price in Serbia is much higher than in the surrounding countries, and citizens who raise credit for one apartment through payment of loans and two apartments. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is, what about the 17 billion neutral funds shown in the first draft budget for 2007, and then magically disappeared in your new budget proposal for 2007. Also, you're talking about increasing employment. You're really right. The increase in employment can be seen, but in the government, with the President of the Republic, which is probably in a number of counselors, maybe some godfather or paved to be employed. They will all receive large salaries, official cars, and citizens of Serbia, or millions of people unemployed in Serbia, will see nothing and will not feel better. You don't think about reducing wages, and that would be the way to a new employment of workers. Several times, the question has been asked whether it is possible for the government's airline to go through the budget twice, once in the amount of 149,71,000 dinars, and before that, through travel costs. It is very interesting that the government and the cabinet of the Prime Minister will spend 200,000 dinars on travel costs, and that the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister on travel costs, which is an economic classification of 422, will spend 6,700,000 dinars, making it clear that the Vice President's Office will spend 33 times more than the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Does this mean that the Prime Minister will not travel or that the Deputy Prime Minister will travel where there is no need to travel? Serbian citizens should know that our interior ministry, besides budget funds, will also be financed by donations from NGOs and individuals, amounting to seven and a half million dinars. That's one big question, who needs special attention. It should also be said that institutions that are on the budget will receive about a billion dinars and from donations from international organisations and donations from foreign countries, and the question is how realistic it is that the funds will reach the users. An even bigger question is what this government and the president of the state need to do to get those funds there. Looking at what is happening in the country of Serbia and how the generals are arrested, they deliver to The Hague and how the ruling coalition is fleeing the debate on Kosovo and Metohija, it is clear to all of us and Serbian citizens what they should do. But that will not happen, as Serbian Radical Party MPs, using all parliamentary means, will try and prevent it. Finally, what to say for this budget, but that it is neither developmental nor social, is only to the detriment of our citizens. That is why I draw particular attention to all of you MPs from the ruling coalition to vote in favour of the Serbian Radical Party amendment, because this will save what can still be saved in Serbia. Don't just think about yourself, think about the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3411	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3412	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have turned our attention these days and MPs of the parliamentary majority and government to the National Assembly to discuss the budget and that it is necessary for all members of the government to sit here or at least those who are willing to communicate with the MPs. We have found that the government is not interested in either the budget or the way it will spend money on Serbian citizens. That's what they showed in this draft budget that we've been discussing for a few days. Only opposition MPs participate in the work, MPs of the assembly majority do not participate in the work, and not only do they not participate but they are not in the hall. But that's why he has more cards than he has MPs. I know that you have brought such a Rules of Procedure that there is no need for the MP to sit in the hall, but, taught by the experience of the Bodrum vote, from Thessaloniki, we must make sure that the MP sitting in the sea, in accordance with Article 86, is recorded in the MP's unit, or... I see you're looking at me, colleague Gavrilovich, you'll say - what did you not register? I just want to tell you that there are more registered cards on your side than MPs. As your electronic system works, here you can see: what's my place, my card, my name and last name, is with me, as is on your side in several places. The MP is also obliged when he comes out to take his card, or to take it out of the parliamentary unit. Please, Mr. President, you should see from there what's going on in the O.R., to look at it occasionally, so if you see a card and there are no MPs to call for the service to take out these cards, not just from time to time, over this table, you cross the camera and it shows that you, too, from the ruling majority, are interested in the budget. No, you're not interested, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You can't wait for this job to end. (President: Time. ) Thank you very much. Take proper care of the Rules of Procedure when you control the time of Serbian Radical Party MPs, and I would ask you to take care of this and what I have turned your attention to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3413	Thank you. If you would like us to make a point, then we could also call on Article 222, for example, which says, "The National MP who is on permanent duty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", which means that he receives the salary, "he is obliged to attend the session when determining the quorum, as well as during the session session, at the session of the National Assembly. "What would you do with your salaries if we strictly adhere to Rule 1 of Rule 222? I agree with you, Mrs. Radeta, that it happens that one of the MPs comes out and leaves a card in the unit, but you have to understand that it would be nice of you to sit in the O.R. to register as well. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3414	It's inadmissible, Mr. Dulic, what you said. You've been trying 15 days to be tolerated, to smile, not to show impatience, but here, at 21.40 hours it's time for some other activity and almost, no more patience. Mr. Dulic, if we are talking about Members of Parliament who are constantly working, then the citizens of Serbia are great at seeing who is here in constant work and who is passing through. Serbian citizens see when the agenda is established, when MPs of the assembly majority vote for the agenda and then the stampede, watch when they break; you can't continue working out of so much noise, because they all run out, have no patience at least one by one to come out in about ten minutes. Also, Serbian citizens who are monitoring the work of this parliament see who is truly working in this parliament, who are really representing the interests of Serbian citizens and who are only protecting the government of the Republic of Serbia. Parliamentarians, with you at the helm, Mr. Dulic, in this House only exist to press the green button and vote in favour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You don't care, and you don't even know what's on the agenda. Now let's interview your MPs, if they tell me what amendment is currently being discussed, I'll, I don't know how to honor them. Mr. Dulic, take care of it and keep in mind that we are MPs of the opposition and that we will never give you a quorum, but we will participate in the work. We will participate in the work in a way that we will criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we will also criticise your indolence towards the National Assembly, according to your work. I remind you, Mr. Dulliche, that you are from the party... How long was it, Krasic, the months of these yellow Democrats that didn't come to the assembly, and they were getting paid, how many months was it? They didn't enter the building for five months; they came into the building twice a month, when the pay and the cobwebs were received, and you weren't in the hall, let alone that you had identified yourselves. It is truly immoral and incorrect that you tried to distract yourself earlier, as we Serbian Radical Party MPs do not earn salaries in parliament. (President: Time. We, Mr. Dulic, do what we want for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-21-0.u3415	Thank you very much. I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue our work in 15 minutes. You'll all get your word on the Rules of Procedure after your break. Thank you. [[After break – 22.00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform Mr Vasiljevic and all the MPs that we have made contact with the hospital in Thessaloniki. Mrs. Nikolic, who are injured, who are hospitalized, are well, thanking the attention the National Assembly has expressed, welcome us, feel good and want to come to Serbia and continue treatment in Belgrade. We will try to contact our health authorities and enable them to do so. Since it's already too late and we still have a lot to do, I suggest we interrupt the session and continue our work tomorrow at 10.00.
