ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the little delay. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 230 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Donka Banovic and Esad Djudjevic. We move to item 1 and 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic and a Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic (Principles) Consensual decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law on the President of the Republic and the Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. Before I give my word to Prime Minister Milan Markovic's representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic called according to Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11726	First of all, Mr. President, let me inform you that I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure before you open the debate, because I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure on the last day of last week, when you put something that couldn't have been put to the vote, which affected the agenda. So I ask you to take a little more care of the dignity of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Believe me, since the arrival of the DOS, I have seen many presidents of the National Assembly who thought they could do anything if they vote 126 MPs. Not only are they no longer presidents of the National Assembly, but none of them represent anything in Serbia's political life anymore. Pay attention to that and, please, be careful not to be used so much that in the next meeting of the National Assembly and you, Mr. Dulic, do not represent anything in Serbia's political life. Namely, you severely injured the Rules of Procedure when you put the motion to take part in the agenda of the session that began to withdraw point 3. MPs' questions and requests for information and explanations on the basis of Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, using Article 143. Rules of Procedure, I think, paragraph 2, do not take account of Article 90(3). You have applied the procedure - when someone proposes the law, when the Assembly sets the agenda and then during the session, and before the debate is opened, the legislator proposes to the Assembly that it remove the law from the agenda. MPs, if there are 126 in the O.R., vote and take the proposal off the agenda. But, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you delivered us a draft agenda. You're not proposing a point-to-point MP's question. You are the president of the National Assembly, who proposes the agenda. In that agenda were parliamentary questions and notifications. You don't have that point as a proposal. In that case, you might also suggest some law that someone else has proposed, and you would put it on the agenda to make it available as if you were the promoter. So the parliamentary issues are a business provision, not your mercy, not your will, not your wish, so when the president of the National Assembly wants to give us parliamentary questions -- we'll have them at the session, when he won't -- we don't have them. And even when the president of the National Assembly has mercy to put it on the agenda, so he gets a warrant that it cannot be on the agenda, then he will gather in the 126 MPs' room who will vote most of them for no parliamentary questions. In this way you could vote that there is no congregation, that there is no life today, that there is no water and air. But think carefully, Mr. President, you have absolutely severely injured the Rules of Procedure by proposing that one point be removed from your proposed agenda. You opened the session and then suggested that one point be removed. Well, then what do you serve us, Mr. President? (The President: warns by the bell of the speaker in time) I apologize, I will finish. It is your role to inform us in good time about what will be on the agenda, that we prepare for this agenda. Our proposer may surprise and withdraw the proposal. I agree, you're not proposing this point. You just wrote a draft agenda. You can probably cancel the session because you have the whole agenda, but you don't have one item in the agenda, especially not the point concerning the right to an MP's question concerning the rights of the opposition, Mr. President. On Saturday, at the end of the session, you severely injured the rights of the opposition. The ruling majority are not interested in parliamentary issues at all because you can ask these questions directly by telephone -- I see this, I see and what I see, I'm not being paid for, neither is this, nor is that. We do not have that kind of communication with ministers and, apart from the National Assembly, another kind of communication, it would be good if we did not have authority. Don't make us start asking questions on the street. No, it's not good for anyone. You came alone in this way in power and look at what you look like now. You look like the ones who led the Fifth of October. That's what you're doing. For you seven years, the government wasn't enough to learn what democracy is. Vengeance for those who were in power lasted a year, two, three, and where will you go, where will you go? Now get your hands on the opposition. No more former regimes. And you've all been both regimes and former regimes once. So, this hour by taking off the agenda of the points that are in the interest of the opposition, you are consecrating yourself to the opposition, preventing the opposition from solving its issues here in the institution. When he's not in the institution, he's out of the institution. If that is your wish, Mr. President, or if that is the wish of the one who manages life in the congregation, we can grant you this wish and only our principle prevents the members of our party from fulfilling that wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11727	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I respect, of course, your vast parliamentary experience, and years, and I always listen to you when you point to some of the failures regarding the respect of the Rules of Procedure. This time, the Rules of Procedure are not precise and clear about asking parliamentary questions, and you know it very well, as all MPs know it. At the last session, I put on the agenda a point of Parliament's questions. That's the point we had two days ago. You know for a fact that there was a series of inaccuracies that led us into a situation that we had to creatively interpret the Rules of Procedure and perform a so-called so-called "Brain." pilot project of parliamentary issues. I intend to organize them in the future because I think it is good, and I believe that day was the victory of parliamentaryism, and that day was the real proof that parliament could question ministers and control the government. I'm going to organize that in the future, but not in this way, because it's inaccurately defined. I ask all parliamentary groups to request that the day on which the parliamentary questions are to be asked be scheduled, in accordance with Article 202. The Rules of Procedure and all positions of that member of the Rules of Procedure which define this, shall we call upon the Ministers and then apply Rule 202. The Rules of Procedure and all other points on parliamentary matters. Of course, you have the right at the beginning and at the end of the session and after the debate is concluded to ask parliamentary questions because this allows you to do so by the Rules of Procedure. That's my answer to your question. I, as President of Parliament, have put on the agenda a point of Parliament's questions. Given that the proposal was to organise a special session on parliamentary issues, and this will be done whenever you wish, pulled the very point from the agenda so as not to be treated in the same way as any other law is treated. Thank you very much. There's a word for Minister Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11728	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have two draft laws - a bill on the President of the Republic and a bill on elections for the President of the Republic. I have the honour and pleasure to explain, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the basic solutions contained in these two draft laws and, then, to participate in the debate that will take place in this matter. So, the President of the Republic is the executive authority that, according to the constitutional decree, 'expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia'. This is contained in Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The position and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be governed by the Constitution, and some of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic should be further nuanced by relevant regional or sectoral laws, such as the Law on Defence, the Law on the Serbian Army, the Law on Foreign Affairs, the Law on Fines, the Law on Compensation, and others. The constitution also stipulates in Article 121 that special legislation will be passed on behalf of the President of the Republic and is on the agenda today. After this provision which has been taken over from Article 111, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that 'the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia', the bill then refers to the elections for the President of the Republic, stating that the elections are direct and the vote is secret, as provided for in Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and leaves to a special law to regulate them, as provided for in Article 2. Proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. This special law is now on the agenda and this is the draft law on election for the President of the Republic. The powers of the President of the Republic can only be established by the Constitution, as the highest legal act in the State. The legislative authority, as set out in the National Assembly, and the executive power, set up in the Government, shall not be empowered to amend the powers of the President of the Republic by laws or sublegal acts. The President of the Republic cannot, in particular in the area of defence, change its Constitution of established jurisdiction. The Constitution guarantees the position of the President of the Republic and his role in the legal and political system, while guaranteeing both the position and role of other state bodies. The constitution prevents the National Assembly and the Government, depending on the relationship between political forces, weakens or strengthens the position of the President of the Republic. The principle that the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution raises a question when the Constitution of the President of the Republic can develop a special law. According to the draft law, this can be done when the Constitution explicitly provides for the development of the individual competences of the President of the Republic and when the debate requires the nature of some of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, and this is provided for in Article 3(2). It's a bill of law. In a number of rules within the 'basic Provisions', the bill provides the most necessary conditions for the performance of the functions and competences of the President of the Republic. In principle, it is prescribed that the conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be ensured by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations, and this shall be provided for in Article 4. It's a bill of law. The President-in-Office of the Republic is in Belgrade, and this is determined by Article 5(1). It's a bill of law. The work of the President of the Republic is public, and information on the work of the President of the Republic is available to the public in accordance with the law governing free access to information of public importance and regulations governing the protection of classified information, and this is contained in Article 6. It's a bill of law. The rule on the incompatibility of the role of the President of the Republic with other public functions or professional activities has been taken over from Article 115. The Constitution is contained in Article 9(1). A bill of law in front of you. The term of office of the President of the Republic shall be five years, as set out in Article 10(1). Proposal for a law and adopted by Article 116(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Before the start of the term of office, the President of the Republic shall take an oath before the National Assembly, and the text of the oath shall be determined by the Constitution, in Article 114(4). The oath has a constitutional significance, which means that the term of office of the President of the Republic begins from the day on which he takes his oath, as provided for in Article 10(2). It's a bill of law. The President of the Republic has immunity, as do the MPs. This is provided for in Article 119(1). The Constitution and Article 11(1). It's a bill of law. No one can be elected more than twice as President of the Republic, as contained in Article 12. Proposal for a law and adopted by Article 116(3). The Constitution. The rule was that the President of the Republic ceases his term of office when five years have elapsed since the day he took his oath before the National Assembly. The term of office of the President of the Republic shall expire five years ago in two cases: if he resigns or is resolved. The draft law interprets the Constitution so that the resignation is submitted to the President of the National Assembly, and the resignation produces a legal fact when it arrives in the National Assembly, and this is set out in Article 14(2). It's a bill of law. The term of office of the President of the Republic shall cease when the National Assembly is resigned, that is, when they are deceived by the rules of office. As for the discharge, the President of the Republic has resolved the National Assembly with the votes of two-thirds of the MPs, and the reason for its resolution is the violation of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court is obliged to decide within 45 days of the initiation of the discharge procedure whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. The Constitution states that the Constitutional Court is the only one who is entitled to decide whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, while the National Assembly decides whether the President of the Republic, whom the Constitutional Court has decided to injure the Constitution, should be resolved. In doing so, the National Assembly does not have to dismiss the President of the Republic even if the Constitutional Court has found that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. Since only the Constitutional Court is competent to decide whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, the question is whether the National Assembly should at all declare whether the President of the Republic should be resolved when the Constitutional Court has already decided that the President has not violated the Constitution. The bill states that there is no procedural assumption that the procedure for resolution should continue if the Constitutional Court decides that the President of the Republic has not violated the Constitution. And therefore it is suspended when the Constitutional Court's decision is announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as provided for in Article 15(4). It's a bill of law. In other words, the National Assembly is authorized not to dismiss the President of the Republic for whom the Constitutional Court has decided to violate the Constitution, but the National Assembly is not authorized to dismiss the President of the Republic unless the Constitutional Court decides that he has not violated the Constitution. The President of the Republic of Macedonia may not expire as long as the state of war or emergency is taking place, but shall be extended until three months have elapsed since the date on which the war or emergency has ceased, as provided for in Article 116(3). The Constitution and Article 16(1). It's a bill of law. The term of office shall be extended by the power of the Constitution, without the need for anyone to make any decision. The constitutional position of the President of the Republic for the time being, while the mandate is extended, does not change at all. The Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall replace the President of the Republic if 'the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duty or his term of office shall cease before the time he is elected', and this shall be determined by Article 120(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 17. The draft law of the President of the National Assembly replacing the President of the Republic may exercise two types of jurisdiction over the President of the Republic. The first group of competencies are those which carry out ongoing state affairs (presentation of the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad and receipt of recall and accreditation letters from foreign diplomatic representatives), and the second group of competences are the powers to be exercised without delay so that the state does not suffer damage. These are: calling elections for the National Assembly (which prevents Serbia from being left without the National Assembly longer than is provided for in the Constitution), proposing to the National Assembly for the President of the Government (which prevents the National Assembly from disbanding, even though there may be a possibility to elect a Government), then the competencies involved in the defence of the Republic of Serbia (by law on defence), commanding the Army of Serbia and duty (not only the right) to disband the National Assembly in all cases in which it is the constitutional duty of the President of the Republic (in order to allow elections for MPs whenever the decision to disband the National Assembly of Declarative Nature). The President of the National Assembly who replaces the President of the Republic cannot submit a proposal to amend the Constitution, to disband the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, to grant pardons and medals, to appoint five judges of the Constitutional Court among the ten candidates proposed by the National Assembly, or to propose to the National Assembly ten candidates to elect between them five judges of the Constitutional Court, etc. He cannot bear either the delaying, or the suspension, vetoing the law that the National Assembly has passed, which was formulated in the bill of law as his duty to declare by any law that the National Assembly has passed. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly, acting as President of the Republic, is obliged to declare any law that the National Assembly votes. This is also provided for in Article 17(3). It's a bill of law. The bill regulates the most important responsibilities of the President of the Republic relating to the National Assembly. The President of the Republic shall propose to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister whenever the Government is elected, and this shall be provided for in Article 18(1). It's a bill of law. And when the first government is elected, after the constitution of the National Assembly, and when each new government is elected in the same assembly of the National Assembly. The right of the President of the Republic to put a postponement or suspension veto on the laws voted in the National Assembly is a form of participation by the President of the Republic in the exercise of the legislative authority and an example of the relationship between different branches of government. The President of the Republic, in doing so, may return the law to the National Assembly because it considers that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, that it is contrary to the approved international agreements or to the general rules of international law, that the adoption of the law does not respect the procedure prescribed for the adoption of the law or because it opposes the legal-political solutions contained in the law which is otherwise established. This is provided for in Article 19. It's a bill of law. The constitution also empowers the President of the Republic to disband the National Assembly. By disbanding the National Assembly, the government's mandate ends. The President of the Republic may, but does not have to disband the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the Government, and is obliged to disband the National Assembly in the cases referred to in the Constitution, and this is provided for in Articles 20(1) and (2). It's a bill of law. The President of the Republic, together with an indication of the disbanding of the Assembly, makes a decision to call elections for MPs, and this is provided for in Article 20(3). The bill, and the reason for this solution, is that the state gets the National Assembly with a full mandate as soon as possible. The President of the Republic cannot disband the National Assembly during war or emergency, which is also laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 109 and, of course, in this draft law in Article 19. The President of the Republic, who receives a reasoned proposal from the Government to disband the National Assembly, shall inform the Government and the public within 72 hours of the receipt of the proposal of the proposal, or, if he does not accept the proposal, that he has not accepted the proposal from the Government, and this is set out in Article 21(1). It's a bill of law. The deadline within which the President of the Republic is required to decide on a proposal from the Government makes it impossible for the President of the Republic to hold the National Assembly and the Government in suspense whether or not they will cease their term of office because of its indetermination or obstruction. "The government cannot propose the disbanding of the National Assembly if a proposal has been made to vote her mistrust or if she has raised the question of her trust," which is a provision contained in Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ratio's constitutional rule is that the government and the president of the Republic are making it impossible to prevent the creation of a new assembly majority, a government fall or a new government's choice by disbanding the National Assembly. In the draft law, the constitutional rule is operationalized by the formulation that the President of the Republic will not consider the Government's proposal if a proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly to vote for mistrust, if the National Assembly has not accepted the Government's response to the impeachment or if the Government has submitted a proposal to vote on confidence in the Government, and this is contained in Article 21(2). It's a bill of law. Finally, the President of the Republic is required to disband the National Assembly if it does not elect a Government within 30 days of the date of its entry into force or if it does not elect a new Government within 30 days of the date on which the previous Government has suspended its mandate, as contained in Article 22. It's a bill of law. The reasons for disbanding the National Assembly, which the President of the Republic cannot influence, are in the midst of which it is concluded that in this case the president has a constitutional duty to disband the National Assembly. The relations of the President of the Republic with other state authorities are briefly and in principle regulated, since it is the matter of other laws (the defence law, the Law on the Serbian Army, the law on pardon, the law on foreign affairs, etc.).). The relations of the President of the Republic with other national authorities shall be based on co-operation and communication, in accordance with the Constitution, law and other regulations and shall take place without delay when it requires the smooth exercise of the powers of the President of the Republic, as laid down in Article 23(1). It's a bill of law. The National Assembly and the Government shall inform the President of the Republic, upon request, of the issues of their competence which are relevant for the exercise of the powers of the President of the Republic, and this shall be determined by Article 23(2). It's a bill of law. The President of the Republic shall inform the National Assembly or the Government of their request on matters of its competence which are relevant for the exercise of the competence of the National Assembly or Government, and shall provide for the position of the same Member of the Law. The legal acts adopted by the President of the Republic are indications, decisions, rules, orders, orders, as well as other legal acts which are specific (area), sectoral, law, and that is laid down in Article 24(1). It's a bill of law. The most important legal act adopted by the President of the Republic is an order. The order is always an individual legal act. The President of the Republic declares the law, disbands the National Assembly, appoints and recalls the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia, gives medals and sets up, promotes and dissuades Serbian Army officers, as provided for in Article 24(2). It's a bill of law. The list of apparitions has been closed by the bill. On the other hand, the bill merely lists some cases where the President of the Republic makes decisions. The decision discusses elections for MPs, proposes to the National Assembly candidates for Prime Minister, pardons, appoints the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic, advisers of the President of the Republic and other officials in the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic; mediate cases where the decision has the nature of an individual legal act. In addition, by decision of the President of the Republic, it decides on issues which are not subject to other legal acts, which means that the decision is the basic form of legal act taken by the President of the Republic and, consequently, it does not necessarily have to be an individual legal act. In particular, the legal acts adopted by the President of the Republic in the area of defence have been laid down. These are: decisions, rules, orders and orders, as well as other legal acts laid down by law, primarily by law on defence, and by law on the Serbian Army. The legal acts of the President of the Republic shall be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and "The Official Military List", as set out in Article 25. It's a bill of law. The President of the Republic is an incoherent state body and therefore it must have a follow-up service that provides direct support in the exercise of its functions and responsibilities. The Office of the President of the Republic is called, as so far, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic. The draft law defines the General Secretariat as a service providing professional and technical support to the President of the Republic, which is set out in Article 26(1). It's a bill of law. The Secretary-General shall be managed by the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, as set out in Article 27, and he shall be a state official appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic, a political figure that binds his mandate to the existence and duration of the term of office of the President of the Republic, meaning that the term of office of the President and the Secretary-General shall cease, and he shall not be a civil servant. Employees of the General Secretariat who carry out other professional and technical tasks shall have the position of civil servants and deputies and shall be subject to the Law on civil servants, the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies and other regulations governing the official system in the Republic of Serbia. When they transferred the right to pay the President of the Republic and other rights which belong to the President of the Republic on the basis of their work while his term of office, the draft law does not particularly set out the President of the Republic from other officials in the state bodies, and that is provided for in Article 33. It's a bill of law. The laws governing the salary of the President of the Republic are: Law on salaries in state bodies and public services, Law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic, Regulation on fees and other receipts of elected and appointed persons in state bodies, as well as general rules on labour, i.e. the Labour Act. So on this basis, the President of the Republic is in no way different from other officials. The bill also governs the rights of the President of the Republic after his term of office has ceased. He can do that, but he doesn't have to use it. In principle, only the President of the Republic who has been resolved has no right to cease office by the President of the Republic of Command for some long reason, which, through the reason for which he has been resolved, is also worth the way in which he has exercised his office and authority. However, this solution can be too rigid. Therefore, the National Assembly is authorised to determine in its decision to dismiss the President of the Republic that, at that time, former President of the Republic belongs to or not certain rights after the end of the term of office. It is understood, but the bill also explicitly states that funds for the exercise of the rights of the former President of the Republic, including contributions to compulsory social security, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that is Article 44. It's a bill of law. This would end, I hope, not too long an explanation of the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, or the most important elements of that law. In the material that you have obtained is, of course, a broader explanation, but I think it was important to highlight the basic elements of this law and because of the public. If you'll excuse me, I would briefly refer to the draft law on the election of the President of the Republic. The Constitution of Serbia, as well as the 1990 Constitution, has not detailed the conditions for the election of the president of the Republic. Both constitutions only prescribed that the President of the Republic be elected by citizens in the direct elections, by a secret vote, which means that the Constitution has established that the President of the Republic does not elect the National Assembly. However, the founder left the law to arrange with which most of the president of the Republic is elected, other conditions for his election and the procedure in which he is elected. The constitutional solution allows conditions for the election of the President of the Republic to be changed by law despite the fact that the powers of the President of the Republic are regulated by the Constitution. The law also prescribes the procedure in which elections are held for the President of the Republic. However, the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic is not the only source of law governing the procedure in which the President of the Republic is elected. The excessive source of law governing the electoral procedure is the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and the Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic only addresses the issues of procedures specific to the election of the President of the Republic. It is therefore clear that the law on the election of the President of the Republic is lex specialis in relation to the Law on the Selection of MPs, which is lex generalis to this area. The President of the Republic is elected for five years. The active and passive voting law for the election of the President of the Republic has been regulated without specific restrictions sometimes prescribed for passive voting law, which is a fairly represented practice in parallel legislation. The right to elect the President of the Republic and to be elected President of the Republic of Serbia has every adult and business able citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has residence in the Republic of Serbia. This is set out in Article 2. It's a bill of law. The freedom to vote in elections for the President of the Republic is further specified by a rule by which no one has the right to prevent or force the voter to vote, to call on him for responsibility because he or she has not voted or to ask him to declare why he did not vote or who he voted for. This is determined by Article 3. It's a bill of law. The election for the President of the Republic is called by the President of the National Assembly, and that rule has been taken from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2, and the form of an act which discusses elections is a decision published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This is set out in Article 4(1). It's a bill of law. There are no doubt three cases foreseen by the Constitution, which hold elections for the President of the Republic. First, before the term of office of the President-in-Office expires, then, at the premature end of the term of office of the President of the Republic and finally, after the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic, in cases where the term of office of the President of the Republic is extended to three months from the end of the war or emergency. Elections for the President of the Republic, in the first instance, shall be discussed 90 days before the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic, so as to be held within the next 60 days of the election date, as set out in Article 4(2). It's a bill of law. If the President stops the term of office before he is elected, the elections for the President of the Republic shall be held no later than three months from the date on which the President of the Republic ceases his term of office, and this shall be determined by Article 120(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and adopted in Article 4(4). Proposal for a law on the election of the President of the Republic. Elections for the President of the Republic shall be held no later than three months from the date on which the war or emergency ceases, that is the third case, as provided for in Article 4(3). It's a bill of law. Finally, the general rule is that from the day of the election to the day of the vote, it cannot be less than 30 days or more than 60 days, and this is provided for in Article 4(5). It's a bill of law. The decision to call elections shall be made by the President of the National Assembly. It must lay down the day of voting for the President of the Republic, that is, the day the elections are held, and the day the deadlines for the conduct of the electoral actions begin. This is determined by Article 5(1). It's a bill of law. The day of the vote cannot be the day of work, or the day of the vote must fall into the day. Finally, in all issues which are not particularly regulated, the law governing elections for the President of the Republic shall be applied accordingly, as set out in Article 8. It's a bill of law. This retains the principle of our legal system under which the law governing the election of President of the Republic of lex specialis is against the law governing the choice of MPs, which is lex generalis. The right to propose candidates for the President of the Republic have political parties registered in the Republic of Serbia on the day on which the decision to call the elections was published in the official vote, then groups of citizens and coalitions of political parties, and that is set out in Article 9. It's a bill of law. The candidate proposal may only be submitted to the Republic Election Commission if it is supported by at least 10,000 voters by its signatures, as set out in Article 10(1). It's a bill of law. The voter can only support one candidate for the President of the Republic by signing. The proposal for candidates shall be submitted to RIK no later than 20 days before the election day, and that is Article 11(1). It's a bill of law. The proposal for a candidate, understood in a broader sense, consists of a submission containing information on the candidate and the name of the applicant and the contribution submitted at the time of submission. The form of the candidate's proposal shall be prescribed by the RIK, and this shall be laid down in Article 11(2). Proposal for a law and Article 12. It's a bill of law. The Republic Election Commission is obliged to prescribe all forms necessary for the submission of the candidate's proposal, to print them out and make them available to the public within three days of the election day, as provided for in Article 12. It's a bill of law. The right to withdraw the candidate's proposal is proposed by a candidate (political party, coalition of political parties or groups of citizens) until the day of laying down the list of candidates for the election of the President of the Republic. The list of candidates for the election of the President of the Republic is a collection of all the important proposals for candidates. The list shall consist of RIK no later than 15 days before the day of the election and shall be published in the 'Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia' the following day after it has been established, as set out in Article 14(1). It's a bill of law. In addition to the indication that the vote for the President of the Republic, the voter for the election of the President of the Republic contains a regular number of candidates set out in the list of candidates for the President of the Republic, the name of the candidate and the name of the applicant and the name of the applicant or the indication that the proposing group is a citizen if the group of citizens does not have a name and explanation to vote for only one candidate by rounding the regular number in front of the name and last name of the candidate. This is set out in Article 15. It's a bill of law. For the President of the Republic, a candidate has been elected who received most of the votes cast by the voters who voted, as set out in Article 18(1). It's a bill of law. If no candidate receives most of the votes cast by voters, the vote shall be repeated within 15 days of the first vote, as provided for in Article 19(1). The bill's proposal, and the day of the re-vote, sets out the RIK decision to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The rule is that two candidates who received the highest number of votes take part in the re-vote. This is set out in Article 20(1). It's a bill of law. Of course, however, more than two candidates may appear in the second round. It's when several of them share first, or second place after the first round of elections. The current Law on the election of the President of the Republic also adopted a regulation amending the rules under which the amendment to the RIK is adopted between the vote and the re-voted vote, taking into account only those decisions which it receives no later than 72 hours before the day of the re-vote, and this is set out in Article 23. It's a bill of law. If the National Assembly votes this bill, the final provisions are foreseen for the law to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I hope that these, conditionally speaking, short opening statements were enough to start a constructive discussion on the draft laws on the agenda today. I call on you to consider any issues that may be controversial, and I hope this work will result in the adoption of these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11729	I thank Minister Markovic. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, first of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then, after you have applied first, and as head of the parliamentary club, and let the MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, be prepared. I am informing the MPs that the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group is MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11730	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Secretary, just for a little while - I reported to the Rules of Procedure since Saturday's session was suspended, so we were prevented from explaining to parliament the consultations we had with you, Mr. President. At these consultations, as a representative of our parliamentary group, I agreed with the idea of the heads of the other parliamentary groups to remove from the agenda this session an initiative to form a polling committee that would consider the role of Delta in our social life, with the agreement that in the next session (if further consultations are needed today, we are ready) we will open the issue in a way that implies agreement with all the heads of parliament groups. In previous consultations, I said that we, as a parliamentary group, are not setting any conditions that would in any way open the possibility of politicising this initiative or partying. I think it's important to say this for the public, so that we don't interpret these conversations in different ways, and so put into the shadow of an initiative that I think is very important and important to our society. There's so much about...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11731	Just let me, Mr. Jovanovic. During today, we will agree on a new meeting of the heads of Parliament, when we will specify the things you have just said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11732	Of course. I agree and thank you for that comment. As far as these two laws are concerned, Mr. Markovic, you've really destroyed us with this 30-minute reading of the referendum and it's very difficult to go back to political life after that boring material that I believe has, and weary you, seeing as how you look. Let's go back to these laws that are very important to us. First, we want both the law on the President and the law on the election of the President of the Republic to be a step forward in the development of our political relations, not a step backwards. We believe that these two laws, unfortunately, are actually that step backwards, precisely because they leave the same doubt and that they are as unarranged as the previous laws. Let's focus on the essence right now. The law on the President of the Republic has for us unacceptable indeterminations and dangers in Article 9, which speaks of incompatibility of functions and conflict of interest, and in Article 18, which speaks of proposing candidates for Prime Minister. Thereafter, a serious problem is Article 15, which regulates the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic, although, of course, that Article 15 is directly derived from Article 118. The Constitution. And then, of course, we need to talk about some other weaknesses of this law, which we have seen and that we are trying to change with amendments. To translate into a political language understood by our citizens and the public. Article 9. The draft law on the President of the Republic speaks of incompatibility of functions and conflict of interest. In attitude 1, the President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity. In Article 9, point (b) states: "The President of the Republic is obliged to comply with all the rules governing conflict of interest in the performance of public functions". The only essential public function for the President of the Republic, which is incompatible with his role, which is incompatible with Article 1. The draft law on the President of the Republic, which also stems from the Constitution, which says that 'the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia', which must have been discussed in this bill, is a party function, a party president or any other party official. I am sure, Mr. Markovic, that it is not an oversight and that this is not a failure, but a conscious intention to preserve such a legal solution practically existing political relations. But the law on the President of the Republic is not written for an individual. It's not written for Boris Tadic, nor for Tomislav Nikolic, it's not written for me or anyone else. If we want the President of the Republic of Serbia to express the state unity of the Republic of Serbia, then we must see in it the President of the Republic, not the President of the Republic and the President of the One Party, and then draw conclusions when the President speaks to us as President of the Republic, and when he is the President of the Party. Do we, by criticizing this member, do we do something that is illegal in political life in the country? Are we in violation of any practice established in other democratic societies? Of course not. There is no normal European country in which a person who also performs as president of a party is in the position of the president or is a party official. In Macedonia, the President of the Republic takes an oath and leaves the party he was a member of until then. There are some rules that have been inherited, but those rules compromise this initiative. The only two presidents of the republic and at the same time the party's president in the recent political history were Franjo Tudjman and Slobodan Milosevic. The third is gone, to Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. If they're democratic role models, it precedes, then I think it's clear enough how bad this bill is. That is why we have proposed to amend the amendment in which it is very precise and clearly said that "the President of the Republic cannot act as head of the political party or any function in the political party". And we expect you to answer this question. Why are we even talking about something like that? For what, then, is a member who tells us about the incompatibility of functions and conflicts of interest if we are unable to state what function is incompatible with the function of the President of the Republic? "The President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity." What public function? What other public function can the President of the Republic do if he can be the party president or party official at the same time? Does that mean he can't be president of the volleyball alliance? We have nothing against it, although we think our politicians are too scratchy about our athletes' successes. So please respond very clearly to this article. I hope that in Parliament there will be support for our initiative that is heading towards a very concrete definition of conflict of interest and incompatibility of the functions of the President of the Republic with another function. The president of the Republic in democratic Serbia should not be both party presidents and we want to change that. The second important question was also resolved in a very bad way and we are sure that it was also conscious. Article 18 - Proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister. "The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers whenever a new government is elected." All right. "The President of the Republic is required to propose to the National Assembly that candidate for Prime Minister who can secure the government's choice." How does the President of the Republic know who can and can't? Based on what? The election is an exact process, and that's where the votes are counted. The political power here, in parliament, is not determined by the size of our ideas, the beauty of speech, the regularity of dictatorship, smart arguments, but physically - who has how many MPs. This is an incredible misunderstanding. She's conscious. It opens up a space for deepening political crises in which our society, as a rule, is located after each election. Why the solution like this? It is known to whom the President of the Republic should be mandated and how that solution comes. Following consultations with representatives of the electoral lists entered the parliament, the President of the Republic gives a mandate to the candidate who assures him that he has the parliamentary majority necessary to form the government by attaching the signatures of 126 MPs. If there is no guarantee, the President of the Republic must give a mandate to a representative of the strongest electoral list. Why does it matter? Because this procedure will never repeat the agony we had after the last elections. Ninety days of drowsiness, so that at midnight on the 90th day, what we knew would happen on the first day. That is why we insist on amending this article on 18th and on very precise defining the president's behaviour after the parliamentary elections. Because this is how we leave the President of the Republic the right to assess to whom he will give his mandate and whether he will give it to anyone at all. It's a derrogation of our public, of all the participants in the election. The president's in charge here. He's not a monarch. He doesn't draw that kind of power of his presidential function. He's here administering and giving a mandate to whoever he's convinced he'll be able to form a government. He cannot give a mandate to the one he expects to form a government of his taste and that should change. We have proposed an amendment and I expect that parliament will also support the initiative. Since the procedure lasts 90 days, we have said that the first 45 days of the president should consider giving a mandate to that candidate for Prime Minister who has documentedly proved to him that he has 126 MPs in support. If there are no candidates who meet the criteria within 45 days, then the mandate must be given to the representative of the strongest parliamentary group, the strongest electoral lists, and let a representative of the strongest electoral list take responsibility for forming the government. These are procedures and it is very important to define procedures, especially given the experience that we, as a society, have been going through. If these two issues were seen as a criticism of the President of the Republic and a threat to its autonomy, Article 15. The resolution actually speaks of this incredible attitude towards the President of the Republic elected by the citizens. Article 15 shall be governed by the decision of the President of the Republic. You've done well with the Constitution, in such a way that there's no such example anywhere in the world. The president of the country, elected by citizens, is being replaced by parliament. In which country of the world is such a thing possible? And here, you define the procedure for resolution. So two-thirds of the parliament will be replaced by the President of the Republic. Does that mean we can't have the President of the Republic unless he's a representative of some party? What if we get a non-partisan personality for the President of the Republic because the citizens wanted it, and the parliamentary parties don't like it, and then they take it off? It will be decided here by 176 or 180 MPs. They have the same weight as two or three million citizens in the election. You have an example of Romania. Parliament went into conflict with the president, launched an initiative to resolve it, replaced it in parliament, but did not receive citizens' support for such a thing in the referendum. We insist on clear relations. The President of the Republic has a basis for supporting citizens and this support cannot challenge parliament. That is why we are starting, both before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and here, in the context of this debate, two initiatives - the amendment of the Constitution in Article 118 in the established procedure and, on the other hand, the adoption of our amendment that makes it impossible for Article 118 to apply. The constitution in this form, which practically puts itself in the hands of the President of the Republic. All right, so if parliament chooses him, then let parliament replace him. If he's elected by the citizens, they're the only ones who can replace him. The issue of jurisdiction of the President of the Republic is also important: 'The powers of the President of the Republic are laid down by the Constitution. The Constitution of a specified jurisdiction of the President of the Republic may be developed by law or other regulation.' Only by law can they work themselves out. What are the other regulations laying down certain powers of the President of the Republic? I remember what the problem was when a representative of the opposition party was elected president. The stock market went down, it was the end of the world. For us, it was no surprise, I just don't know why it was a surprise for today's parliamentary majority, because she and that opposition party so often ran a single policy. Now imagine a miracle: that such a person might win the presidential election, which you can't make peace with, and then she would start ignoring the law and regulate her responsibilities and obligations to some sublaws, her decisions, her apparitions, and whatnot. Only by law can they be changed by the Constitution of a particular jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. Since there are so many gaps, I have to ask Mr. Markovic who wrote this law. When we come to the subject of the election of the President of the Republic, then we will see that this law has been written by someone who has certainly never participated in the elections, because anyone who has participated at least once in the elections knows how to distinguish between the re-election and the second election round. You in a series of members are practically violating something called political reason by finding that unless the president has been elected after the vote, a re-election will be carried out. A second election round will not be held. The second round goes to two first-placed candidates, and the president will be elected by the one who received more votes. The political language used in this law is the political language of a person who has nothing to do with politics and has never participated in the elections. And that, please, you have to change. Because if we adopt this law in that form, then in Serbia we will only have the first round of elections all the time. There is a big difference between the re-vote and the second election round. The re-election means re-gathering the signature, pointing out the list, campaigning, as it is known how the election procedure of the President of the Republic is started. It's not the re-election, it's the second round of the election. Most of the questions are not controversial, but you must also very precisely formulate them. If we don't have a first-round censorship, okay, in case no one has received most of the citizens participating in the elections, then the vote in the second-round is organised. A very important question is also the right of the spouse of the President of the Republic. The issue is open with this law, but it is also not resolved in a clear way. "The spouse of the President of the Republic who is in a working relationship has the right to absent from work while fulfilling the protocol and other social obligations." We have no objection that the spouse of the President or of the President of the Republic (why not) has the right to do so, but in a situation where he fulfils the protocol obligations. The concept of other social obligations is unclear. What are these other social obligations? They can be humanitarian, but they can't be parties; they can be cultural, but they can't be private fashion shows; they can be sports; but then we have to define it or say that the spouse of the president or president of the Republic who's in working relationships has the right to be absent from work while performing protocol obligations and put an end to it. This question of "other social obligations" is so broad and endangers the institution of the President of the Republic and disabling his spouse as such. I didn't notice anyone looking for it, we don't have an example of someone calling for this right. If we want to introduce this right now in our political practice, then we must precisely, clearly and concretely define it, so that we can say what other social obligations are -- other social obligations of public importance -- and then that's acceptable to us. Why bring a law that is unclear, confusing and which then leaves room for political criticism and manipulation? To get back to these two essential problems. I expect you to accept these two amendments, so that we no longer play those political hideouts in which we should conclude when the president speaks to us as president of the party and when as president of the Republic. The President's choice of a certain political force in society obliges him, as president of the Republic, to respect the fact that he must also represent those who were against him. I can agree with Mr. Nikolic in anything in our political life, but the moment he becomes President of the Republic, I will expect him to withdraw from the post of president of his party. If Boris Tadic is the president of the Republic, he has our absolute respect, but if he is also party president, then he is a divided political figure for us. It's not fair to him or to this society, and we're willing to do that ourselves. So the President of the Republic should forget his party functions and act the way the presidents behave in reasonable countries. Let him freeze his membership, let him stop acting partyically. He cannot participate in his party's decision-making and must pay particular attention that he must not compromise and endanger the president's institution with this over-emphasised party influence. We're looking for understanding here, and we're looking for an understanding to define the behaviour of the President of the Republic after the elections, in the process of forming a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11733	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11734	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Member 27. Rules of Procedure. The powers and obligations of Parliament's president are, among other things, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the previous session, the President of the National Assembly violated flagrantly and even derrogated the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly with some interpretation that none of the known interpretations of the legal norm can be as he interpreted it. Neither the language nor the logical, neither the grammatical, or the objective, nor the notional interpretation can be eliminated and the provisions of Articles 225 and 226 can be derivated. Parliament's president explained this by more effective work by parliament and by challenging parliamentary issues at the end of each session. Today we heard that the president of parliament said that what was happening Friday was a victory for parliamentaryism. That's not true. It was the twilight of parliamentaryism. Not a triumph, but a debacle, not a victory, but a defeat. Why? Because MPs are elected national representatives and because parliamentary issues are actually the voice of the people, the questions of the citizens, the questions of the people. When that is the case and when we consider the provision of Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the government is responsible for Parliament's policy-making of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other acts and for the work of the governing body, was then an elemental order and elemental obligation, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to have the entire government here, with the exception of those ministers who may have some travel and some urgent obligations. That didn't happen. At the beginning of the session were a dozen ministers, in the government with 25 members including the president, vice president and a portfolio-free minister. It was already an insult to parliament, an insult to citizens who wanted to ask questions. Not demeaning any minister, there were no ministers here, by definition, who were headed by the most important resolutions, which, by definition, the MPs should again ask the most questions, defence ministers, internal affairs, foreign affairs, justice, economy -- no one was there. There were about an hour or so, and then two or three, including Mr Markovic, and in the end there was only Bozidar Djelic, who was crying and crying like Kalimer. He's lying and lurking trying to defend the undefense. I say responsibly and, livingly were and saw, there will never be a point on the agenda again. Why? Because they spent their time barefooting the thorn, bending their tails and running away. So it is no triumph of parliamentaryism. It was a colorful lie and I ask the President of the Assembly to respect the Rules of Procedure in the future, and we will continue with the practice allowed by this Rules of Procedure, which is, among other things, to call on the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11735	I thank the People's MP Dr. Vladan Batic. The SRS parliamentary group president, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11736	I'd like to answer to Mr. Jovanovic right away. As a proven Democrats, I will definitely resign immediately as deputy president of the SRS because I consider it incompatible with the duties of the President of the Republic and the handling of the political party as directly injured by Article 111. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that "the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". So I believe that the provision on the incompatibility of public office with the duties of the President of the Republic does not constitute a provision that we could interpret, for example, Boris Tadic cannot be the president of the DS, but, if we want the President of the Republic to express state unity, he cannot lead one political party. We are not united with this political party, nor will we ever be. That means that right now, by choosing the post of DS President, he says: I do not want to be in unity with parties that are not in the coalition with DS, say at the republican level. It's a violation of the Constitution, and that's why I would draw Mr. Markovic's attention. I know that he and his co-worker who are late for the sessions received this bill in the final text very late, that they even got what Mr. Markovic read, which is why he laughs - and he knows that he does the courier's function here. This law wasn't written by Mr. Markovic, he wouldn't write it this bad. I know his friends who know how to write this better if he doesn't already know. So, the bill on the President of the Republic refers to Boris Tadic, partly as the one who is now performing that function, and is much more important to him than the part about the former President of the Republic, which will most likely concern him since February, as I see it and how things are developing. So much better worked out what's going on with the former president than what's actually going to happen to the President of the Republic. This is, in fact, the law on the former president of the Republic. It is not true, Mr. Markovic, that one person can only be elected twice as President of the Republic. The constitutional law for Boris Tadic predicted that he could be elected three times, at his personal request, that his choice before the constitution was passed would not count in two elections under the new constitution. So he is the only man in Serbia who can be elected three times, according to his will -- Mr. Boris Tadic. However, we Serbian radicals have been very happy to accept that provision since we are convinced that, not only Boris Tadic, in this kind of Serbia, with this many turmoils and fractures, no one can count on being elected even twice, but more than twice indeed no one. So many people in office are falling popularity because of the web of many circumstances, that the President of the Republic certainly cannot count on him to be elected more times, so that the Constitution may not have had to limit it, but it is democratic. The President of the Republic is designed under the new Constitution as a man who commands the Army, leads the defense. You did not honor us with the laws of the Army and the defense, so you did not predict in the President's law how he commands the military and how he does the defence work, which is the lack of law. I don't care how many days off his wife's entitled to. I don't think the wife of the President of the Republic can work. It must be by his side, day and night, I stress: day and night, and not to determine how many days she will have the right to take the days off - women of the President of the Republic. Now, this particular employer of hers is going to rebel and say, "How long have you had that reception there, could you make it right in time to get back to work or not?" Or perhaps its receipts are very important to the president of the Republic, who is also the president of the DS, which means that it has unlimited sources of funding based on the Democratic Party's chairmanship. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, which you said was related to the law on the President of the Republic, which I cannot possibly understand, but you can say anything to unify the debate, and you would do anything just to keep the debate going as short as possible, because this is a law that is absolutely unarranged, a law that allows for various manipulations. As you came to power, you predicted that the citizens of Serbia, the new Constitution absolutely confirmed it, had the right to vote abroad as well. Practically, you did not allow the citizens of Serbia to do so. You are aware of how little influence you have on people who have full information about what is happening in Serbia. You're aware how few people who are informed would vote for you and you're making it impossible for them to vote. With the secret vote provided for by the Constitution, you put a personal vote into the law. I don't know who it is that goes past the Constitution with one bill of law. And what does "personal vote" mean? And the man who circled, put it in the envelope, voted personally. A man who identifies the electoral commission in a way that is envisaged, so he votes through, say, the world's networks, also voted secretly and personally. If by personal vote you mean he has to show up at the polling station, then you're preventing people who don't have a polling station within reasonable distance from voting at all. What's a reasonable proximity? It's up to a mile or two in Serbia. You have a distance of over 1,000 kilometers abroad, over 2,000 kilometers, 5,000 kilometers should go to vote. Of course, that man won't be able to vote. All that you promised them by fighting the former regime, all that you promised them in the negotiations while you formed the first government, you absolutely trampled and you can't count on the voices of people who make big revenues to Serbia, so they have the right to decide who will be in power in Serbia, and then on that people -- if I can't, I won't give it to anyone else. Every citizen of Serbia should be allowed to vote and that should not be tied to the residence, because the constitution says a Serbian citizen is voting, not one who has a residence. The question arises, "What is the abode? What is the abode?" And how will you determine whether anyone has a place of residence or not? Finally put all citizens of Serbia in one central voter list, to see for once in your life that there is one central voter list. We don't care if he has a place or not, he has the right to vote, he's a citizen, he has the right to decide his fate and the fate of all of us. With regard to the remarks that we have already made with written amendments, many things have been left undefined. You love it so much, that's how it suits you. You know your dossing will continue for a very long time. You assume that after that strain, there will always be some sort of solution and you leave yourself unlimited opportunities for the abuse and strangulation of Serbia. We have shown you the amendments that everything can be regulated according to the needs of Serbian citizens. You're in college, of course. When you explained to us here what the government is, what the new government is, you told everyone it was a new government. It's based on Article 18, and you forgot, in Article 22, you have the term government and the new government again. So it's not just the term of the new government. When you have inserted a new government into article 18, consider whether all your governments are there, as Article 22 mentions both some government and a new government. So it's not consistent with the law. What did we predict? After the final parliamentary elections, the President of the Republic expects a majority vote in parliament to address him for 15 days. This man comes and says, "Here you go, I'm submitting 126 signatures of elected MPs, we want you to entrust us with the mandate for the government's composition." The president has to entrust his mandate. At the end of the 15th day, the president calls on the representative of the strongest parliamentary group and says to him: here is the opportunity to provide you with the majority necessary for the government's vote, you have seven days. On the seventh day, he calls on the representative of the second parliamentary group. When he runs out of seven days, the president disbands the National Assembly. No agony, no blackmail, no pressure. Serbia knows that it has not won a new government, politicians have become fluent, realize that playing with the people is not there. In that case, you can, only 40 per cent of voters went to the polls again, and politicians would understand that they do not play with popular will. Now, according to these laws, the toy continues on. You've been cheating on the old law, and you've just inserted some provisions on the former president. You yourself are aware that in 2001, writing about the former president, you were referring to Slobodan Milosevic and completely denied him all rights. Look, in this law, you say that the former president of the Republic has the right to diplomatic and consular assistance whenever he stays abroad. So Petar Petrovic, Milisav Milosavljevic, does not have the right to diplomatic and consular assistance abroad, but must be the former president of Serbia in order to have the right to diplomatic and consular assistance. Well, every Serbian citizen abroad has an imperative right to diplomatic-consular assistance. Why do you single out this right only for the former president of Serbia? Of course, these laws provide an opportunity to hold elections and I do not dispute it. There will, of course, be great dilemmas, there will be doubts, this is a lex specialis based on the General Law on selecting Members of the People. I wish we had chosen the President of the Republic in Parliament. I'm still up for it, and I'm saying it's the best possible solution. How do you assess the political situation? When you are strong enough to win individual elections, you have no idea that you are putting elections into parliament. When the SRS reaches you and outruns you, where you have been overcome, you transfer the elections to parliament, counting that you can always be gathered enough to outvote the strongest political party. When I convinced you that the presidents of the municipalities and mayors, the amendments to the laws that you have submitted yourself, should be elected by local parliaments, you were absolutely against it, counting that your Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, and you don't care about those smaller places that receive funds on the spoon. Now the situation has changed. Now we are looking for a mayoral election, and you say: no, we will have a new law, and under this new law, the mayor of Belgrade will most likely be left to parliament. I'm glad you're holding on to the provision that the president is elected in the direct elections. I didn't influence that too much when the law was written, to be changed, I was convinced that enough time would pass from the day of the law's entry into force to the elections and that the power of the SRS candidate would be strong enough to defeat the direct representative of the entire DOS in the elections. Please have one representative, so that the Serbian government points out one candidate. Whether he will be from DS, DSS, G17 plus, NS, Unique Serbia -- I don't care at all, but I ask you to take the political scene seriously. This is what we have proposed for you with an amendment that provides for 50,000 citizens to support the candidacy for the President of the Republic with their signatures. Don't make up any more artificial candidates who won't even win the number of votes that are at least equal to the number of signatures that supported the candidacy. To measure ourselves at last, you who are DOS and us who are different Serbia. Because Serbia has only two political times: one that you think you are continuing to lead, which is very bad, both by the basic principles and by the people who are on that water road, and the other, whom we want to lead, which is very good and predicts that Serbia is led by very good people on that path. That is why I would like us to measure our strength in the presidential elections, and immediately thereafter in parliamentary elections. This time Serbia, in which NATO's entry is imperative, entry into the European Union, and second time Serbia, where the imperative of co-operation with friends in the world, the development and recovery of Serbia, the development of democracy -- you haven't learned anything in these seven years in power -- these two must finally stand up and face each other. Do not use small political parties to deal with the SRS. You're on your own. One on one, which your DS president would say, on the line. So, we invite you. Of course, we won't vote for these laws. There's enough of you to vote every senseless law. We will wait in peace for you to vote these laws. I think the President of the Assembly will most likely call the elections even if he gets caught up in the adoption of these laws, because he doesn't even count on the military law and defense, the Security Service Act, and he's going to question the election for the President of the Republic. So we will certainly have an opponent in these elections if the circumstances in Serbia allow the vote to be held. We're not afraid of choices. We are embarrassed that Mr. Boris Tadic did not swear an oath to the new constitution ten months after the constitution was declared. We don't feel it, we don't see it as the President of the Republic after he hasn't sworn an oath to the Constitution. And that's our card. He was not allowed to take the oath because it undertakes to defend Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. And that's the only reason we didn't have such a solemn act, which he would enjoy. That's where the guard would be laid out, the guy to the guy, the hero to the hero; the traffic station -- it's known that the Chade Pass would be fully secured. He'd enjoy it. But it needs heroic, brave, determined and wise to lead Serbia. And wisely, and wisdom is not what you do now, you will see it in elections. Some of you started to walk down the street, so, since the people don't know them, they experience when they go with some radical to find out what the people think. So we're going to take part in the debate, we're going to propose amendments, we're going to defend each amendment individually, each of them is acceptable, and every improvement in the law, the definition of the law, and then, when the law is passed, we expect you to take further steps. Once again, Serbia is in two political blocks -- one you are in power, the other we are in opposition. That's what I count on the blocks, and I call on the gentlemen of the party Cedomir Jovanovic not to look forward to what I said. I don't count you in a block, so I don't put you next to us. You'd rather be here, even leading these suckers until they knew what you were doing to them. We are fully ready for you to fight, we are fully prepared to lead Serbia. We would be ashamed to give our president the opportunity to open an embassy in each Serbian city. I don't see here, in law, that you at least verified these embassies of the Serbian president throughout Serbia, this so-called. People's offices. The president's security is being carried out by the police, the military and other services. Do you know that the army and the police are having a little fight over the security of the President of the Republic? Do you know that? You must know who's providing it. They can't: they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they I want security to be formed, but I can't do both. The president now has confidence in the military, and as Kostunica heads the police, the president has no confidence in police services, which provide Serbian citizens. So, eight million of us are being provided by the police -- we're not safe, and he's one, he's being provided by the Army -- he's safe. Now, let the army go out on the street and let them provide citizens of Serbia because if the president has confidence that the military best provides Serbia, I would also like the citizens of Serbia, public order and peace, security and security of traffic to be provided by the military. What kind of dualism is that between the military and the police? Of course, you're telling the former president that his service will form a new president, he'll even give him all his associates. Well, where's that? The most common are opposing people, from different political options. Then what do you need the right of the former president to do some sort of activity? He doesn't have the right to do business and he's done it. No, we'll let him do business, but our people will lead him. And, of course, this resolution of the President of the Republic just because - and here I warn some of them not to think that the Assembly can do it on its own, not-just because it violated the Constitution. But who's going to decide now if he's hurt the Constitution? The constitutional court that formed DS and DSS, the party constitutional court. Will the President of the Republic please? He won't. Will he say that he has violated the Constitution, and even at the slightest sign, a hint that he has violated the Constitution? Yeah, he'll say. (The Chairman: the bell warns on time) I end, I apologize. And then it will depend on the two-thirds majority whether the man chosen by the people will be relieved. Think carefully. This law isn't meant for people who are going to lose the election and it's a great danger to you. We have nothing to lose, Serbia will lose. If we don't win the election, Serbia will lose. Yes, yes, that's absolutely true because Serbia can't win with you anymore, there's no one left. Look, if it wasn't for that Azerbaijani and it wasn't for those balls in the 16th, you wouldn't have a goal to give 15 minutes. You can't do that. You are not created, you are not born, you are not imagined, you are not taught to win. You are only to fulfill, and when you fulfill your orders you cannot win. So the law is written for those who think they'll win most of it. I am now telling you that the President of the Republic of Serbia's radical will not benefit many provisions, many of the rights of this law. Load him with all obligations, but the rights you have provided for your president do not foresee for the president of the SRS at all - he does not need it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11737	I thank MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. The word is from MP Vlatko Ratkovic, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11738	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I see no reason for either epic or lyrical tirads and canonnadas when it comes to, in essence, one technical law. With 70% of their provisions, both of these laws represent certain technical solutions. These laws do not speak of the powers of the President of the Republic, of his mandate, of the termination of the term of office because all these provisions are contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which should be the first place for us Members of Parliament and fetishes and relics, and to come from that. The law on the President of the Republic and the law on the election of the President of the Republic come from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Again, most of the provisions of these two laws constitute a work-up on the basis of an article. 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says "The President of the Republic is governed by the law". I will remind that, by definition, Serbia is a state-run republic, headed by the president, so that is parliamentary democracy. And I will remind once again of the principle of division of power: legislative, executive and judicial. Our Constitution, an etemological constitution according to some law theorists, and the etemological constitution means the dam and comes from the words of the constitution (the dam), restricts the rights of certain types of government, legislative, executive and judicial, and their balance that must exist and, on the other hand, restricts power in relation to the citizens of the Republic. The sovereignty, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, belongs to citizens and the state authority draws its legitimacy and legality from the sovereignty of citizens. Of all three branches of government, meaning legislative, executive and judicial, the President of the Republic is the part of the government that draws its legitimacy most directly from citizens because it is elected directly from citizens. So, to a greater extent than the MPs, since MPs are elected from a list of political parties, especially this second part of the execution, or another part of the executive government called the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, in a system of division, the President of the Republic belongs to the executive authority, although he is to some extent consummating and part of the judicial authority, since he is authorised to adopt an act of pardon. It has certain authority over the formation of the Constitutional Court, it has certain powers in relation to the declaration of the law and, in a certain way, the President of the Republic, although it is part of the executive authority, consumes and sublimates and part of these two executive authorities. Both of these laws elaborate part of the constitutional provisions in two segments -- where the Constitution explicitly allows it, as well as where the nature of functions and competences and the mandate of the President of the Republic allows it. In this brief statement, I'm just going to point out that both of these laws are good. The DS will support this, we will actively participate in the debate both in principle and in amendments, given that a large number of amendments have been submitted to this law by opposition political parties in this parliament. We'll consider them, see if and to what extent we support certain amendments. If they go to improve the text of this bill, the DS will, as so far, accept the amendments. I will also point out that the position of the President of the Republic in the legislation is regulated and regulated by a certain area, so-called "the President of the Republic". sectoral laws, and this law, above all the law on the election of the President of the Republic, represents lex specialis in relation to lex generalis, which is the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliament, whose provisions are applied in all those areas which are not regulated by this draft law. The position of the President of the Republic, his jurisdiction, therefore, defines the Constitution and I expect the MPs not to be apostrophe in the debate and not to enter into an analysis of the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic because they are defined by the Constitution. What I think will be of quality is the debate on the position of the President of the Republic after the end of the term of office, the special rights, the acts adopted by the President of the Republic, the relationship of the President of the Republic, in this respect, towards the National Assembly, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I expect and hope that the debate on these two technical but important laws will be of paramount importance. In the course of the debate, DS MPs will, in principle and by amendments, actively participate in the debate on these laws. I would like to express my opinion that we have two quality laws that will allow the vote to be called for by the President of the Republic of Serbia, not wanting to politicise this matter, although my predecessors, I must say, have used their exposure primarily for political purposes. The DS is the last person who would be afraid or would be working on postponing the presidential election. We look forward to the presidential elections, the first thing that is a constitutional obligation, and secondly, to being convinced of Boris Tadic's victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11739	I thank MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the authorised representative of the DS. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, appeared. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11740	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm intervened by article. 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, compared to the previous presentation of counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic. When I speak in the principle debate on the proposals of these two laws, then I will comment on his observation that these are just technical laws, which is just amazing. Then we hear a series of praises about the text of these laws, which, of course, is the right of the MP. He has the right to think that all these bad solutions are good solutions, it has the right to support the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it certainly is not the basis of my reporting. But it's very interesting how a colleague tried to, first of all, draw attention to the way these bill proposals before him were spoken by the president of the SRS and LDP parliamentary groups, and then said that his, as he says, were "predicators", although I never understood that because Tomislav Nikolic was never your predecessor in any way, you should have said -- colleagues, the heads of Parliament clubs who spoke before me, but it's very complicated for you. So then he said that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic had discussed these two draft laws, as he said, turned to political issues, and then talked about their parties, I don't know in which way all about politics and then he, poor, said naively: but DS is not afraid of choice because he knows he will win Boris Tadic, etc., which is of course his right, but it is hypocritical. Mr. Ratkovic, there's no reason to smile. I wouldn't mind you all talking here for 20 minutes about expecting your candidate to win the next election, because the SRS MPs will also say that about their candidate. Of course, we won't spend all our time on it, but it's a fact that the whole of Serbia knows. But to draw attention to how someone else is talking about it, and then you end your discussion exactly that way, at least it's hypocritical and don't let yourself do it. Make sure when you talk about someone else, and someone else can always say a lot about you. I don't mean personally, I mean your party and your already announced presidential candidate. We'll talk about it today during this debate. My intervention was, therefore, only that you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly by your conduct because you tried to deceive the public of Serbia, people who have not possibly followed Mr Tomislav Nikolic's exposure and before him Cedomir Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11741	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The word has been made by Parliament MP Balint Pastor, head of the Group of Minorities. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11742	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it strange, or incomprehensible, why Mr. Minister is not in the O.R. at least when the heads of Parliament's clubs, or groups, speak, to know what the position of certain parliamentary groups is about these two laws, but that is how it is. The MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians view these two draft laws as a prerequisite for calling presidential elections and as a task of the National Assembly that we must carry out by the end of the year because, if we want to respect the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, then elections for the President of the Republic must be called by 31 December and six laws must be passed before the election is called. I am also sorry that the president of the National Assembly is not in the O.R. because I would like to ask him when he will call the presidential elections, when he will begin to think it is important that the opposition also knows when they will be called and when the presidential elections will be held, because we do not know whether these elections will be held in January, February, March next year, we do not know whether the ruling coalition wants to respect the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, we do not know whether the president of the National Assembly will call the elections and in case these six laws are not passed in the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that, in addition to the law on the President of the Republic and the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic, the National Assembly must pass a law on defence, the Law on the Army, the Law on Foreign Affairs, the Security Service Act. Given the pace of work of the National Assembly since 14 February, I would like to express my doubts that these laws will be passed by the end of the year. I would like to get an answer from the president of the National Assembly whether he will call the elections in case these laws are not passed. Of course, I do not consider these bill proposals to be technical laws, or technical proposals. These are laws that must exist in our legal system for calling presidential elections and holding presidential elections. I would also like to ask the president of the National Assembly whether, in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, local elections and elections for the AP Vojvodina Assembly will be called by the end of the year because no one has spoken of these elections in this assembly or in the public for weeks. It is not clear to me why it is so and why the president of the National Assembly feels that he can break the Constitution and the constitutional law so smoothly. As for these two draft laws, on the President of the Republic and on elections for the President of the Republic, I wouldn't want to go into any details. These laws are what they are, or suggestions are what they are. Of course, we have nothing against certain rights and privileges of the President of the Republic. This is so regulated in other countries, both in the environment and in the countries of the European Union. I think it would be demagogue for us to challenge certain rights of the President of the Republic here. I also want to point out from this place the fact that we have been talking about for several weeks in the Assembly and elsewhere, that the parties of the Vojvodina Hungarians will have a presidential candidate in the presidential elections whenever they are called and whenever they are held. Four parties of the duchy Hungarians will have a presidential candidate. I would like to inform you that four days ago in Zrenjanin, the heads of the parties of the duchy Hungarians met and agreed that we would definitely have a presidential candidate, to count on the support of the duchy Hungarians, to support members of other national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia, but we also count on the support of all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the Hungarians will have their presidential candidate is that in the last seven years, and even before, as one man, we have always stood behind the presidential candidate so-called. a democratic bloc. The candidate always said nice things and promised to work in the interests of the national minorities and in the interest of the duchy Hungarians, but in the end, after the elections, he always forgot about the Hungarian votes, the votes of the national minorities, and didn't think he should work in the interest of improving the position of national minorities and also of the duchy Hungarians. Because of this fact, the reality is that the four biggest problems of the duchy Hungarians and today are unresolved. This is already mentioned privatisation of local media broadcasting the programme in the languages of national minorities. We were able to suspend the privatisation now, we will see how this will take place by the end of the year, whether it will finally be on the agenda of our bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, but the problem has been resolved today and today. Another problem that has not been solved is the adoption of legislation on the election and competences of national councils, which are also a constitutional category, which have been formed by 14 national minorities in the Republic of Serbia and for years there has been no will in the Assembly and the Government to pass this special law that is of paramount importance to members of national minorities. The third problem is that the state does not want the republican budget to finance minority institutions, the institutions of the duchy Hungarians. From this place I also mentioned the National Theatre in Subotica, the theatre in Novi Sad, the publishing house "Forum", the Institute of Culture of the Duchy Hungarians and the Alliance for Culture of the Vojvodina Hungarians. These institutions are financed exclusively from the province budget and from the budget of our country of origin, but are not financed from the Republic's budget. The fourth problem is that there are virtually no members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, police, customs authorities, prosecutors and courts, no members of the Hungarian national community, and there is certainly no reason for that to be the case that the duchy Hungarians do not have candidates who could and could perform these significant functions. So, because these problems are not solved, which is neither the current President, Mr Boris Tadic, has done much to solve these problems, we, the four parties of the duchy Hungarians together, are going to run for someone in the presidential elections. Now there are talks about the candidate's personality, but, once again, I think it would be good, and our right as opposition MPs, to know when Mr Oliver Dulic will call the elections and when these elections will take place. Finally, I would like to point out that among the amendments we saw the amendment of the SRS, a colleague of Aleksandar Martinovic, who proposed that 50,000 signatures of support be required in the presidential elections instead of 10,000. It is, of course, the right of the SRS to suggest so. That's legal, of course. From the point of view of the SRS, it's safe and legitimate. But I would like to say that this solution prevents fewer parties from running for their candidate in the presidential election. The alarming thing is that according to congregation towers, the DS is willing to support this amendment. Since Mr. Minister is not here, I would like to ask Mrs. Nada Kolundzija or Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, as the authorised DS representative at this point in the agenda: is it true that the DS is considering supporting this SRS amendment, which would result in the need of 50,000 signatures in the presidential elections instead of 10,000? Once again, I would like to underline that this solution is, of course, legal, but we think it is not legitimate and it is not democratic because it would make it impossible for the fewer parties and groups of the population to run for office in the presidential elections. I would like to stress that the duchy Hungarians certainly cannot collect 50,000 signatures of support. We can raise 10,000, as the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians collected in January before the parliamentary elections. Regardless of the fact that, in accordance with RIK's opinion, there were enough and 3,000 signatures for minority parties, we also provided 10,000 signatures in January for the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians. So, I would like to ask the DS representative: is it true that they, by voting for the SRS amendment, want to eliminate fewer parties and minority communities from the election race for the President of the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11743	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Balint Pastor, head of the Group of Minorities. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on November 23rd, we received some answers to the parliamentary questions, and I, looking at it earlier, was shocked by the answer signed by Bozidar Djelic, which refers to the parliamentary question of our colleague, Amjad Migati, where Mr Djelic, presented the unseen lies. And that is why Mr Dulic prevented us from having another one, or one of the reasons why we do not have what Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, Article 1st, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure, and these are parliamentary questions. In fact, Mr. Amjad Migati is -- he's likely to intervene, too, but I simply couldn't resist without reacting immediately when I saw this -- asking a question about the communication of our representatives in the United Nations, and his question specifically referred to whether one of our representatives had come to mind once in the UN reminding that our president, president of the SRS, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, had been in The Hague for five years without his trial. Imagine this lie from the answer. "As is known," among other things, not to read everything, "representatives of the Republic of Serbia regularly visit all indictees in the tribunal's detention unit, including Vojislav Seselj. The visits to Vojislav Seselj and the efforts to help him were intense especially during his hunger strike.' So this is an incredible lie. First, because they don't visit him, and secondly, Vojislav Seselj would never allow one of these traitorous thugs who wrote him the indictment and placed him in The Hague. You further say, "Sam Vojislav Seselj has never asked the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to highlight the length of the proceedings in his case as a special objection to the tribunal's authorities." This is just amazing. Why would Vojislav Seselj ask whom, Tadic and Kostunica? Of course he doesn't think about it, but don't lie and don't deceive Serbian citizens. You don't know now what you're going to do after that extraordinary and fantastic address by Professor Vojislav Seselj, and now you'd die of the pain that the people have heard only part of what Vojislav Seselj is going to say further, in the course of the trial, since 11 December, when the trial continues. Then you lie that the state authorities visit Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Don't humiliate Vojislav Seselj. He would never allow Tadic or Kostunica to visit him. He knows that they are evil for this people and we here, in his name, repeat it daily. And, stop lying anymore, enough of you, really. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11745	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11746	I'm reporting for an officer. 198, 199 and 200. You know, on Friday, Djelic lied so disgustingly that he said he didn't, and you know that he said that Mr. Putin supported Tadic, and then he said, "I didn't say that." This answer, which he sent to me on behalf of the government, not only is it a lie, but I seek his responsibility, Djelic, who signed it. Because, first of all, he lies that representatives of the Serbian government regularly visited Vojislav Seselj. You all know that's a lie. Even when he had a hunger strike, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted so lightly until there was no international response, so will-not etc. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr Vojislav Seselj should not ask his country for anything, but the state should ensure his right to the Constitution of Serbia. He's supposed to defend his human rights, his procedural rights, and she's never done that. Because if there was a government, if there were some brave boys, such as neighbouring Croatia, as soon as they didn't like something in The Hague, they would immediately threaten. Do you remember that charge of 30 and the change of Croatians to be filed by Carla del Ponte? The senator said: we have no idea to accept it, we will suspend any co-operation with The Hague tribunal. And then what was Carla del Ponte doing? She kept her mouth shut and kept her mouth shut. When and where is it placed on the agenda of the General Assembly on the issue of violations of the human and procedural rights of indictees of Serbian origin in The Hague? Never. Why? Because they don't have the guts. Because they're running after Carla del Ponte's skirt, because she's putting them in Serbia now, she's taking them off. I don't want to say names, you know them. The worst part is it's our so-called. A war crimes prosecutor at the Special Court under the authority of the U.S. Embassy and their legal advisor. Serbia's government has no authority whatsoever. They're just lying to us, and that's why they give such a stupid and false and humiliating answer. That's why I'm asking again for Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to initiate the responsibility of the vice president who gave a false answer, who everyone knows is a lie. I'm entitled to five minutes, Vice President?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11747	No, you're entitled to three minutes and you've already used them. Don't, or finish or call again. Three minutes. I'd love to give you ten, but... Come on, you pick up the word again. You don't have a right, you're welcome, so come back. Well, not now. People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, who also advertised the Rules of Procedure, spoke. I ask Mrs. Radet to explain whether she has rights or not later. I trust Veronica Radetti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is indeed an extremely embarrassing response given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This shows not only how you treat the indictees before The Hague tribunal, but it shows the relationship and concern of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for each of its citizens. Not only is it obvious that it is a lie, because it is an absolute lie that the representatives of the state regularly visit all of The Hague prisoners, and the biggest of all lies is that the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regularly visit Dr Vojislav Seselj and that they, in particular, must have visited him intensively during his four-week hunger strike. The scum representing the Republic of Serbia in The Hague would never have received it, and when I say bad, I mean Radoslav Stojadinovic, who in the most cruel way could have offended not only the state and not only...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11749	Don't say those words, please. Don't, Nemania, you're a wonderful young man. Don't use words like that. At least don't make trouble for me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11750	Mr. Carrot, it's an honor to you, but there's really no other expression for that man. So, in the most harshest way possible, he spoke not only of the accused but also of the citizens of Serbia and, simply, there is no other expression for him. Look, here in this sentence is the relationship of the government of the Republic of Serbia and you can see how they are experiencing this partnership with The Hague tribunal. The partnership is that as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia are convicted and that none of them are, therefore, not by chance to be released. Look what the government of the Republic of Serbia says, this is Bozidar Djelic's signature. He says, "In the context of the debate, the main accent in our representative's speech was the requirement to transfer as many cases as possible to domestic courts, as well as to request that the defendants support sentences in the states of which they are nationals." That the defendants endure punishment! And where do the defendants keep their sentences? We do not need the Hague tribunal when we have Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica and Bozidar Djelic. Bozidar Djelic is struggling to see the defendants suffer sentences in Serbia. Is that what anyone normal can say? Does the presumption of innocence, if not already in The Hague, apply to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia? This unfortunate government is clearly out of the question. It is obvious that they, even before the UN tribunal, condemned all these people. And now it is the highlight of this kindness and gratitude of the government of Vojislav Kostunica which, my God, will make sure that these people support the penalties in Serbia. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia wrote is a real shame and I am now asking a direct question to Vojislav Kostunica as Prime Minister: is he behind this answer? Based on his previous performances, based on everything he's done, based on all those Serbian citizens who have been forced to surrender voluntarily to The Hague tribunal, it is clear. But this answer is only important for one single reason. Not for us to see who you are and what you are, we know who Boris Tadic is and who Vojislav Kostunica is. But it is also important for Serbian citizens to see that you, who are indicted before The Hague tribunal, find guilty in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11751	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, has again been given by the People's MP Mr. Migati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11752	I would ask the Deputy Secretary to read Article 201 so the other MPs can hear. You said I didn't have the right for five minutes, I say I have the right to five minutes, and the deputy secretary says no. Article 201 makes it clear that if I am not satisfied with the answer, I have the right to comment for a maximum of five minutes on the answer. So, I'm not uninformed, but it seems to be someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11753	Go ahead, Mr. Migati. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11754	Now let me get on with it. The government of the Republic of Serbia has violated Article 13. Serbia's constitution because it has done nothing to protect the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. Vojislav Seselj is a citizen of Serbia, and for five years, an unreasonable deadline, the trial has not begun and now begins after so much and the government of the Republic of Serbia has not raised the issue where it should be, and this is the General Assembly of the United Nations. They're scared there like mice. We have information. When Russia's representative at the Security Council, the current foreign minister, wanted to ask representatives of Serbia-Montenegro at the time for an opinion and to ask a question about the work of the UN tribunal before the General Assembly of the Security Council, then an unfortunate so-called. Our representative said no, no, we're satisfied, don't, please. How can he break the Constitution and the law here? I ask for a special answer and ask the Prime Minister of Kostunica himself to answer me: why he violates Article 13. The Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11755	I thank the People's MP, Migati. According to the Rules of Procedure, first Zoran Krasic, then MP Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Krassic, I missed you, really. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11756	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this is a member of our 201st Rules of Procedure. But if you don't have any problems, I'll tie it to Article 136. Rules of Procedure. This topic, launched by Mr. Migati, has to do with today's agenda because it touches the president of the Republic of Serbia. And is he a reflection of this unity for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia or just for a selected small group? Democrats, of course. This state in terms of government, these people who are in power, not that it did anything to the benefit of Vojislav Seselj, but that everything she did - did on purpose and consciously to do him as much damage as possible. And it would have been much more correct if Bozidar Djelic had written it and said: The government of the Republic of Serbia has been tasked with doing as much damage as possible to Vojislav Seselj since 2001. And that's the answer we expected, because to try something else to prove -- that's impossible. Absolutely impossible. From this answer, which we received, we could conclude not only that the truth was hidden, but that the one who wrote this answer knew nothing. He doesn't even know the statutes, he doesn't even know the regulations, he doesn't even know the final strategy of the UN tribunal, he doesn't even know the division of the defendants by categories, he doesn't know that there's no first category there, and that all the defendants in The Hague are now third category and there's no theoretical chance of applying 11 bis, rule 11 bis of the rules. But, of course, the paper suffers, it's written, it's sent here. Apparently, he's playing some kind of concern for our people out there. Let's see, Mr. Grouchy, what's the big deal? We are now making contact with Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure. Has the current Law on the President of the Republic applied when it comes to Milan Milutinovic? What happens when you force these two laws to be passed, now I'm throwing a weight at the law on the President of the Republic, and you don't like the new President of the Republic? You want me to tell you what you're going to do? Then you will have cake and salt (no Chad Jovanovic) in front of the presidency building, and then you will visit the dear President at Dedinj. It's a miracle the students don't visit this dear president, only the water police are visiting him. It's just the water polo guys love it. Mr. Miloevich, you are not informed enough. Go to Boris Tadic and ask him where his Shuki Plasma was this weekend. He was in Greece, on a private visit. Who sent him? Two cobras led him there and secured him. What was he looking for this weekend in Greece? Shuki Plasma. You don't know who Shuki Plasma is? Ask Boris Tadic. And, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you better let Tadic explain to us what he's doing at the Military Academy pool, where he's being provided, than he's walking around town trying to convince us of something that's really hard on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11757	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic came forward. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11758	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have answered again, of course, on the same subject. I will read you a first sentence of the government's response to the parliamentary question. They say, "Being in mind that the president of the International Criminal Tribunal, in his regular annual report to the UN General Assembly, dealt with the issue of the tribunal's exit strategy, and that a very principled discussion was conducted in the general assembly's plenary, and the speech of the representatives of the Republic of Serbia was made in line with this." So I ask the parliamentary question: What is the exit strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on further work, i.e. the end of the work of the UN tribunal? We all know that, when the UN tribunal was founded, his life span was armed by December 31st, 2008. We also know that, when Dr Vojislav Seselj, after five years of darkness, finally began his trial before The Hague tribunal, the announcements from the prosecution and the secretariats were that his proceedings would continue until mid-2009. The trial was announced after the prosecution's opening statement and a statement by the accused, that the first witness would appear on November 13th, and then there would be six working days in December, then in January, etc. We are witnessing that even this schedule is not respected and, instead of leaving the first witness on 13 November, it was delayed for December 4th, and then on December 4th, it was postponed to December 11th, so instead of six working days, as originally scheduled for December, it was reduced to three days, and then decided that there would be no witnesses in December but would be a prosecutor's expert, Obershal, and it is clear that at the very beginning of the trial, Dr Vojislav Seselj was extended by more than two months compared to the plan. The original plan was due to be completed by mid-2009. It is clear that we are moving slowly towards the end of 2009 and it is clear that with this mandate, the UN tribunal will not be able to complete the trial, not only Dr Vojislav Seselj, but also others indicted before The Hague tribunal. What is the tribunal's exit strategy, that's clear. So, they don't want to go out, they want there to be, two, three or four more years, not only to judge those who are in The Hague tribunal, but rather to keep the UN tribunal as a means of pressure on the Republic of Serbia, the Serb people, and so that they can press in the coming years. The team has been surprised by the next sentence in response to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said: '...' It has been estimated that pressuring the tribunal's prosecution and tightening relations at a given time would be counterproductive... '"and I wonder when we even put pressure on it. Can any of the representatives of the ruling coalition say when we pressured the UN tribunal, which was the occasion, which was the means of pressure, did we achieve something or did we fail to achieve it? Carla del Ponte and, at all, the prosecutors of the UN tribunal are personally changing, but for us there is no difference in who is at that time because we are aware that they will implement the same policy, whoever is personally found (here I am finishing) and bear in mind that I have answered the Rules of Procedure and that I have asked the parliamentary question, therefore, for two reasons I have spoken. So it is clear that the Hague Prosecutor's Office is not giving up on the method of pressure and twisting ears all these years, and it is obvious that such an approach is extremely appropriate to them. It is obvious that he is very effective and that he will not give up on him, not this year but any other year, as long as this UN tribunal exists. So, I ask the first question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia: What strategy is this, how will the Government of the Republic of Serbia refer to the fact that the UN tribunal must cease its work by 31 December 2008 and that until then all first-degree procedures must be completed? Will the Republic of Serbia, like the Russian Federation, insist on the completion of the Hague tribunal's work, or will we agree, in one way or another, to extend and take away more of our citizens and kill who knows how many of our citizens there? Second parliamentary question: Given the fact that you say that the officials of the Republic of Serbia, in numerous bilateral high-level meetings, especially with representatives of the European Union, have highlighted an inappropriate length as one of the inadmissible processes, I would like you to deliver to us – because we all know that official notes are being made, that all these meetings are being recorded at the highest level – here, provide us with one meeting where Boris Tadic or Vojislav Kostunica insisted on protecting the rights of our citizens, where they told any representative, high representative of the European Union: here, Dr Vojislav Seselj, basic human rights are being violated, five years in custody, no trial has begun. So, send us a stenogram that only once was said by Boris Tadic or Vojislav Kostunica, a video, an audio record, any form or official note from which it will be clear that it has ever been done by a high representative of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11759	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all MPs' groups apart from the G 17 plus - 24 speakers. I give the first word to Srdjan Sajn, and let Natasa Micic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11760	For the Roma Party, in any case, the law on the President of the Republic and the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic is of great importance because in this way conditions are created to fulfil all obligations that the Assembly has made both by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, and in that sense, the position of the Roma Party is to support these two laws. However, in addition to supporting them, we think it is necessary that I, as an MP, comment on certain things about this law. One of these things is that we need to take the opportunity to strengthen the relationship between the Assembly and the institution of the President of the Republic, and that the Law on the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure should create conditions for functioning in a qualitatively new way, I mean relations between the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, and in this direction we have proposed an amendment. We believe that it is unwarranted in Article 4. left out when it is stringed, and in Article 4. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic is said: "The conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be ensured by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations". We believe that the word 'Government' should stand before the word 'The People's Assembly' because it is contrary to Article 23 of this same law which says 'The National Assembly and the Government are obliged to inform the President of the Republic on his request of matters of their jurisdiction which are important for the exercise of the authority of the President of the Republic'. So, we believe that if a "National Assembly" were introduced in Article 4 in front of the word "government", we create conditions for a qualitative new relationship between the Serbian Parliament and the President of the Republic, we create conditions to define in the Rules of Procedure that, at the request of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the session at which he will inform the Serbian Parliament of certain issues from his jurisdiction. In this way, a condition is created and that, when important issues such as the Kosovo issue, such as other issues in which the president of the state has an active relationship, he may ask the President of the Assembly to come before this Assembly, to present his opinion, to speak about his work, and in such a way as not to bring the Assembly into a position to think whether he is doing well or not, because the very fact that the Assembly is taking part in the recall procedure, that is, in the process of resolving the President of the Republic, gives it the obligation to be informed about his work. The next thing, the Roma Party and I, as the People's MP of the Roma Party, think that in Article 8, where security is being spoken of by the President of the Republic, is not adequately defined: "The regulation passed by the Government can determine other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic". The subject of this law is not to define different forms of personal security in Serbia. The subject matter of this law is merely to define in which way and who provides the President of the Republic and the people who, that is, are officials or officials located in its immediate environment. So he's referring to his advisors, the secretary general, members of his cabinet, etc. In this direction, we propose the following formulation: 'The Government Regulations can be determined, in accordance with the needs, scope and type of security of persons allowing the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic'. In addition, the next argument goes forward. When we talk about security of personality, we're only talking about need. The scope and methodology of personal security are not subject to this law. This matter is the subject of certain sublegal acts and it is one stretching category. It is a stretching category in the sense that at some point we have a different degree of security that must be protected, whether it is the President of the Republic, whether it is the President of the Assembly, whether it is the President of the Republic Government, in particular we are talking about the President of the Republic, and it cannot be defined by this law. This law can only define the need and ability of the government to respond adequately at a given time. If such a formulation remains, then we give the possibility that the Government will at any time provide the same personal security as the President of the Republic, although the security of the President of the Republic as such does not exist, is already defined, and this is said in the previous position: "The President of the Republic and members of its household are provided by the police, the Serbian Army and other authorities in accordance with the needs of the President of the Republic and the regulation adopted by the Government. ''So, here, in the previous position, it's about needs, and needs aren't always the same. In that direction, I would like to conclude my discussion and ask the promoter to adopt these two amendments. In this way, certain shortcomings of this law, which we will vote on, will be addressed, but at the same time one important thing is being created, which is to establish mutual control and balance in the exercise of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11761	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Srdjan Shin. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. I'm sorry, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is being advertised by Mrs. Veronica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11762	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure say: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as by other persons who are called by the President of the National Assembly." The fact that an DS representative has called these two draft laws technical laws tells about the relationship between the ruling coalition, i.e. in particular DS, since from the DSS literally no MP sits in the hall and this is really something to worry about. There is also no single MP from G17. The relation of MPs to the work that we are supposed to do here is the best indicator, and then only the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here Minister Milan Markovic read us, put us to sleep with this text that we have already received, when it comes to the draft bill on elections for the President of the Republic and the draft law on the President of the Republic. He's read what he's planning, he's left that part of the job, he's gone to his job, or who knows where he left the MPs of the opposition here, or we're alone, so I don't know who we're talking to, I don't know who we're giving our views on these bill proposals. These, ladies and gentlemen, are extremely serious laws. Both laws are referred to by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I think there are really conditions for you to exercise your business rights, not to think but to argue, to interrupt this session, to ensure the presence of Minister Markovic, because it can no longer be tolerated for Oliver Dulic to go public and say we have to work day and night, that we have no idea how many jobs, how many jobs and then, when the ruling coalition comes to mind -- yes, when they think of it -- they're not there, and then one day we work only two hours, and then we work on a rough Saturday. Indeed, this is not the way the public has existed since the multi-party system was in the state of Serbia. I insist, Mr. Mrkonjic, to interrupt the session, to ensure Mr. Milan Markovic's presence, and then to continue our work. Because as far as the SRS and our parliamentary groups are concerned, this is a very serious job, this is very serious and not technical laws, and let the minister be present to listen to what the MPs have to say about the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11763	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Vereca Radetti. I agree with her that the minister should be present. He just felt it, there he is. Please, Mr. Markovic, you have great communication with Mrs. Radet, and I am particularly pleased. The word is a folk letter from Mrs. Natasa Micic, and let the messenger of Alexander Marton be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have two other laws before us to comply with the Constitution. The LDP's position is very clear. The constitution is bad and you're just reminding us how bad he is. In fact, according to the domino effect, it destroys the entire legal system and, therefore, the laws that comply with the Constitution cannot, of course, be better than the Constitution. However, one more thing is dangerous for this country. You, as an authorised representative of the DS, Mr. Ratkovic, were talking about how the Constitution is a dam. Unfortunately, in this country, the constitution has been a dam that has stopped reforms, as for a year since the constitution was adopted, since it was legal, this assembly has not passed a single reform law. These two laws are nothing but prescribed constitutional provisions, which is not good. In fact, the law does not serve to prescribe constitutional provisions, but to elaborate, specify, complete them. Secondly, it is a combination of privileges for the President of the Republic. The LDP has never engaged in demagogy and we have nothing against the privilege of the President of the Republic. But even in this respect, you have derivated the institution of the President of the Republic, by determining in Article 8(1) that the President of the Republic and members of its household have security and who executes that security, and in Section 2, you have said that other persons can have the same security as the President of the Republic. I wonder: who are these other persons who can have the same security as the President of the Republic? But, well, privileges are less important. The worst, therefore, is that constitutional norms are simply prescribed. Here is Article 1: "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". Very nice of you, Mr. Minister, to come back, I'm really interested in you explaining to me what that means. You could have some explanation that the country is subject to the principle of unity of government, and that the President of the Republic is expressing this unity of power. Or, if the principle of power is already in force, it has approximately the authority in every branch of government, thus expressing state unity. No, obviously here was the need to, in one symbolic way, give the President of the Republic some greater meaning. But then, gentlemen, if you wanted to, and such a provision could be found, let's say in the preamble of the Constitution, then you also need to amend the Law on the flag, coat of arms and anthem, and to appoint the President of the Republic as the fourth symbol of this country. It's just like that. This provision that "the President of the Republic expresses state unity" is in direct contrast to Article 9, which speaks of the incompatibility of the functions of the President of the Republic. This Article 9 absolutely did not respond to the task set up by the Constitution, defining the incompatibility of functions, because there is simply no explanation that these functions are which the President of the Republic should not actually perform. In the party country in which we live, in which state functions are actually performed only as party action, the President of the Republic is the top of the iceberg, where it is as party president and president of the Republic. So that's absolutely bad. Furthermore, what Mr Cedomir Jovanovic was talking about, which is that you have derivated the institution of the President of the Republic in such a way as the Constitution provides for the President of the Republic to elect citizens and, if it has violated the Constitution, it can be resolved by parliament. In this way, you place parliament above the citizens, and in other words, you devastate the role of President of the Republic. I don't understand, given that DS's law is the most important thing, how could you possibly agree to that? As far as this second law, the bill on election laws for the President of the Republic, it is slightly desperate. Next time it wouldn't really be bad, I don't know who's writing these laws, if you give it to the interns, they'll be more serious to approach and not make such catastrophic mistakes. It's just like that. Or I don't know, let Mr. Balinovac write letters, poems, dramas, minor damages, you're really humiliating us with these bad legal proposals. Here's the thing. You can't even use the terms. You from Articles 19 to 24. (I have submitted amendments to those members) You call the second election round by repeating the vote. Repeating the vote is a completely different matter. There is a repeat vote if there are any irregularities. If, therefore, elections are cancelled, the vote is repeated under the same conditions. And the second election round is a circle involving only two candidates who received the most votes in the first round. So there's no such thing as the same conditions. This is due to the lightly promised speed and then the collapse of the entire legal system and all institutions. It would be good if you didn't throw up, to accept those amendments I've made. And in the end, as cream on the cake, Article 24. A transitional provision, I don't know if you've read: 'In the first elections for the President of the Republic to be held under this law, the right to vote shall be given by those citizens of the Republic of Serbia... "Citizens" - what does that mean? It's a broad term. It must be determined that they are citizens who are listed in the voter list. Now he says: '...' Under the criteria used for elections for MPs held on 21 January 2007'. Since when has the electoral right been drawn from some criteria according to some voter lists of some choices? Since when? I suppose you are drawing electoral rights from the Constitution and the law, not from some criteria, which is very illiterate and even irresponsible to us, the MPs, and also to the citizens who are supposed to vote. And not to mention, gentlemen, that the electoral list, the single polling list, that so much so, to the sky, has been whineing about Kostunica in 2002 and 2003, doesn't matter. Here, for four years, the government, no one even mentions that unique voter list anymore. All in all, the law is bad -- both. If you want to fix them, accept the LDP amendments, and in that case we would vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11765	I would like to thank the People's Parliament to Mrs Natashi Micic. The People's Messenger Alexander Marton has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11766	The respected chairman, honourable MPs, MPs of the League of Social Democrats expected that the enthusiasm that existed among all parties in the Republic of Serbia who supported the new constitution would lead the MPs of these parties to work faster to pass the laws that are related to the conduct of the elections. However, the tension over the formation of the parliamentary majority, the division of public enterprises and other sinecurs seemed to have been more important to the ruling coalition's parties. Instead of having already held presidential, local, rural elections, we are now facing legal acts related to the presidential elections. Of course Social Democrats League MPs support these two very important laws, but it is a questionable time for them to be passed. As I said a little while ago, we should have talked about these legal proposals a few months ago. The President of the State shall be a representative of the State. He is a picture of Serbia being sent to the world. That is why it is a very important sound basis that will create a good picture of Serbia through the high-quality president of the Serbian state. If that foundation is of quality, we can expect quality work from the president of the state. If not, there may be a number of problems. Representatives of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina are mostly satisfied with the legislative proposals, but these draft laws could be improved by our amendments. We have submitted several amendments and we have information that some of these amendments can be accepted. Now I'd like to introduce you to our two amendments. In fact, Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov and I, Alexander Marton, have proposed that Article 21 of position 1 be changed and that it reads: "At the re-vote of the President of the Republic, a candidate who received most of the votes of voters who voted in the re-voted vote was elected." The draft bill on elections for the President of the Republic reads: "A re-voting for the President of the Republic has selected a candidate who has received the highest number of votes", without defining that the largest number of votes refers only to the re-vote. If this attitude remains like this, there is a possibility of his different interpretation. Parliamentarian Jerkov and I have suggested adding a new position to Article 19, which reads: "The day of the re-voting must be on a day that is not done". In fact, we believe that, just like in Article 5. The draft election law for the President of the Republic should be clearly stated that the vote must be held on an unworkable day. We believe that these two amendments are quite logical, soundly reasonable and I would also invite Minister Markovic to consider our proposal, MPs Jerkov and myself. In this law, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia would have to have the right to support more than one candidate, because we believe that only support through signatures is not the same as voting, and at the vote itself, citizens have the right to support one candidate. We believe that citizens and citizens have the right to support two, three or five candidates at the beginning, if at that moment they cannot give themselves up without showing their commitment on the day of the election. I will end, therefore, MPs and MPs of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and MPs of the Vojvodjani Parliament - LSV, SVM support this text of the law, and we would be very pleased to have our amendments accepted and so our parliamentary group will then make a decision before the vote. We have some unofficial information that the ruling majority representatives are satisfied with some amendments, so I expect a positive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11767	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Marton. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Let MP Borko Ilic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the very beginning a brief comment. Explanation of the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic, namely, at the end of the Explanation — Reasons for the adoption of an Emergency Procedure Act. The assembly received this law in a procedure where an emergency procedure was sought for the reason that the adoption of the law is one of the conditions that must be met in order to call and hold elections for the President of the Republic. In order for the elections to be announced and maintained as soon as possible, it is necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, thereby preventing possible adverse consequences', etc. Of course, I want to repeat, everyone has been informed that an emergency procedure has been withdrawn. Does that mean now that it's not that important and urgent, or is it something else? The adoption of the law on the President of the Republic and on elections for the President of the Republic is only one of the conditions for the election to be discussed for the President. There are also laws that the Assembly must pass: foreign policy, defence, military and security services. It is only then that the conditions for calling elections for the President of the Republic are met under the Constitutional Law. I would like to warn: only in one case can those deadlines be moved - if because of Kosovo and Metohija Serbia finds itself in such a situation that territorial integrity is at risk. The SPS believes that elections should not be held in this case, but focus on defending Kosovo and Metohija and protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. And it can't be a matter of agreement in the ruling coalition -- will it and when it will. So the first condition is that all laws be passed, and it is the responsibility of the ruling coalition whether they will be brought in on time. We have a situation where there are laws on foreign affairs, security, defence and the military in the procedure, and the President of the National Assembly, removing from the agenda the point of the Parliament's questions, unauthorized, did not put them into the agenda of these significant laws. It's a simple question: when will it arrive on the agenda? Because that's the only way to get conditions for the election. The other thing I want to say. The SPS Group considers that the law on the President of the Republic should be passed and, above all, the responsibility of the President of the Republic should be regulated, and that is the case. But the SPS parliamentary group will not support such a bill on the President of the Republic. In short, I'll only give five reasons. First. Article 1 of the Law states: "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". It is, of course, a constitutional category and it would not be controversial if there were no practice that is contrary to it. If Article 9 of the Law on the President of the Republic, which in a vague way speaks of the incompatibility of the function of the President of the Republic, just says that he cannot perform another public or professional activity, of course it can be interpreted differently. The conclusion can be drawn from this - that it can also perform a party function. We're against it. The President of the Republic cannot express state unity if he is also the head of one party. If he is the head of one party, he can only express unity to the party's supporters, not Serbia's state unity. The first condition that this law could be good is that it is clearly and precisely defined in Article 9 that the president of the Republic of Serbia cannot perform any party function. Let me remind you briefly of the very popular time you've been using, in the 1990s, and as you say, the Slobodan Milosevic regime. The Slobodan Milosevic, when elected president of the Republic of Serbia, froze his post in the SPS. The condition that this law is of value, that even if there are any assumptions that it can express state unity, is not to be the head of one party. Like this, he's the president of the Republic in the morning and the president of the Democratic Party this afternoon. The President of the Republic should gather the people, call them to council, to unity, especially in the protection and defence of state and national interests. But as president of the Democratic Party, he shares Serbia. Shares on Democrats and Anti-Democrats, Reformists and Anti-Reformists, on advanced and retrograde, beautiful and ugly, etc. And this divided Serbia is even more divided. Under such conditions, the president cannot fulfill the basic function ahead of him, which is an expression of the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. The second issue is the responsibility of the president of the Republic of Serbia. It is the Constitution that determines jurisdiction, but at least it is time to put some of that into the Republic President's law. Of course, not outside the Constitution, but in order not to be interpreted outside the Constitution, for those very reasons, he should find a place here. Because, for example, there is no constitutional authority of the President of the Republic, and I have well remembered the sentence of Mr. Minister who says - no one can, by law, reduce or increase the authority of the President of the Republic - if I remember correctly, Mr. Minister. So no one can reduce or increase his jurisdiction. Exactly, how do you interpret the President of the Republic, by a government regulation or, I don't know, by some decision, the President of the National Security Council that unites national security services? Where's the foothold in the Constitution when it comes to it? Third reason. When it comes to taking an oath before the National Assembly, it is not clearly defined whether it is before the National Assembly, where the session of the Assembly is called, and in the Rules of Procedure there is so - called. a special session that is called for, or that is, as it stands here, a gathering of MPs. It doesn't matter how many of them get together, so the President of the Republic, like last time, takes one number to the presidency building and then takes an oath there? This is not swearing before the National Assembly. This is where the oath is taken in front of the National Assembly. It's the fourth reason. The President of the Republic has the authority to propose the Prime Minister. This article is not fully worked out. We had experience in the Mart-April-May period, when Serbia was in agony for three months simply because of a lack of agreement by the ruling coalition leader, that it could not win the government. The President of the Republic eventually proposed to the Prime Minister, in a minute to twelve. What does that mean? This way, the member implies that the President of the Republic has in his hands the electoral will of citizens in his election to the National Assembly. Now, it's not the function of the President of the Republic, but it had to be worked out here that the President of the Republic, who can provide the majority and, of course, on some evidence, offers a term of office within 15 days, a month, so if not he -- the next, so if not him -- the next, and only when three months are up, then the Assembly will disintegrate. Next, fifth, so to speak, the question is "The real President of the Republic after his term of office has ceased." The SPS is very supportive of a sentence in the Law Reason that says: ''... The dignity of the President of the Republic shall be safeguarded by appropriate arrangement of its position during his term of office, as well as, perhaps more, by appropriate arrangement of his position after his term of office has ceased. The bill follows that concept.' The difference between the SPS and the ruling majority is that we believe that this is a significant sentence and it will always be, and the ruling majority, who calls itself a democratic bloc, thinks that it is important only when a representative of the democratic bloc is the President of the Republic - is in this, and it is big. After all, isn't it an experience behind us that the current ruling coalition, which now has the President of the Republic, has arrested and extradited the previous two presidents of the Republic to The Hague? How is the President of the Republic's dignity preserved in this way? Does this mean that a new way is being promoted, when the next one comes to power, to arrest this President of the Republic, and so on, as since the 1804th century, a century and a half of the Karadjordjevic and Obrenovic dynasty, as whoever came to each other sated. It has to be the same for everyone and it's true for everyone. And it would be fair if in this bill it had found a place in addition to the current President of the Republic, those rights have all the so far, in a multi-party system, the presidents of the Republic, and the presidents of the SRJ, and Serbia. Then we'd believe you in a sentence to keep the president's dignity safe even when he's in office, especially after. Of course, we also have a whole series of objections to a very vague bill of elections for the President of the Republic, but I would leave little space for my colleagues to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11769	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, instead of Borko Ilic, who is not currently in the hall. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: He can't do it instead of Borko Ilic.) I'm sorry, Veronica, but I'm sorry. That's because MPs walk around a lot, so I can't catch them. Let the Parliament of People prepare Jelena Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11770	It's a good thing we have these laws on the agenda because it's an obligation both under the Constitution and by the constitutional law. Mr. Mr. Gristle, to understand what it's about when some MPs come out here and try to criticize something, whether anyone likes or dislikes the Constitution or not, he commits. Those who take part in the elections under this Constitution have admitted to the legality of this Constitution. So you know, when they come out here to criticise some constitutional solutions, it's probably because they think the speaker is a wall of pay. We need these two laws because Serbia must be a serious state that respects its constitution. The SRS has submitted a large number of amendments to both draft laws aimed at improving these texts, since what the Government has proposed is not a good text of one law and another. Why isn't he good? Because it is evident that many things are prescribed from existing laws governing the position of the President of the Republic and the elections, when it comes to the election of the President of the Republic, and these solutions do not comply with the new constitutional provisions. I would not now enter the amendments, since it will be in particular debate over it; we will state the reasons for each amendment, why we have submitted it, what we are asking to improve. I want to use this principled debate to sum up some impressions. When you look at the government's bill, what kind of messages we get from these texts. We get very bad messages, wrong messages. We're getting a message that needs to be maintained. We're getting a message that this law can and can be applied, and it can be applied, but it won't be any harm if it doesn't apply. That message comes from every provision, mostly because of who wrote this law. The law was written by a whore. You understand, then, that revolutionary justice and the revolutionary interest of them guides them through politics and through life. We have some provisions on something called the President of the Republic's privilege. It's not even a privilege, it's some rights that normally belong to an individual who performs this very significant state function, but we have in practice had different behaviors. When the privileges and rights of the President of the Republic are discussed by the DS, the image of Slobodan Milosevic comes to me immediately. He did not have the opportunity and the right to enjoy what exists in the law because he was not allowed by the Democratic Party. He could not have been the president of the SPS and the president of Serbia, but this is no obstacle for Boris Tadic to also be the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the DS, some faction, to which it does not matter. Now you explain to me: what can I believe? There's no young Chad running away. He led the "condom versus cordon" demonstration. We're going to the president's house. Where are your students? That's when it was free study. Now it's all paid up, students quiet. What did you calm them down with, aman? These are some things that Serbian citizens know. They can't get around. I think the principle debate is the right place to say, let's remind ourselves, to realize how serious the proposer is when he offers these solutions. Because these same ones, they don't have a problem, they can spit and lick everything right away. They're going to vote this bill, but they're going to shoot him down tomorrow. When tomorrow? When theirs doesn't pass. Just to remind you, I recognize some faces here, which were five or six years ago in this assembly. Do you remember the Law on the financing of political parties? Aleksandra Drecun and Bozidar Djelic came and the people came, so here say the Council of Europe, and the European Union, everyone says it's best. The only normal in DS was Srdjan Popovic, who heard one discussion that the law was written by someone who had not participated in the elections in life, so he begged them: aman people, come on, take it easy, this doesn't matter. No, it was force, it voted. After the next election, they say: well, radicals take the most from the budget. But -- they say Democrats -- we write the law for us, we calculate that we will be with the largest number of MPs, we will take the most money from the budget. Then transparent Serbia and those two baldies go, and then Cesid goes, I don't know about these Srdjans of yours, but I guess they do, too. It's not a good law. They're criticizing the law they've passed. And we filed the amendments and said, "It's not a good law." Fight against that law. No, you radicals don't know. The law's passed - it's no good now. It'll be the same with these two laws. It'll be exactly the same. Look, we've submitted amendments to keep the law normal and good. You don't have to adopt any, you can vote completely, here, all the amendments to refuse. But what happens when Boris Tadic loses the election? So will you scream, say, "The law is wrong, it's not in accordance with the Constitution, it's not in line with modern liquids, as it was, the North, the West, the East, the South." Well, that's our political reality. You see how small the line is between the best and the worst. One hair splits. Super law - it's no good. The president of the Republic can't be party president - and when it comes to Boris Tadic, he can. Yeah, right. Milosevic had a large police force, a large army, etc. They came to power, they calculated, they hired a new army, they hired a new police force. You made the Army only Cobras, as personal bodyguards of Šukit Plasma and Boris Tadic. Now the godfather's duet's in and they're finishing the job. Civil war faces - out, similar generals, ballerinas, etc. I had to mention this because some things were well written in the Constitution and should be applied. The President of the Republic must represent a country abroad because it is its constitutional function. And he's expressing unity. But not the unity as Natasha Micic understands it, whether the government is divided and what it is by its essence, so make a mess and mistake. It's got to be. But how can he represent? Not the way we had the chance to see. The National Assembly votes the declaration, the resolution that clearly stands in -- should not go to elections. He doesn't mind coming out in 15 minutes and saying, "I call for a vote." All of Serbia rises against him. Of course, then Slobodan Vučetic will say: he did not violate the Constitution, he expressed his political stance, his freedom of opinion is limitless. Oh, it's not boundless. When representing the state, he needs to know what he represents, not his free mind interpretations and some creativity: we politicians need to take responsibility. For what? He can take responsibility for everything he does, but why hit us, why hit the citizens? In order not to take time away from my friends from the SRS, we currently have a president of the Republic who doesn't blink when he has to say that with his colleagues the presidents of the chats and they express great concern because they are thinking about whether the tax in their country is one or two percent, and poor Boris doesn't know how much his country is. He's already gone rogue in some elite, his level is someone, I don't know what, some conversations, etc. We should somehow have mechanisms to prevent that kind of freedom. In that sense, this bill with all the amendments has been unarranged, but if we were to take care of it in that respect, then I don't need to remind you how many jerks would run out on this left-hand side of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11771	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Let the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11772	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I will make a few more remarks which have a principled character, but which also have essential attributes, and as far as the law we're talking about today is concerned. Someone said earlier, I think Mr. Ratkovic said, that in the debate on purely technical laws, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Tomislav Nikolic have put politics in place. I'd just like to remind myself that the process of creating a legal norm is actually a legal technique, and that the legal norm is always a policy. Now, we need to see what kind of policy is and what kind of policy do these laws reflect and ask ourselves: why does DS agree with such a weak president? The fact that their coalition partner Vojislav Kostunica is doing this is clear to us. It is their policy, they are aware that they will never have the President of the Republic, they are covered by an absolutely weak president of the Republic and an absolutely powerful government. But we don't understand why DS agrees with such conditions and why they allowed the text of the law, and also as a constitutional category, to be introduced by the President of the Republic with such weak powers, therefore the weak President of the Republic. I'll just make a few principle remarks. In particular, compared to the 1990 Constitution, the president's powers have been drastically reduced. On the other hand, the absolute tendency to favour the government is noticeable. Under earlier provisions, the constitution allowed the president to request the government's official position on a specific matter. Now this right is denied to the president. In an emergency, the president has only the right to co-sign the government's acts, while it has not been so before. What are the president's rights now, other than to subscribe to something the government decides on? In declaring the state of war, due to the inability to meet the National Assembly, a kind of triumphate is being formed, made up of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. If we bring this into contact with Article 17, which regulates the question of replacing the President of the Republic, then we can ask the question: if there is no President of the Republic in such a situation but is replaced by the President of the National Assembly, does the President of the Assembly have two votes in that triumph, and why is such a triumph when the powers to have two votes come into one person? That's not what the law says. So, absolutely, this problem is unregulated. In order not to repeat what has already been said and not to speak in advance of what we have tried to correct the amendments, we will talk about it when it comes to amendments to these laws, I would only make a few more remarks about Article 17 that regulate the replacement of the President of the Republic. I would ask the question: why is this not more detailed and more clearly regulated by this bill? The President of the Republic shall replace the President of the National Assembly, in the light of the inability to perform his duties, following the end of the term of office, following the discharge or resignation. There is no clear way of expressing the capacity of acting as President of the One who replaces him, or the President of the National Assembly. Furthermore, as for replacing the President of the Republic in an emergency or war state, the provisions offered here and in accordance with what is written in the Constitution are in contrast with each other. The President of the National Assembly can only replace the President of the Republic for three months. That's clearly said in the Constitution, and it can't be any other way. On the other hand, during the wartime, the president of the Republic extends his mandate and lasts three months after the war is over. A simple calculation can make it possible, for example, that the time of replacement of the President of the Republic can last nine months, can last indefinitely, which is contrary to what is written in the Constitution. So, another confirmation that our constitution is antinomic and that our bad laws are the result of the bad solutions in the Constitution. In the end, I have so much time left to just ask the question of the Minister: why is it not stated in Article 24 that the decision also names the judges of the Constitutional Court? So, it's an act that the president appoints judges of the Constitutional Court, it doesn't say anything. Is it a legislator, or does the representatives of the government who wrote this bill feel that it is so irrelevant matter that it should not stand in the proposed text of the law or is it a waste? If it is a stroke, it should be corrected; if it is a intention, then it is indeed scandalous to have such a relationship with the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. Other fundamental remarks will be made when we explain our amendments, to whom we have tried to fix this bad text of the law as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11773	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word. Let MP Miletic Mihajlovic be prepared. LDP MPs have used their time. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11774	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, there have been two laws that have been spoken of since this Assembly was established. In fact, all these months ago, we often mentioned the necessity of passing these laws. Discussions went in several directions, from what these laws should look like, there have been a lot of criticism, and I think it's a good thing that these two laws were passed today, which are on the agenda of this Assembly because this issue really needs to be resolved; not to mention that there is a constitutional provision and a provision of the law on the implementation of the Constitution that these laws are passed. We have, therefore, two texts whose importance has been shown by the discussion so far. It was indeed a pleasure for me today to listen to all the MPs, both the positions and the opposition, who have devoted a lot of attention to these laws and indeed presented a number of good arguments, not to enter into that the minister in his pledoaje has very comprehensively introduced us both to the importance of this issue and to the suggestions he put before us. Namely, the President of the Republic, as the Constitution itself says, represents state unity and its weight exists not only in this constitutional provision but for the simple reason that citizenship, which all citizens, which the people of the President of the Republic always see as something special, as one of the highest bodies in this country and that function itself carries great weight. For these reasons, it is even more important to pay serious attention to these regulations. How important is the fact that the Constitution has devoted an entire part of it to this matter. Namely, the President of the Republic of the Constitution was assigned a dozen members, from Articles 111 to 121. He's defined a lot of questions that are now being discussed by these laws. The Constitution itself, therefore, defined both the position of the president and his competence, noting in particular his jurisdiction and function in the declaration of the law, the issue of elections, incompatibility of functions, mandates, resignations, resolutions, immunity, replacements, in order to ultimately, in Article 121, give the obligation to pass a special law on the President. These two laws, in fact, represent the development of these constitutional provisions, in accordance with the best tradition that we have ever had, but also by consulting a comparative right, given that many countries represent republics such as our country, so that the experience of this matter in parallel law is quite large and that a lot of it has been taken over in these regulations. So, as I said, the Constitution with its dozen members regulates the question and position of the president. We have two laws that work this out. Of all these regulations, I would stick to one member of the Constitution and one member of the law. A colleague who spoke before me mentioned it. I think the question is quite serious and requires special attention. Namely, it's about article 120. The constitution, which regulates the issue of replacing the President of the Republic, i.e. Article 117 of the law on the President of the Republic, which also treats the issue. In Article 120. The constitution says, "When the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duty or his term of office ends before the time he is elected, he is replaced by the President of the National Assembly." Article 2 provides that this replacement of the President of the Republic shall take a maximum period of three months and Article 3 'the elections for the President of the Republic of the National Assembly shall be required to be called upon to be held no later than three months from the beginning of the prevention of the President of the Republic or the termination of the term of office to which he is elected'. There are several legal and factual issues here, which can be more than interesting. One of these issues, mentioned by the minister in his presentation, is the question of legitimate nature, and some of the debaters have asked another question here, the capacity issue of the president of the National Assembly while replacing the president of the Republic. In addition to being limited to three months, the question has been raised whether he can, with full capacity, replace the President of the Republic, or whether he can carry out all those tasks that the Constitution and the law have foreseen as the powers of the President of the Republic. The law is quite clear there and it denies the right of the National Assembly president to carry out all the tasks, i.e. to fulfil all the powers given to the President of the Republic, not only because of the limited time limit on which he can do so, but also for other practical reasons. The question of legitimate nature is very important to me for the simple reason why the President of the Republic is elected in the direct elections, therefore, directly by the citizens, while the President of the National Assembly was elected indirectly, so he was first elected as MP and then, in the National Assembly, as the first among the equal, he was elected president of the National Assembly. Article 17 of the Law discusses the constitutional provision of Article 120. The constitution and in its first position foresees that (this does not mean that it discusses the reasons why the President of the Republic cannot carry out his duties) ''if the President of the Republic resigns, is resolved or prevented from performing his post, is replaced by the President of the National Assembly''. Also here is the corporate position of Article 2 120. The constitution, where it's said that time is limited and that replacement can last for the longest three months. Article 2 is quite important because it concerns the direct competence of the President of the Republic, namely what the President of the Assembly can do during the replacement of the President of the Republic. It is very easy to separate the two types of competences that he is given to carry out. In fact, during the replacement of the President of the Republic, the president of the National Assembly is doing two types of work. One kind of protocol business is, therefore, the representation of the Republic of Serbia, the example works, in the country and abroad, the receipt of recalls and external letters from foreign diplomatic representatives, while other types of jobs here are defined in matters that do not suffer delays, or if they do not, there would be a threat to the state. It is an obligation "to call elections for the National Assembly, to propose to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister, to exercise competence in the area of defence of the Republic of Serbia and to command Serbia's Army". By observing this member, we can very clearly separate these two groups of jobs. The first, therefore, where ongoing operations are carried out, and the second group of competencies, which must be carried out without delay so that the state does not suffer any damage. However, we also have the position of Article 3, which says: "The President of the National Assembly, who replaces the President of the Republic, is obliged to disband the National Assembly in all cases where it is the constitutional duty of the President of the Republic and to declare any elected law an order." So here his jurisdiction is different from the President of the Republic who performs his duties in full capacity. The President of the Republic does not, for example, have to, by means of an indication of the signing of a law, be able to return it to the Assembly for review, while the President of the National Assembly during the replacement of the President of the Republic does not have this right, there is an obligation that all the laws voted by the National Assembly by means of its order and declaration, which shows and resolves that dilemma that I raised at the beginning of the presentation, whether the capacity of the President of the National Assembly during the replacement of the President of the Republic is complete. Therefore, there are certain tasks, i.e. responsibilities that represent the responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly, not only of the right but also of duty, during this three months as it replaces the President of the Republic. It should also be mentioned that the president of the National Assembly cannot perform certain tasks that the President of the Republic might otherwise do. Let's say he can't file a motion to change the Constitution, he can't grant pardons, medals, he can't participate in the process of electing the Constitutional Court. That question was also raised by some speakers who spoke before me. So, neither should I propose to the National Assembly the number of judges, to which, under the Constitution, the President of the Republic has the right, but he also cannot choose them from the list established by the National Assembly. All in all, this law also provides for this case that can happen in practice, which can lead to a political crisis in the country and other problems. With this article I mentioned, in Article 17 of the Law, this matter is well worked out. Maybe there's something else you should add to that. Finally, a large number of amendments arrived at this law, so, given that everyone who has discussed this law so far has really been properly discussed, with a desire to properly assess the text that we have before us and that, possibly, some remarks improve it, it is expected that certain amendments will actually improve this text. Either way, we need these two laws. You know, in happy countries where, unfortunately, ours doesn't belong, there's that saying "one president -- always president." People who respect that saying have stable states. It's to expect this to be one of the steps to get our country into the line of these happy countries. The DSS-NS MPs will support this text, with some small interventions to be carried out with individual amendments. In any case, I would once again say that this law has been significantly well done and, with any small corrections, I think it will be one step further in democratisation of Serbia and the regulation of its institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11775	I thank the People's MP Goran Rakovec. The word has the People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and let the MP Srdjan Milivojevic be prepared. Srdjan Milivojevic is withdrawing his discussion, I thank him. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11776	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have very important laws before us, which regulate very important issues regarding an institution headed by the state. Article 111 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to "the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". He should express this state unity in relation to the state policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who finally elect him to this post. When it comes to established policy, I remind you that in the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Article 2 says that the government determines and manages the politics of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises as to how through the constitutional provision of Article 11 of the President of the Republic, the state unity of the Republic of Serbia is expressed. How does he stick to the policy framework in the context of his political action? In practice, we have, on the one hand, that this framework is not respected by the President of the Republic, or, on the other hand, that established policy is not clearly defined in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, for example, in terms of whether Serbia's future is in NATO or not, there seems to be no agreed position between those who form the government and, of course, between the government in general and the president of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, the state unity of the President of the Republic was not expressed in relation to the citizens either. We had earlier campaigns, and during the presidency of Mr. Boris Tadic, said that Serbia was deeply divided on two sides, or half, into one advanced, pro-European and other traditional, conservative Serbia. Now imagine, when someone else comes to the position of the President of the Republic, he can use some other expressions, for example, on a service or a subject and on that patriotic one. Is it good for the President of the Republic, anyone to be, in any way, to share Serbia and its citizens? Thus, the President of the Republic sends a very bad message to the citizens and thus does not already express the state unity of the Republic at its head. In the past, we have had the situation, for example, in the last local elections held in 2004, and even in the last parliamentary elections, we have had that maybe 70-80% of citizens do not experience the current president of the Republic as their president, but only see him as the leader of a political party, in this case the Democratic Party. The President of the Republic, regardless of who it is, cannot be divided by a political figure or by a double political personality, at the same time to successfully perform the leadership function, the party's leadership and to be at the head of the state. For these reasons, of course, there is a conflict of interest and the relevant member in the bill must be complemented by an amendment. The SPS has proposed one such amendment and, of course, whether it will be accepted or another who solves this issue by separating it. The president of the state is a statesman and cannot be a party leader, because in such a way he distances a vast number of people, i.e. citizens, from his party policy. At a time when a party leader, if he is a party leader, is elected president of the Republic, he grows up to be a statesman, and then he must have such a relationship that all citizens feel and experience him as their president. We at the SPS don't think it's right to question the resignation of the President of the Republic during the emergency and wartime. The resignation cannot be respected during emergency and wartime because the President of the Republic is number one in those conditions, he is commander-in-chief and leaves a message of desertion, to which he can associate others, that they may withdraw from the front line or from that line of the task they perform. The SPS believes that the adoption of these two laws does not create all the conditions for calling the elections. In Article 3. The constitutional law says: "The elections for President of the Republic will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007, i.e. within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the last law governing the position and election for the President of the Republic, the defence and the Serbian Army, foreign affairs and security services". The SPS will not agree with those who consider these two laws sufficient to call the elections. This violates the Constitution, so I ask all clubs to take care of it. Of course, there are other aspects, but we'll talk about it through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11777	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, answered the word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11778	I reported on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, to ask Mr Milan Markovic for his opinion. Before that, Mr. Minister, a question for you: Do you know who Vladan Starcevic and Sladjana Mrvovic are? Help of friends: from Smederjevska Palanka. You don't know. Here, I'll tell you. Since you introduced provisional measures in Smederjevska Palanca in June of this year (meaning that it has been more than four, almost five months), the government of the Republic of Serbia and you, as a resolution minister, have made a decision to appoint the Interim Council and the president of the Interim Council is Vladan Starcevic of the Democratic Party. Before that, Mr. Vladan Starcevic was a member of the Municipal Council until 2004. The municipality's secretary was Mrs. Sladjana Mrvovic, also until 2004. This Mr. Vladan Starcevic and Mrs. Sladjana Mrvovic were covered by a criminal report of 296/2006 over some budget-related malversions for the results of budget inspections, etc. So you obviously don't even care about checking if the person you're setting up as president of a temporary council in a criminal prosecution municipality. That's really amazing. If we know that in Serbia we have ten municipalities where the deadline has long expired, where emergency elections should be called, then I can imagine what is happening in other municipalities. Now in Smederjevska Palanca, ladies and gentlemen, there is a general collapse because Nenad Ristic, a gentleman who was the president of the Assembly, who is from your brotherly coalition DSS, of course knows about this criminal application of 296/2006 and this criminal report, and the threat that this criminal report will be made public, blackmailing Mr. Vladan Starcevic. And they so, as if nothing had happened, as if there had been no referendum, still manage the municipality in the way they liked it. In fact, nothing literally works, the work of both public enterprises and the municipality of Smederevska Palanka has been completely blocked, and thanks to you, Mr. Milan Markovic, at the head of the municipality, your party colleague from the DS, Vladan Starcevic, led by the criminal proceedings. If it's from you, it's too much, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11779	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just draw your attention, remind myself how it's regulated in parallel law, what the world's presidential system is, so, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a few notes. The presidential system is a constitutional arrangement in which legislative and executive powers are, in principle, widely divided. The Head of State is entrusted with executive power, but Parliament is entrusted with legislative authority. The head of state, in principle, cannot affect the position and work of parliament. However, in all presidential systems, there is an open or bypass way for the president to directly or indirectly influence parliament's work. In relation to the position and impact of the President on Parliament's work, we differ: a clean presidential system, with strong presidential and super-presidential ingenuities and systems. The presidential system has given a new foundation, principled and technical, for the individual form of the head of state as bearer of the entire executive authority and has historically stemmed from the monarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, the American presidential system is well known to you. The 1787 constitution regulated and strengthened the position of President of the United States. The position and function of the president in the pure presidential system. The President of the Republic, elected by the people, who alone is responsible, is entrusted only to the executive authority. It cannot in principle affect the work of parliament. However, the president submits draft laws and measures to parliament by means of messages and statements. In a presidential system with a strong president, he has more authority than he is theoretically and according to the logic of the constitutional regime. So, for example. The President of Brazil can veto his veto on the bill. In addition, in the presidential system with a strong president, the president is given the opportunity to request a review of the legislative proposal or the passed law, to pass an orderly legislation and to call for parliament to be convened. Such similar powers are even more pronounced, and the right of the president is greater -- in super-presidential systems. In the presidential systems, the head of state is also commander-in-chief of the armed forces. The president sets up management officials and their mutual relationship depending on other powers he has as head of state. In the presidential system, as well as other more regulated systems, the head of state is the head of state and its sovereignty and performs tasks such as the country's representation in international relations, the conduct of diplomatic talks, the conclusion of contracts, the accreditation of diplomatic representatives. The constitution does not highlight extraordinary powers in some countries. In the presidential system with a strong president, and in particular in the super-presidential system, since this is covered by general and normal constitutional powers, it is extremely foreseeable that the head of state may, in the event of a need, therefore, adopt such acts as to suspend certain provisions of individual laws in war or other situations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now refer to the proposal for a bill on the President of the Republic. The first thing I notice and have a serious objection to Article 2 of this proposal. ''The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, by secret vote. ''But the norm should be more precise, to stand there: the President of the Republic of Serbia - so that word must come here. Next, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 8. Security of the President of the Republic. This kind of security and this type of machinery doesn't even have an English queen, neither does the President of the United States, France, England, Russia and other countries. Please, Article 8. The security of the President of the Republic reads: 'The President of the Republic and members of his household... '"Now the question arises who enters the members of his household, which persons, who face, '... provide police, Serbia's Army and other authorities in line with the needs of the President of the Republic and the government's regulation." Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. Do you know how much this President of the Republic is gonna cost? Very much so. But he'll cost and go to the expense of taxpayers, pensioners, disabled people and others. When it comes to incompatibility, SRS MPs have a certain position. What is the position of SRS MPs and the party itself, when it comes to the compatibility and incompatibility of these functions, said the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I'll remind you it's in article 55. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany provides that the President of the Republic cannot have different functions at the same time. The SRS expressed its position through its boss, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that in this case, who is an SRS candidate, it would not simultaneously serve as president of the political party. I remember, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, how much during the days of President Milosevic you made remarks that he was also the president of the Republic, the SRJ at the time, and the president of the political party. The SRS is against such views, such policies and such opinions. Why? Because the President of the Republic (today is the president of the DS, tomorrow will be from the Radical Party, which is quite natural and normal, or from another party) the entire system and its entire machinery, will be able to function as its political party. That's why the head of state is the head of state and everything else is gone. And he won't interfere with other things and he can't influence in any way, indirectly or directly. In Article 56. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany is even prescribed that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany takes an oath, but he takes the oath immediately and can also take it religiously. At the end of that oath, all that he promises, and all that he swears, he says, "By God." The resolution - and there are certain issues that Mr Tomislav Nikolic pointed to. But when it comes to powers (from parallel law, I suggest), in Article 60. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany is normised which are the powers of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Among other things, he, on a case-by-case basis, gives a pardon on behalf of the federal state. However, in the provision of Article 24. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic in paragraph 3 is referred to as 'gives pardon'. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic has no right and has no authority to grant pardon. It can only be said: individual pardons. This provision should have been clear – a single act of pardoning a particular person. It's in parallel law so regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the provisions on the termination of the term of office, I must remind you that 11 members have found a place here, a third of the provisions of this law now contain provisions giving certain rights and privileges to the future former president. Those rights and privileges are absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. Hundreds of millions of taxpayers can go to these costs and these privileges. That's what we're telling you, that the cost of taxpayers from that leather purse run by the finance minister, as the French say, must be strictly controlled, costs must be reduced to the least possible extent. Now, look, I beg you: right to the honorary title, and the right to compensation, and the right to return to work, and the right to receive a monthly allowance after the end of the payment, and the right to a special monthly payment, and the right to the Office, and the right to the work of the Office, his advisors, and the right to security... The president stopped being someone in this country and he has the following rights when it comes to security. "The former President of the Republic has the right to be provided by the police and the Serbian Army." Please, here he says - even the Army. Other rights following the end of the term of office: ''The former President of the Republic has the right to a diplomatic passport. Whenever abroad as former President of the Republic, the former President of the Republic has the right to protection, assistance and services of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Serbia. The former President of the Republic has the right to access archives from the time he was President of the Republic." Now look at one thing, very interesting. Look at the position and the status. He says, "The position of the President of the Republic that has been resolved." For example, this President of the Republic could have made some mistake that could have been unintentioned, could have been that he committed a mistake out of trouble, and he's been resolved and he has no right to have a president whose term of office has expired. He says, "The President of the Republic who is relieved has no right under this law to have a former President of the Republic." This is completely wrong and wrong. This is how it should be for the president who stopped his mandate -- he has no right as President of the Republic. Then the taxpayers and citizens of Serbia won't pay for something they don't have to, and someone will benefit. And who here has benefited? He benefited from that candidate who was one term, or maybe a year or two, if extraordinary elections are discussed and some changed circumstances arise, elections come and that man exercise certain rights. Not to mention the fact that all rights, individually, have a president after the term of office, a lot of authority and privilege. I wouldn't bother you, but it's hundreds of millions that can come out. What will the former president of the Republic provide for the maid and the nanny, his wife, to drive to the market for the Mercedes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That can't be allowed. That's what taxpayers pay for, that's what citizens pay for. Last night I had a promotion of a book by Professor Vojislav Seselj in Kovin. A pensioner comes up to me and says, "Sir, can I ask you a question?" I said, "Here you go, ma'am." He says, "Here's your check, I'm taking a pension of 4,000." Well, you know what, only when he fucks an "audi 8" when he turns it on and crosses a mile, is one salary from a disabled person and a taxpayer cost. We believe these privileges are indeed privileges, which do not even have an English or a Dutch queen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no minister to ask him why there are no criminal provisions in the Bill of Elections for the President of the Republic. This law had to contain criminal provisions. For what reason? What happens and what happens? It should be foreseen: who allows the presidential candidate or political party for the purpose of the campaign to use objects, financial resources, vehicles, technical means and other assets of the MUP, other ministries and state bodies, judicial authorities, public enterprises and institutions, a business organisation in which the state is a majority owner, vehicles and techniques of the military and military authorities and bodies of local self-government - will be punished for a criminal offence for at least a year. In this proposal, this provision had to be contained and incorporated. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to say right now, one of the officials from a democratic party said this way -- don't touch the director of the Directorate, do you know how many millions he's given for the campaign? You know, these are the works that need to be sanctioned. Any party can abuse its position tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, what should be further foreseen in this law? Anyone from the body and organisation illegally exerts pressure (and you know that we have had these pressures) or influence on the definition of employees in that body where a functioner or a powerful man, or who is a candidate for this or that list, or voters, to go out or not to go to elections, invites him to be responsible for voting or not to vote, or asks him to say that he voted, or why he did not vote, will also be punished for a criminal offence, and the sentence should not be less than a year. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, a large number of citizens are calling us. I have recently received countless letters asking for an increase in the salaries of judicial employees who have been promised an increase that no one understands. The judicial union, i.e. employees, has concluded an agreement and conclusion, however, the conclusion is absolutely unclear and the judicial employees will not have any idea of it. I reiterate that citizens also appear on strike in schools in Serbia. Small salaries of educators, pensioners, and disabled people complain that they have small pensions. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is very serious. In any case, these categories of our citizens must be given maximum attention. The salaries of these poor people and martyrs who have five or fifteen or fifteen thousand should be increased and only in this way prove that one government is both democratic and successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11781	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. Mrs. Radeta asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. Petkovic is up. Let Mrs. Radet go, young Mr. Petkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11782	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Oliver Dulic broke members from 1 to 241 on Saturday. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular Article 27, paragraph 1. Namely, according to what remains in the stenographic notes, Oliver Dulic tried to suspend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in one part of course. This morning, at the beginning of today's work, Mr Tomislav Nikolic drew attention to this problem and explained to Mr Oliver Dulic that he could not behave the way he acted on Saturday, but in the meantime I read these stenographic notes and it is truly amazing that the MPs who voted for this proposal for whom, first of all, could not be voted because, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained, parliamentary issues are not the good will of Parliament's president, but are the obligations under Article 199(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and at each session, must be that part of the agenda, but Mr Oliver Dulic said that he, on the basis of Article 143(2). The Rules of Procedure propose that the National Assembly decide to withdraw item 3 from the agenda. The parliamentary questions, to which I repeat again, had no right because, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic told him this morning, he did not give the MPs the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, but it is the business right of every MP. Watch what Oliver Dulic says next. Therefore, to withdraw the 3rd point of Parliament's questions and to seek information and explanations on the basis of Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This, dear colleagues, is truly amazing. That Oliver Dulic suggests that the assembly majority vote that MPs cannot use two members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I assume only at this session. They may plan never to allow us to speak on the basis of Articles 225 and 226 again. Indeed, anarchy such as exists in the National Assembly since Oliver Dulic's president was unremembered. I was a folk MP at a time when Natasa Micic was president and I thought she was unconquered, but now indeed -- a dead race between Natasa Micic and Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11783	Thank you. Don't, when there's no president, talk like that, please. I'm closing the morning session. The first speaker will be charming Mr. Petkovic, followed by Dusan Bajatovic. We'll continue the session at 15 hours and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic, and let MP Dusan Bajatovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11785	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 121 of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is clearly foreseen that the Assembly is obliged to pass a new law on the President of the Republic. Also, the Constitution in Article 111 lays down the position and jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. Of course, in addition to the Constitution, some other laws -- military law, defence law and a number of other laws that we are obliged to adopt in this House -- determine some of the powers of the President of the Republic. I am sure that these laws will be passed within the scheduled deadlines, so that elections for the President of the Republic can be held. The powers of the President of the Republic may only be established by the Constitution. It's a very important provision. In that regard, neither the President of the Republic can affect the authority and authority of the Government and the National Assembly, and of course the National Assembly cannot act in the opposite direction. So what the Constitution and the laws governing its jurisdiction and position cannot be violated and cannot be changed on an arbitrary basis. I think it is very important today to mention that the President of the Republic is proposing to the Government the budget needed to function as an in-coherent executive body, but certainly also the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic. I will ask the Honorable Minister Markovic to answer me, I have been trying to find in the draft budget: are the funds provided for the presidential elections, which are expecting us anyway, in the course of next year? One of the important provisions, which is well worked out in the draft of this law, is that no one can be elected more than twice as elected President of the Republic. I think the law in certain members that predict it is quite clear. In fact, it doesn't matter if the president is going to do the job for ten years or whether his term is going to last practically twice a few months, so no one can be President of the Republic for more than ten years. It is also very important, when trusting the mandate to form the government of the Republic of Serbia, the law stipulates that the president gives a mandate to the candidate who is capable and able to secure the government's choice. We followed yesterday, probably most of us, elections in the Republic of Croatia - with them not so planned. So it's certainly another convenience of this law. I also think that in this proposal, the issue of resignation and resolution of the President of the Republic has been worked out satisfactorily. Today we had a chance to hear certain objections to the proposal of this law. I may agree, in some ways, that certain provisions of this bill are practically prescribed certain provisions of the Constitution and are not fully elaborated. I think it's a Article 9 that's literally copied, literally, but I don't think that's gonna affect the content and quality of this law. The status of the former President of the Republic may be exaggerated, or 11 members of this law regulate its status, but I do not think that the position of the former President of the Republic can be the same as that of any ordinary citizen. It is certainly normal in other countries, for those who have expired their mandate to have certain privileges. So it's no wonder that's stated in this bill. The candidate for support of the President of the Republic -- it is predicted that 10,000 signatures are required. If I am not mistaken, the mayor of Belgrade needs more than 30,000 signatures because it is about the percentage, or the number of voters, but here my colleagues have also expressed confidence that 10,000 signatures are quite enough, above all to allow candidates of minority parties to have their own representative in the presidential elections. As far as this law on the election of the President of the Republic is concerned, I think that the members, first and foremost, of Article 4 in Section 2 and Article 5, which regulate the deadlines provided for in order to maintain the election of the President of the Republic, are precise and will make this whole procedure much easier. Also, in Articles 18 and 21, we can make a certain parallel, which is to connect them. Perhaps in the bill, first and foremost in Article 18, it could have been predicted and clearly stated that the first round of elections was being held. That's especially important. We had the opportunity for respected DSS professors to suggest that there might be a possibility when one candidate gets 49% votes and another 48%, and we have a number of invalid ballots, that there may be some problems. In the spirit of the law, this can be interpreted this way, but I think it would be more accurate if it were really the 'first', and instead of those re-elections in article 21 to say'second round of presidential elections'. Also, Article 24 of the article itself can be understood as I suppose the proposer had the intention, but it really puts me in doubt a little bit of this sentence in the Explanation: "It is the desire to have two republican bodies elected in direct elections - the National Assembly and the President of the Republic - elected from the same electoral corps". Someone who reads this may think that the voter list, which was valid in January for the election of MPs, will practically be the same for the election of the President of the Republic, i.e. that all those persons, citizens, who have acquired voting rights, will not be able to vote. I think it is necessary here to underline and explain, of course, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia because we have heard some remarks today and this Article 24th Law on the election of the President of the Republic. It is certainly a pleasure in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the law on the President of the Republic. According to announcements, at least from the media, there are potential three presidential candidates in this room, so we've had a chance to hear from some of them. Who's the third candidate? ) Here, Mr. Bajatovic shows, perhaps he is the third candidate (I said that according to media announcements), i.e. I assume his party will have a presidential candidate. I think it's good to talk today about their rights, their competencies, but also their privileges. In any case, it would be my greatest pleasure to sit in this room next year and swear an oath before the elected people in the Republic of Serbia, and you all know exactly what is in Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the oath of the President of the Republic. I think that, regardless of who it was, we will have the opportunity to truly welcome the future President of the Republic and ask him to respect everything that is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, especially in Article 114. The Constitution. I am sure that the vast majority of MPs will vote in favour of the draft law on the president and the bill on elections for the president of the Republic, and the DSS-New Serbia will certainly do so. We also voted in 2004 for these laws and thus allowed Serbia to finally get the institution of the President of the Republic. I am sure that this law will be another one in a series of adopted laws necessary to call the presidential elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11786	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, and let MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11787	Dear fellow MPs, of course I am not an SPS candidate for president. Unlike my colleagues, I wouldn't tie these 10,000 votes to minority rights because I don't think there's any reason for it to be in the Corps of those rights that minorities exercise. Let's tie it up a little bit to some civil stuff. I've been thinking about how to spend these three or four minutes that I have left. Well, then, in the beginning, I'd like to be a little malignant. In what way? Well, here's to tell you, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, which I was late, I was on the stock market, the stock has fallen significantly. So then I ask you that he was not elected to the president perhaps Tomislav Nikolic while I was away. Of course, the answer is no. So just one little comment, as sometimes we know about this payphone, that time, in fact, we spend on some things that may not be interesting. This is one of the laws that allows the election to be called, that is, from that set that we should bring by the end of this year (right? ) under the Constitutional Law. I think the process of passing this law is characterized by the fact that most opposition parties, as far as I could see, have practically submitted the same amendments to several members of this law. This, above all, refers to: The public work of the President, of Article 9. Incompatibility of functions and conflict of interest, to Article 18. Proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister, on Article 22. Disbanding the National Assembly and so on. So again, practically, as members of different opposition parties, we have seen the same maltene failures in this law and I will in principle, given that we have submitted a lot of amendments, point only to some things. In the government's election -- there is a real question, even if it seems literally: what if the president doesn't trust anyone with his 90-day term, does he have the electoral will of citizens? I believe that some of the proposed amendments (not important which parties) should be accepted here, which specifies the president's obligation to give him a deadline to get 126 signatures, or to convince him that he can form a government, and if that is not possible, after a period of 15 or 45 days, that he must entrust the candidate of the party who had the largest number of votes in parliament. I think there's a reason to think about it. With the President's discharge, I don't think it's really good that there's a possibility of being resolved by parliament, even with the help of the Constitutional Court. So if one-third of the MPs initiates the initiative and the Constitutional Court adopts an initiative that the president has violated the Constitution, we, with a two-thirds majority here, can replace him. Then either the Constitutional Court should be expelled, because I believe that the Constitutional Court's decision that he violated the Constitution would have required the President's discharge, or it would have to be replaced in the way he was elected, that is, by a referendum. What I don't think has been solved here, and I think it was in the previous proposal for a law on the president, is, since he has immunity as an MP, what if the president is found to be charged with some serious crimes, so we take off his immunity and, let's say, the president is convicted in some court proceedings. Of course, on the moral side, he'll probably resign, and what if he's not moral enough? Perhaps you should add here that if, in some criminal proceedings, the president is convicted of some crime or some other criminal offence for six months, a year and more, his mandate will automatically cease and new elections will be discussed. So, that question, if anyone was involved in criminal activities, it's not settled here. In light of the fact that my MP group doesn't have much time left, I want to say one more thing. Given that the President is in command of the military and that we want to share responsibility between different branches of government, I think it is not logical for the president to also be some kind of commander-in-chief, or military commander, and to be president of the National Security Council. I think we should separate that. At the same time, the president should not be commander of the military and president of the National Security Council, but should be resolved by appropriate legal acts in a different way. So, as far as the SPS is concerned, unfortunately, this law can hardly be supported, even if it is corrected by all these amendments given by the opposition, for the simple reason that we think that this law was made somewhat selfish, slightly for the current president, and on the other hand, when it comes to incompatibility of functions, I want to remind the current ruling majority that one of the principles that you requested while you were not in power was that the president of the state couldn't be president of the party at the same time. If you've ever advocated it, it would be good to keep that promise and stick to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11788	I thank you, too. The word is made by MP Branislav Nedimovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11789	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, and I would like to address this opportunity for the citizens of Serbia who are following the transmission of this session. Surely it is an extremely important topic, which has been gathering the attention of the Serbian public lately, so we should pay particular attention to what is on the agenda today. We have before us the law on the president of Serbia and the law on elections for the president of Serbia. Why are we discussing these laws today? First of all, because of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was passed in November 2006, because of the constitution voted by the largest number of MPs, and those MPs who speak today in favour of the adoption of the law on the president of Serbia, as ions of MPs who left and right say they have some objections to the draft laws on the agenda, whether right or wrong, but everyone has the right to talk about these bill proposals in the way he thinks he should speak. Most importantly, on 8 November 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, made a distance from the 1990 Constitution, which was the Constitution of another time. It's just that time carries everything in front of it, social change makes it its own, so it's time to bring in a new constitution. I am grateful to all the MPs in the previous meeting and to all citizens of Serbia who gave a positive signal in the referendum for the change of the Serbian Constitution, because this is what the DSS has insisted on all these years, and has had great support from all parties in the Republika Srpska Assembly. The DSS's relationship to institutions is long known. It is known, above all, because of those problems we had during 2002 and 2003, precisely with this institution of the president of Serbia. Just to make a little trip into the past -- what's been going on in those years at all. We had several elections in 2002 and 2003 for the president of Serbia, which were unsuccessful. We didn't have a president of Serbia. We've had an extremely big crisis and some other institutions. Such a thing must no longer happen in Serbia, and it is precisely the adoption of this law on the president of Serbia and the law on the election of Serbian Presidents that will allow us to no longer have such a situation, and that, fortunately, in the coming period, we are only thinking about who will be our president, to choose the best candidates, those candidates who, together with other state institutions, can lead ahead, and that we are no longer dealing with whether we will have one institution or not. As for the matter itself that regulates the problems of the Serbian president, so far, there has been one colourful rule within which the whole matter has been processed. This time, by law on the president of Serbia and the law on elections for the president of Serbia, this matter is formed in one satisfactory way, accepting what is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a sacred rule that is later discussed through certain provisions of one law and another. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia established a parliamentary system to divide the authorities into a legislative, judicial and executive system that is in some way divided between the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined the position and competence of the president of Serbia. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, they are defined in Article 112. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the president of Serbia is given jurisdiction to represent the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad, declares the laws, proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister and a number of other competencies contained there. These laws elaborate in a more detailed way on this matter and try to establish rules related to one of the most important state institutions in our country. In other countries, there is a different legal practice, in which this matter is regulated. Somewhere it is concentrated in one single law on the president of the state, it has been broken in two laws, as is the case now with us, somewhere there are even more legal texts, there are even laws that speak of the rights of the former presidents of the Republic -- in which their position, their rights and their obligations are regulated. But here this matter is summed up in one systematic way in two laws, and I think that when we talk about these laws, we need to talk first of all about several different areas that are regulated. First of all, the property of the mandate, the powers defined by the Constitution, and later on, in relation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, those elaborated in the law on the president of Serbia, the conditions necessary for the performance of the Serbian president and his competences, and there is the largest area defined by this proposal for a law on the president of Serbia, and the National Assembly will do the most in this part of the regulation of this area. The law also discusses the rights of the Serbian president at the end of the term of office. The election rules are contained in this second law, in the law on elections for Serbia's president and, therefore, the whole matter is covered. When we talk about the specificities of the law on the president of Serbia, we need to focus on several topics so that we don't take a lot of time here. In the debate on amendments, we will certainly have opportunities to look back on any area defined by the law on the president of Serbia. I'd like to stay here, first of all, for a few institutes. First of all, on an oath taken by the president of Serbia, at the end of the Serbian president's term and on the rights of the president after his term of office has ceased. As far as the oath itself is concerned, an extremely significant thing is the fact that the oath has a constitutional significance. So the mandate begins to run the moment the president of Serbia takes an oath. This is defined in Article 10(3). The draft law, and in this way, is, in fact, envisaged to introduce the president into office. Also, some situations are foreseen that can happen in practice. In the event, for example, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ceases its mandate, when MPs cease their mandate or simply do not attend a regular session, the possibility of gathering MPs is also provided for the very reason of necessity, the necessity of the Serbian president to take an oath, an oath contained in Article 114. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which my colleague Petkovic spoke of earlier. I wouldn't hold on to it anymore, but that oath is very important to all of us, and I think we should all insist on it. I apologize to my colleague Rakovac, he said he talked about it too. As far as the term of office is concerned, it should be noted that there are several possibilities for this. One end of the term of office, i.e. the end of five years, has been over five years since the oath, which is one of the most natural ways to end the post of President of the Republic of Serbia, with certain exceptions, when the president is eventually elected in another term. I would pay more attention to the situation when the president of Serbia resigns and when the president of Serbia is resolved. As far as resigning is concerned, this matter is not clearly regulated by the Constitution, and it is in a nearer way defined by the law on the president of Serbia. First of all, with regard to the person referred to by the president of Serbia, the law provides for it to be the president of the National Assembly, and the way it will be done, by sending resignations to the National Assembly through regular instruments such as the office. So that there are no unknowns in the manner in which resignation is submitted, primarily because of the possibility of possible abuses, the possibility of misunderstandings, misunderstandings -- when the moment comes when Serbia's president resigned. The other thing that is extremely important is the instrument of resolution. In situations where a number of MPs have submitted an initiative that the president of Serbia has violated the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has an obligation to call. If the Constitutional Court considers that a violation of the constitution has been committed, then it takes a two-thirds majority of MPs to resolve Serbia's president. The situation is also defined if, for example, the Constitutional Court characterises that there is no violation of the constitution by the president of Serbia, then it is not going into any further proceedings to resolve Serbia's president. In the end, I would say one thing that is important primarily because of the institution of the president of Serbia, not looking at who the president of Serbia was today, who will be president of Serbia in some future period. I think the Serbian President's institution is an extremely important state function, which we all need to take care of. It is as important, the institute, such as important and certain state symbols, as anything representing the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps the number of norms that were disputed during the afternoon debate, related to the rights of the President of the Republic after his term ceased, may have its whole story as a real basis, but I think we should concentrate on one thing: the president of Serbia represents the element representing the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. I think that, in that sense, we should take care of the persons who were presidents of Serbia because in this way, we are protecting the state of Serbia, protecting its institutions. We should also protect other institutions because, if there is no institution, there is no state, and we had a situation in the previous period when we were in such a position. Let's not let Serbia ever be without any institutions again. That's what the DSS has been up for all this time and what we're asking for your support in passing these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11790	Thank you, Mr. Nedimovic. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Belic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11791	Thank you to the DSS MPs for this applause before I went out for the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something very insolent about the ruling coalition, exactly one part of the ruling coalition, so she made an effort to speed up these two laws and create at least partial conditions for calling elections. Is that, ladies and gentlemen, resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues? Is this finally the destruction of the Dayton Agreement and the drowning of Republika Srpska in the Bosnian Herzegovina Federation, and that will potentially cause some negative consequences for your candidate? Of course, since they don't trust each other, and they know each other very well, this has extended so far. However, the conditions are not yet met because the Constitutional Law clearly and unequivocally prescribes which laws must be passed before the elections are discussed: the law on the election of the President, the law on the President of the Republic, the law on external affairs, the law on the military and the law on security services. Without these five laws, there is no vote to be called, regardless of what the round about the final resolution of Kosovo and Metohija's status is speeding up. But since these two bill proposals are ahead of us, then let's analyze what it is that they have chosen to serve us and convince us that this is very good and that we have to adopt this. Of course, the MPs of the SRS have a large number of objections and a large number of amendments to both the bill and the other bill, but then, when it comes to discussing amendments, we will say a lot of things, what we object to this bill. He says, let's say we start with the law on the President of the Republic, from Article 4. Conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic: 'The conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be ensured by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations'. Article 112 The constitution has been regulated by all the powers and powers of the President of the Republic, so let's see how the Government will help to create conditions for the implementation of matters under the authority of the President of the Republic. He says, "The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad." Where do you see what the government needs to do to represent Serbia in the country and abroad? What are these jobs that the government needs to do to allow the president to represent Serbia in the country and abroad? Get him some gas? Get him a plane ticket? Why are you putting the government where there's no need to be? Second jurisdiction: 'The Order declares the laws, in accordance with the Constitution'. What conditions will the government ensure to the President that he declares the law in accordance with the Constitution? Third: 'Proposes the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister, after hearing the opinion of the elected election lists'. Now the government will provide conditions for the president to propose a candidate for Prime Minister. I think they're here, the one who prescribed this bill, from where he prescribed it -- I don't know, but last time I commended you, Mr. Minister, that you wrote the law, obviously not this one. And, if you're already copying laws, so you have the best copyist, his name is Stevan Liliæ, a lecture at Law School. He prescribed an entire administrative law, though plagiarized. There's another one, he's finished Resavska school, everything you give him -- he'll rewrite everything. He says, "He proposes to the National Assembly the bearers of functions, according to the Constitution and the law." Where's government activity here? What is it that the government needs to help the president propose function holders? "It sets and recalls the order of the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a proposal from the government." Now, here you have "based on the government's proposal" based on the Foreign Ministry, and that, as far as I can see, is the only jurisdiction where you can do something. "Accepts the credentials of foreign diplomatic representatives." Will one of the government's representatives bring him a tray of credentials when he gets there? "Gives pardons and medals." Where's the government here? What's the government supposed to do to the president of the state so he can pardon someone? Unless you're thinking of helping him convince you to pardon, say, Chumeta and some others, say Bugsy and some who are very responsible in that "bulldozer revolution" for winning power. He's doing other things with the Constitution. Now, you're gonna break up here, helping him carry out these other tasks with the Constitution. But there's one thing here that's behind point eight in Article 112. He says, "The President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the Army and sets it up, advances and relieves the officers of the Serbian Army." Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you can see, the government would like to serve, to help, to give opinions, to convince, possibly the president of Serbia, not to make a mistake in carrying out his duties. If this article is 112. The constitution and a member of the 4th bill put into some kind of relationship, it is clear that it will not be the president of Serbia but will be the president of the ruling set. "The President of the Republic's headquarters is in Belgrade," Article 5. "Residency space, protocol facilities, facilities for the stay of the President of the Republic and members of its household in the country and abroad and the work space of the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic determines the Government after it has obtained the consent of the President of the Republic." Why would the government determine that? Why not make a decision of the National Assembly, for a strict division of powers in executive, legislative and judicial terms says that legislation is a little more competent than these two? Then why would the government instead of the National Assembly? In the National Assembly are the MPs, the representatives of the people, and they have, I think, the most rights, to make these decisions and to propose and make? Security of the President of the Republic: ''The President of the Republic and members of its household shall be provided by police, the Army of Serbia and other bodies in accordance with the needs of the President of the Republic and the regulation adopted by the Government. The legislation adopted by the Government can identify other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic.' Here we come up with a bit of a symptomatic situation. As far as I know, you've only brought the Army down to Cobra. There are two other battalions that you line up when your friends from the world come along; you have fewer, but when they come, you line up one or two battalions. The military, which would defend the state of Serbia -- we don't. We had it until a few months ago. Especially now that this military minister of yours has arrived, now he's brought the Army down to that battalion that's lined up and the Cobras guarding the current president. Where will the police be? Will the police guard the army that will guard the president? And what other faces are you proposing? Would you like to make up some Burgius brothers again, like them? Ladies and gentlemen, so far, it's known who's guarding the President of the Republic, who's providing him, who's providing the residences, who's providing the workplaces, the rest areas. Now, after this, I'm sure you won't know. Resolve. We're reaching a member of this law that can be very dangerous. The president is elected by citizens in a referendum, by secret vote. Who has the most votes becomes president of the state. In this case, as you have predicted here, most, from whose ranks it does not have to be president, may decide to relieve the President, of course, with the consent of the Constitutional Court. And what will be our Constitutional Court, we know very well, given that a few days ago we had a motion here to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, so the people who should be in Ustasha, in that prison, rather than in the Constitutional Court came by. But these are your suggestions. The SRS MPs have unequivocally indicated that at least three of them deserve to be taken into custody. Now the elected president, by the citizens, will be able to replace the Constitutional Court, in which he will sit and possibly be chaired by Slepčević, because he has shown himself best to you. I see, in these selection biographies, you wrote him two pages. Of course, you will publish this in Serbia's Official Messenger. Article 17: "If the President of the Republic resigns, is dismissed or prevented from performing his post, it shall be replaced by the President of the National Assembly for the longest three months". This last sentence is very disputable. We had a chance in the recent past that we did not have a president of the state, to be replaced by the president of the National Assembly, to have Natasa Micic in that place, that she, as she said from this pay phone - I decided to decide - and to introduce an emergency in the state, although she had no right to do so, and to arrest 13,000 people for not a full three months. Now, that's the danger he's hiding. Of course, I don't think Mr. Dulic is going to call in a state of emergency, but you never know. Legal acts of the President of the Republic: ''The President of the Republic shall make the indications, decisions, rules, orders, orders and other legal acts laid down by law. By order of the President of the Republic, he declares the law, disbands the National Assembly, appoints and recalls the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia, gives medals and sets up, promotes and relieves the officers of the Serbian Army. By means of a decision, the President of the Republic shall hold elections for the People's MPs, propose to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers, grant pardons, appoint the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, head of the Office of the President of the Republic, advisers of the President of the Republic and other officials... '"The decision disbands the National Assembly and calls the elections. How can the National Assembly be called? Don't you give that president a little more authority than the Constitution does? Now, we're coming to another place, it looks like someone else joined the coalition, so we're coming to another place where many of us, who carry a yellow, yellow card, or a coded one, will eventually get stuck. "Besides the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General, the tasks directly related to the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be carried out by the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic and by the advisers of the President of the Republic." It doesn't say how many counselors. Well, when the minister was entitled to 42 advisors, or assistants, and every assistant has as many advisors... And what is most dangerous in all of this again opens up the possibility that, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic said this morning, embassies to all the towns, cities, villages in Serbia, to open through the so-called. The people's office, which is so popular, it's just that it's spent people's money. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote for these laws, and we have proposed amendments. If you adopt them, then we can talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11792	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic. Before that, just one notice. In accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will extend the work after 18 hours until the joint principle debate is completed after the starting points of the agenda. Thank you for understanding, and I don't think there's gonna be any need for that, but just in case, as they say. Here you go, Mr. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11793	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the President of the Republic was given, as is known, only after several electoral rounds, and that was the consequence, above all, of very rigid provisions in the previous Constitution, concerning the election of the President of the Republic. But, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11794	Here you go, Mr. Belic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11795	I'm listening, so I think you're telling me something... Of course, I say, that was the consequence, above all, of the very strict and rigid provisions of the previous Constitution, but it was also the result of the overall socio-economic situation and the dissatisfaction of the people with the existing state of Serbia and of the mistrust in the political elite. Anyway, we've really spent a lot of money and a lot of energy to get the President of the Republic. This time, with these proposals of the law, we are in fact fulfilling our obligations under the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, which is that by adopting the law on the President of the Republic and the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic, along with those other laws, as defined by the Constitutional Law, above all by the Law on Defence, the military, foreign affairs and security services, we are practically approaching elections, normal and regular elections for the President of the Republic. Of course, today's tones have been well dedicated to this particular election campaign, and I will try to be specific and to say more about the very proposals of the law, above all about the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. The new constitution, which we adopted last year at Mitrovicadan, clearly defined the position and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, in Articles 111 to 121. By adopting these proposed laws, I said, we will truly fulfil our obligation as a parliament, to obtain conditions for calling elections for the President of the Republic, but I would also remind myself of local self-government, i.e. rural elections. It is also very important that these proposed laws establish a more correct balance and balance between these three pillars of government, which we all talked about today, about legislative, executive and judicial, which is, in fact, the most sensitive part in each parliamentary system. As we know, the Constitution also prevents the National Assembly and the Government, depending on the political forces, or weakens or strengthens the position of the President of the Republic. Therefore, we can move only in those frameworks that are strictly envisaged and adopted in the Constitution by Article 112 and as regards the competences of the President of the Republic. I'll say more about it, in the sense that this law, through this debate of ours, could really be more complete, more complete and quality. Namely, Article 112. The Constitution is determined, as I have said, by the other powers of the President of the Republic, and by the other areas of the laws of the Republic, by its specific competences, and by that, including the Law on the Military, on the defence, but also by the law of pardons, on the distinctions, etc. So neither the National Assembly nor the Government can step out of that framework. However, if we look at Article 7 which speaks for the work of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic (of course, these funds are provided through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we will already have one of the next sessions, or at the first next session and the budget story), I don't know why the chance to also legally establish the National Office has been dropped. I must remind myself that they are MPs, so I was one of those MPs in the previous meeting, that we have said several times that there is neither a division nor a function relating to the financing of the National Office. So it's not about being against the National Office, it's simply about wanting to be legally founded, and in Article 7, in some of the following attitudes, let's say, it could be defined that the President of the Republic has the right to form the National Office in order to be more complete, or to say more effectively, communication with citizens. It was quite simple. Such a provision would, of course, come from the provision of the Constitution, Article 112 of point 8, which defines that "the other tasks of the Constitution" could be carried out, so we would not step out of this framework that defines the Constitution, or Article 112. There were words, of course, much more understandable than the opposition than the position, and about Article 9, which is quite, I'd say, elastically, to avoid some more difficult definition. Namely, it's about the incompatibility of functions, and it's about Article 115. The constitution declared that "the President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity". This law also highlighted this, as well as the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Performing Public Functions. This leaves room for different interpretations, and we in New Serbia really expect that the future president, and in this election campaign itself, which has certainly begun, and is being conducted naturally over 365 days a year, candidates for the President of the Republic, and even more elected President of the Republic, will take account of that. Furthermore, I think a couple of colleagues in the discussion mentioned Article 12. Is it really two terms of office, or is it actually going to be the first term of office for this newly elected president? If, of course, someone, past the current President of the Republic, was elected President of the Republic, it would be his first term of office indeed, which is the provision of the Constitutional Law, I think he is Article 18(2). If someone else were elected, then a provision of the law could be applied that the President of the Republic would begin its term on the day of the oath in the National Assembly. These remarks, why the current President of the Republic did not begin his mandate by taking an oath in the National Assembly, therefore, do not stand for a simple reason – he was thus elected before the adoption of this Constitution, and after this election cycle there will also be conditions for, to say, a solemn act and, of course, to honour the oaths defined by the Constitution. As for Article 13, it defines when the term of office of the President of the Republic ends after the end of the term of office, in a regular cycle, by resigning or dispensing. Recently, we had the same big story here, after the death of the mayor of Belgrade, whether it was defined in law or not, so there was plenty of room left for different speculations. I don't think it would be too much if, in one sentence, there might be that possibility -- in the event of death -- which is perfectly natural, i.e. God's will. The next thing I know is the act of resigning, and I think there's an extremely complicated explanation in this bill. I wouldn't talk much about that procedure right now. I think it would be most elegant to respect what the Constitution has already provided, which is that the term of office of the President of the Republic ceases on the day of his resignation to the President of the National Assembly. Explanations in style whether it is submitted in writing, whether it is followed by public address to citizens, whether there is a need to speak publicly, I think it is really too complicated. And it states in the Constitution, in Article 117(2), that the President of the Republic ceases his term of office on the day of his resignation, and it is known that the whole procedure is submitted, the moment when the President of the Republic resigns to this House, the President of the National Assembly, is deemed to have expired. The remarks that were heard in terms of the President's impeachment procedure. It's clearly defined by the Constitution. But I don't think there are any objections that question the professionalism and ethics of constitutional judges, whether the President of the Republic has the authority to propose five judges, or the list proposed by the National Assembly selects five and, of course, the Supreme Cassation Court which suggests five. I believe that a state such as Serbia is going towards what is called the rule of law, towards establishing trust in these institutions and that, certainly, if there is a breach of the Constitution, of course, that procedure will be initiated. But one other thing is a little vague to me, and I would simply take advantage of Mr. Secretary's stay here. We know that when signing an order to declare the law, the President of the Republic may return the law to the Assembly for re-determination, but this proposal says "if it considers that the law does not agree with the Constitution". Why is it now written by this bill, when the Constitution says this much simpler: "The President of the Republic is obliged to make an order to declare the law at the latest within 15 days of the day of the legislator's vote, or to return it to the National Assembly, for a re-determination, at the latest within seven days? Exactly, gentlemen, in that written explanation, it will say: you have violated constitutional provisions - because it is not in accordance with the Constitution. But the president won't do it, because there's a Constitutional Court. What are the responsibilities and authority of the President of the Republic now that he assesses whether or not the Constitution has been violated? So there seems to be no need for that provision again, changed from that provision that stands in the Constitution and which I consider to be quite correct. In any case, I believe that during this debate, and especially after the opening of the debate on amendments, since I know there are many amendments, we will certainly contribute and I believe that we can fix it, and, of course, New Serbia's MPs would be more pleased that this law is written more precisely, and that it is quite possible to correct it through the debate on amendments. New Serbia's MPs will vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11796	Thank you, Mr. Whitey. The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Koprivica, and then a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11797	Dear People's MPs, the very position of the President of the Republic, jurisdiction, mandate, resolution and choice are governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it should, according to the model, be the authority of the executive authority to express the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. However, as proposed in the bill, it certainly will not be. Because, honourable MPs, the fundamental feature of this bill, above all, Mr. Minister, is the unconstitutional nature of certain members. Then indiscriminateness, complete inaccuracy and a vague trail of members, which provides broad opportunities for abuse and broad possibilities of malicious interpretation of almost all important members. I will warn you of a few members, especially a member of 18 who is talking about proposing a candidate for Prime Minister by the President of the Republic, which in practice can lead to a number of abuses and damages in the country itself because this member is unspeakable, inexplicable, vague. Because, as proposed in the bill, an obstruction by the President of the Republic is possible when proposing a candidate for Prime Minister. Also, Mr. Minister, I point to a member of the 10th who is directly contrary to Article 109. The Constitution. Article 10 of this proposal stipulates that, if the Assembly has suspended its mandate, pay attention to this jargon word - 'gathering', that the president would swear before them, even though Article 109(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not give such an opportunity. The President of the Republic should neither be able to perform any function nor the President of the Party, as referred to in Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which exclusively and explicitly says, "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". I also point out to you Article 15, that the same member is in direct contradiction with Article 118. The constitution, because it norms the resolution of the president by one-third of the MPs, please pay attention to this, Ministers, and not to provide itself for a procedure of resolution, which precisely and explicitly regulates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I quote Article 118(2). The Constitution: 'The discharge procedure can be initiated by the National Assembly, on a proposal of at least one third of the Members of the People's Parliament'. So, the procedure for dispensing the bill and not mentioning it, I don't know why. Some members are too high, because they are contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so, of course, they should be deleted. I'll also point to Article 42. A proposal that is in direct contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Article 13 because it provides for special protection abroad to the former President of the Republic, which our deputy President, Mr Nikolic, spoke of, and thus you are putting into an unfair position of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution, Article 13(1), states: "The Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad". That's why that attitude should be deleted, because, in the extreme line, it's excessive, it's anti-constitutional, and it would be the privilege of the former president. What makes him different from the rest of our citizens? Also, I point to a Article 43 that is contrary to the Constitution because it prescribes that the President-in-Office is not entitled to the former president. We believe that although he is resolved, he still has the former president and must have all the rights that every former president has. That is why the SRS has submitted a number of amendments, in order to prejudge certain provisions, from the president's election to the entry into force of this law, to more precisely specify the rights and obligations of the president of the state, to make the legal norms clear and accurate, and to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we have proposed to delete several members because they are contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and many amendments are most well-intentioned to improve the text of this bill, which may only make little sense if you adopt all amendments of the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11798	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and then a People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever I get some proposal for a law in the field of public law, I remember Ivo Andric, who, commenting on one of his colleagues, said that while he was reading that book, he was breaking through like "His Duke Drasko through the milletish brush." We are about as far as we go through the lines of these two draft laws, on the President of the Republic and on elections for the President of the Republic. Both bill proposals are full of different both legal and linguistic shortcomings, and I will, in that good old custom, go in order when it comes to the draft law on the President of the Republic. In the beginning, I must correct the chairman of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, who said that the Republic of Serbia is in the form of a state order of the republic. Serbia is a republic, but it is not a form of state order, it is a form of government. That's what you learn in the first year of law school. In the form of a state order, we're a unitary state because we don't have a federal unit in our system. The first thing that falls into your eyes is some really bad, pure language solutions. Article 4: 'The conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be ensured by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations'. I don't know why the promoter here used this final verb form of "execution" when the President of the Republic has served as President of the Republic for five years and it is also a constitutional formulation. I don't know why you resort to language innovations in law when the Constitution doesn't stand like that. Article 5. Item 2: ''Residential space, protocol facilities, facilities... determines the Government after obtaining the consent of the President of the Republic.' In practice, this could lead to the next one. What if the wife of the President of the Republic doesn't like the resident space set by the Government? What if his kids don't like the fact that tennis courts or swimming pools are too far from the resident space that the government has assigned? So then the government protects itself by determining everything it takes for the President of the Republic and his family to live, but only if the President of the Republic priors gives consent. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself claimed that Serbia was a republic. Then I don't know why you're entering into the bill of law a provision that pre-chances a monarchy but republics. This should be done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that it determines the residence space, the protocol facilities, the facilities for staying as president of the Republic and members of its household, on a proposal from the government. So it's the government that has to propose, and it's the National Assembly that has to give the last word and there's nothing to ask the President of the Republic. Furthermore, Article 6 paragraph 2: 'Information on the work of the President of the Republic shall be made available to the public in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance and regulations governing the protection of classified information'. This'secret data' formula is not accurate enough. It can in practice cause numerous abuses. After all, it's not legal terminology. Legal terminology is "official, military or state secret" and nothing else can be a secret when it comes to the President of the Republic. Of course, there is a certain area of privacy to be protected, but this formulation opens the door to numerous abuses. Citizens under a company of respect for classified information will not be able to obtain some information that is extremely important for the interests of the state and for the interests of the citizens themselves. So instead of saying "secret information protection," it's supposed to be "which regulates the protection of official, military or state secrets." Furthermore, Article 8 of Article 1: "The President of the Republic and members of its household shall be provided by police, the Army of Serbia and other bodies in accordance with the needs of the President of the Republic and the regulation adopted by the Government." I don't know what other authorities could provide for the president of the Republic besides the police and the Serbian Army. Then the principle question opens. First, whether the president of the Republic of Serbia can provide the authorities of foreign states, because of such a formulation and something like that. Secondly, whether the President of the Republic can provide some private security agencies. Both would be a disastrous and inappropriately responsible function performed by the President of the Republic. Next, Article 12. I'm sorry they're not here, Mr. Secretary of State or Mr. Secretary of State. It seems that the government does not care enough about what certain terms are used in the sphere of public law and do not know what the difference is between being chosen and being elected. That's two completely different things. It is said in Article 12: "No one can be elected more than twice as President of the Republic, no matter how long his first and second term lasted." In fact, it was supposed to say, "No one can be elected President of the Republic more than twice." What does that mean? If someone has already been elected as President of the Republic twice, he can no longer be a candidate for the post, and this way, as you have formulated, it turns out that someone who has already been President of the Republic has been able to run twice for the third time. But then the question arises what happens if he is elected for the third time, and then it turns out that the choice will not be valid and that the choice cannot be recognised. Article 14 paragraph 2: 'The term of office of the President of the Republic shall cease when the resignation arrives in the National Assembly'. I really don't know what that word "comes" means. "The resignation arrives in the National Assembly." Instead, you could have defined yourself as two legal solutions: "when the resignation is received by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia" or "when the resignation of the President of the Republic is accepted in the Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This is completely unclear when the term of office of the President of the Republic ceases. He says, "When resignation arrives in the National Assembly." The resignation may be accidentally thrown at the entrance of the National Assembly. Does this mean that she arrived if the president of the National Assembly had not met her and had not been admitted to the Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Article 16 Indeed, Mr. Milan Markovic obviously has a problem with the category of time as a philosophical category. "The President of the Republic cannot expire as long as the state of war or emergency continues, but extends by force of the Constitution until three months have elapsed since the end of the war or emergency." First, the mandate is a period of time and no one has the power to stop time. So the mandate can expire. The second thing is that the mandate that stands out can be extended. This formulation is pointless. Turns out the mandate can't run out, but then what's to be extended to? In doing so, the Constitution itself is clear, i.e. it clearly states that what the bill says is wrong. Namely, see Article 116(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "If the term of office of the President of the Republic expires during war or emergency, it shall be extended... '". So the mandate and how it can expire, it's some real time category, but if it expires, then it can be extended. I guess that's what the government was trying to say. This is how it turns out that the government has the power to stop time. "The President of the Republic whose term of office has been extended due to war or emergency has all competences as well as before the extension of the term of office." One totally unnecessary provision that only burdens the text of the bill. Well, it is clear that, if the President of the Republic is extended, he has the same rights and obligations as before his term is extended. Article 17: "If the President of the Republic resigns, is dismissed or prevented from performing his post, it shall be replaced by the President of the National Assembly for the longest three months". Since this law elaborates constitutional provisions on the President of the Republic, it would be good to say "when the President of the Republic is considered to be prevented from performing his duties", so what is the time period when we can realistically say that the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duties. Is that 15 days, is that 30 days, six months, etc. With such an inaccurate formulation, you open up the possibility that this standard is applied differently in practice, depending on whether it suits you who is the President of the Republic or does not suit you. Article 17(2) That's where you regulate what kind of authority the president of the National Assembly has when he replaces the President of the Republic. The constitution is clear in this respect. When the President of the National Assembly replaces the President of the Republic who is prevented from performing his duties, he shall have all the rights and obligations as well as the President of the Republic. However, there is something else in the bill. You list the tasks that the President of the National Assembly can do as he replaces the President of the Republic, and therefore withdraws from Article 120(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "When the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duty or his term of office ends before the time he is elected, it is replaced by the President of the National Assembly." It replaces him, therefore, in all affairs. Where do you get the right to tell him that he only replaces him in these and those jobs? What's gonna happen to those other jobs? Who's gonna do these jobs? And you didn't see that coming in the bill. One provision that is truly insane: ''The President of the National Assembly that replaces the President of the Republic is obliged to... "Every passed law declares an order." What happens if it's obvious that the law is unconstitutional? Why are you forcing the President of the National Assembly to declare by force a law that is clear to everyone that is against the constitution, and otherwise the President of the Republic has the right to refuse to declare the law if he considers it anti-constitutional? Why are you forcing the President of the National Assembly to step on the Constitution, and you have previously given the President of the Republic the right not to declare the law if he does not consider it in accordance with the Constitution? Article 19. Getting the law back on track. Among other things, it is said: ''The President of the Republic may, with a written explanation, return to the National Assembly the passed law to re-determination if he considers that... When the law is passed, the procedure prescribed for the adoption of the law is not respected or that the law does not regulate an area in an appropriate manner’. This is a direct interference in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the National Assembly that assesses whether the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected or not. Where is the right of the President of the Republic to tell him that the law is legally valid in everything, but you have violated in the National Assembly the procedure for his vote and I will not declare that law an order? How can the President of the Republic interfere with a purely procedural issue that must be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly? This second part is even funnier, he says he can refuse to declare the law if he thinks "the law doesn't regulate an area properly". What does that mean? This means that the President of the Republic is free to assess whether the law is good or not in a material sense. Well, if I like the law, I will declare it, and if I don't like it, I won't, because I believe that the matter governed by this law is not properly arranged. What if the President of the Republic isn't a lawyer? By what criteria will he assess whether one substance is well arranged or not? Article 25. Here you are again making that mistake you already made when you voted the Government Act, when you voted the Constitutional Court Act. Again, only some legal acts will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Once again, someone will decide on their own: this act I want to publish, this act will not be published. And you say, "In the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia," they publish... and other legal acts for which the President of the Republic decides to publish'. So he's the one who's going to wonder what legal act is going to be published and who isn't. Where's democracy, where's the public of work, where are any European standards you're so fond of? Of course, both laws have many shortcomings. I don't want to take precious time away from my colleagues from the SRS, but I simply have to refer to the election law for the President of the Republic. I really do not understand why the right to elect the President of the Republic is limited only to citizens who have residence in the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you. Several months ago, your president of the DS, and unfortunately, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, Croatia, apologized to Croats for alleged crimes committed by Serbs during the 1990s. Here, yesterday was the election in Croatia. Every Croatian, or every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, on a globe of land, wherever he lives, from the United States via Croatia to Australia, has the right to vote for the President of the Republic of Croatia. Then why don't you look up to those you apologize to? Why do you restrict the right of our citizens who live abroad, who have no residence in the Republic of Serbia, to vote for the President of the Republic? It's clear why -- you're afraid of election results. In the end, I have to look back on what my colleague Balint Pastor from SVM said. A time has passed when members of the national minorities were afraid of the SRS. The SRS is open to all Vojvodina citizens and all Serbian citizens. The strongest foothold the SRS has today in Vojvodina. We in the SRS believe that elections for the President of the Republic must not be censuses, so that the right to Hungarian votes exclusively has only SVM or any other Hungarian party. I have proposed by amendment that the candidate's proposal should support not 10,000, but 50,000 voters are in the spirit of what is called civil democracy. Where does it say that only Hungarian parties have the right to vote in Hungarian? Where does it say that an SVM candidate's proposal should only be supported by Hungarians? Why doesn't Mr. Pastor support the candidate for the President of the Republic, if it is Hungarian, address the Serbs living in Vojvodina, so he'll get not 50,000 but 100,000 votes? Why build new feuds in Vojvodina? Why share citizens at all costs? If you're Hungarian, you have to vote for SVM? And we in the SRS right now in Vojvodina, in purely Hungarian environments, are winning a large number of votes. We also have a Hungarian MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have Hungarian MPs in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. There is no need for members of national minorities, nor should the Hungarians, to fear the SRS. It's been a while since you were able to scare members of the national minorities with the SRS. Some of the most faithful SRS voters are Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Roma and others living in the areas of Vojvodina. This amendment absolutely does not affect their rights, on the contrary, affirms the basic democratic right, which is that every man can vote for the list, or for the candidate whom he chooses, without being forced by his national tutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11800	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The Messenger of the People is the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade, and then the Messenger of the people, Zlatan Jovanovic. The remaining time is 28 minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11801	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, for the sake of the public, a few opening remarks. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic has irrationally available time for MPs. For today, a decision has been made on the proposal of the head of the DS parliamentary group to discuss two very important draft laws in a single debate, the election of the president and the president of the Republic of Serbia. I really think that this is unrecorded, that these two laws are brought together in a single debate and that then the MPs, as could be heard today during the day, who have a serious intention of seriously discussing these laws, cannot identify which law to comment on, which member of the law to comment on, and then it must be done on such a very superficial basis. And that's why tomorrow the National Assembly won't work. So, we must certainly wait for those 24 hours to discuss the amendments and it would be perfectly normal if we had done one law today, tomorrow the second, the next day of the amendment for one, the next day of the amendment for another, and nothing would be lost in the time it takes Oliver Dulic to call the presidential elections. But it's not the only failure of Mr Oliver Dulic, nor the majority of the assembly, nor these two texts of the laws we're discussing today. You see, in front of us, we have a proposal for one law and another, where it says, among other things, to propose to the National Assembly that they be brought in by emergency procedure. In the explanation - Reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure - among other things, it is said: "In order for the elections to be called as soon as possible and to be maintained, it is necessary to adopt this law by emergency procedure and thereby prevent possible adverse consequences by the work of the state authorities." Meanwhile, the urgency of these proposals has been removed and we are discussing them in a regular procedure. Now a question for the President of Parliament and for the Prime Minister, who is currently absent, or most of the day absent: what are the adverse consequences of the work of the state authorities because these laws are not being discussed by an emergency procedure, as the Government has proposed in time? Of course, we don't have the answer to this question. When it comes to these two laws, it is necessary to note that we are still in an unconstitutional state, that we still do not have all the laws that were necessary for the National Assembly to pass under the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, and that such an acceleration of the procedure has not yet been completed under the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Today, one of the fellow representatives of the congregation’s majority heard that it was no problem to bring together the debate on these two important laws because, as he said, it was only technical laws. That's really amazing. The Law on the President of the Republic and the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic - Technical Laws. Then I really don't know what your essential laws are if these two are technical. Also here, a few MPs of the congregation's majority have heard something that, I tell you, can only be said by a man who is absolutely without political morality. To say 'one President - Always President' and to point out that this law on the President of the Republic speaks of a very important role and of the importance of the President of the Republic, it is really terrible if it is heard from the mouth of the DOS representative, one of the buds of the Dossian Revolution, which the President of the Republic of Serbia and President Slobodan Milosevic kidnapped, took to The Hague and allowed to be killed in The Hague. And then you talk about how important the role of the President of the Republic is – it is indeed, at the very least, immoral, respected colleagues. We of the SRS have submitted quite a number of amendments to both one and the other proposal of these two laws. Indeed, our intention was to regulate your laws as much as we could to make them applicable, not to, Mr. Milan Markovic, as with the laws on local self-government and local elections, when we pointed out all the shortcomings of these laws, that is, when they were at the stage of the proposal and when they were discussed in this Parliament about them, when we pointed out that the work of local self-government would be paralysed because of such bad laws, then the assembly majority did not want to hear us, and even today we have problems, from the first day the local elections were held under that law, to today, you will agree, we have a large number of local self-government problems, because the law that was originally known to be inapplicable. That is why we warn you to edit these two laws as much as possible by accepting the amendments of the SRS, and you will receive at least applicable laws and in accordance with the Constitution. Do you see how long and how far you go with these laws? Now I'm talking about the bill of elections for the President of the Republic. With this bill, Mr. Markovic, you are removing one of the basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, which is the electoral right. You say in the explanation: "Then it is prescribed that the first elections for the President of the Republic to be held under the new Constitution have the right to vote by those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are enrolled in the electoral lists according to the criteria used for elections for MPs held on 21 January 2007. " Imagine further what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says: "It is the ambition of two republican authorities elected in the direct elections -- the National Assembly and the President of the Republic -- to choose from the same electoral corps." This is really amazing. The time difference in the election, one and the other, is at least a year. So you predicted that all persons who became adult after January 21st, 2007 couldn't vote. You predicted that everyone who died in the meantime would remain on the ballot. How do you expect regular elections? And not to mention, for seven years now, it hasn't occurred to you to finally make a unique voter list. Before the 2000 elections, you were all-in support of the RIK members of the SRS, who fought as hard as possible to fight for a single polling list. Of course, this is not the only case where you, as an opposition, speak one thing, and as a government, you speak completely differently. I don't know what law I'm talking about now because I've got five or six minutes left, but I'm going to say a few sentences about the law, as you say, about "elections" for the President of the Republic. We have suggested that you change that too because it is the law of choice, not the election of the President of the Republic. Here, in several of the first members, we have drawn attention to the need for you to comply with the Constitution. A large number of members of both the law and the other draft are just the unsuspectingly prescribed members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and thus, Mr Milan Markovic, the laws are not being written. The constitution exists as a framework, and the laws develop matter. You can't just rewrite the Constitution and say, "Here, we gave you the law." Two of the most characteristic things are about the election law for the president. First, in Article 10, you have predicted: "The candidate's proposal can only be submitted if he is supported by at least 10,000 voters by his signatures certified by the court." With the amendment, the SRS proposes to be 50,000 voters for seriousness. Because, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic said this morning, we finally have two options that are really in Serbia, and let's see, who can't provide 50,000 certified voters who support the candidate, I don't know how such a candidate can appear in the elections. The next thing we think is very important is contained in Article 11, where we are talking about submitting a proposal for a candidate. Among other things, we suggested that, with the other documentation, the president's candidate be assured of his medical condition from the Military Academy. If you would accept this amendment and if we had this document in support of the documentation of each candidate, then we would not be in the situation in which we are today -- that the entire nation is concerned and that the SRS is asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to get information with the VMA on the health status of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who, unfortunately, could have a very negative impact on the state of Serbia and on the Serbian national interests, especially when it comes to negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Please, Mrs. Radeta, let us take care. Mr. Albian, I'm not listening to you at all, I'm saying what I have. (President: But you must listen to me.) I don't have to listen to you. You have to listen to me. I am talking about the concern of the SRS and the concern of the nation for the health situation of Boris Tadic, who, unfortunately, can very negatively affect Serbia's survival.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11802	The health status of the President of the Republic is excellent, as you could see for yourself on TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11803	I didn't ask you, Mr. Albianic. Don't joke about serious things. On Friday, we asked the Prime Minister, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, and we ask him to obtain some documentation with the VMA. I'm very serious and we're very serious. As a man, it's very difficult for me to talk about Boris Tadic as a man, but when I talk about the President of the Republic, there's really no emotion there. You allow yourself to joke about the health condition of Boris Tadic, as you waved colorful balloons on the day of the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic. You have long shown that you respect neither your functions nor your officials, Mr. Albianic. So please, let me do my job nicely, and you can give me a warning -- that's what's left for you as a possibility, according to the Rules of Procedure. There are still, of course, objections to this law, but unfortunately there's not enough time since you've combined these two points of the agenda. I can't find the member now, but I thought I'd comment on members of the household of the President of the Republic, where you left out to write that it refers to family household members, because if you say 'household members', then we really don't know whether you mean the wife, the president's children or whether you mean housewives, Chevalians, drivers, etc. Because they are also members of the household, all the people living in that household, and the family household is regulated by another law, and that should be taken care of. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic has the most prescribed provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is not worked out properly and we have tried to do so through our amendments. We hope you will accept the amendments so that you can regulate these laws as much as possible. There's a lot of inaccuracies in these suggestions of yours, and one and the other laws, a lot of some of the pausal provisions that can't be interpreted properly. Even the date of entry into force, you didn't do it right. You have forgotten that Article 5 must come into force another day, not when the whole law, Mr. Minister, but you will see, I suppose, in the amendment, I am talking about the law on the President of the Republic, because this Article 5 applies until the provisions of Article 45 of this Law are passed, that is your obligation. But I can see how you're sighing, that you haven't even looked at our amendments yet, so I hope when you see them, that you'll... Milan Markovic, from the scene: Yes. Well, you're not. As soon as you act like that, I can see that you haven't, I'm afraid, even read the law, and you certainly haven't. I hope in the meantime, since tomorrow the Assembly won't be in session, and you will find time to read the amendments and the law, so that in particular we can talk seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11804	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. You'll get your word, Mr. Batic. Allow me, just a little patience, since this is the last speaker, I won't conclude a principle debate, everyone will have the opportunity to use the right. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some MPs today, here, in their address to this bill, resented Mr. Minister for his half-hour exposure this morning to read the proposed laws. I don't blame him for that because that's not the problem. The problem is that Mr. Secretary obviously read this law for the first time this morning. In fact, if you carefully read what's written here, it's obvious that this was written by some low-class State Department official, who wasn't professional enough, who didn't have the will to do anything, at least formally, correct. The proposed text of this first law, on the President of the Republic, is formally incorrect, to a large extent. I'll try, in the time I have, on a few examples to prove it. The first and general remark is that the writer of this proposal is inconsistencies. In fact, in a large number of provisions, the Constitution was prescribed, literally the provisions of the Constitution were prescribed, so that several members of the Constitution would be given up, and only the provisions of the Constitution were called upon. In particular, in Article 3, which refers to the powers of the President of the Republic, paragraph 1, reads: 'The powers of the President of the Republic are laid down by the Constitution'. The previous two members are literally prescribed by the Constitution, in order to say in the second position of this third member: 'The Constitution of a President of the Republic may be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly permits or if it imposes their nature'. Well, it is this law that needs to work out what the Constitution has foreseen as jurisdiction, obligations, rights and duties of the President of the Republic. What new or other law will develop the authority of the president, if not that which is the parent law for the post of President of the Republic of Serbia? Each of the following members is literally copied from the Constitution. In some cases, only the permutation, or order of words, has been changed, but the essence remains, of course, the same. I will also refer you to article 14, which speaks of the resignation of the President of the Republic. And here, again, is the Constitution prescribed. The colleagues have already commented on the second position of this member, which reads: "The mandate of the President of the Republic ceases when the resignation arrives in the National Assembly." The term, which is not from legal practice, is not in place and should have been dealt with in another way. But what's controversial to me is that there's little here that seems to me, far from the Constitution. In the Constitution, Article 117 speaks of the resignations of the President of the Republic and the position 2 reads: 'The day of the resignation, the President of the Republic shall cease his term', and under the law, the President of the Republic shall have an obligation, in Article 14 paragraph 3, reads: 'He is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned'. This means that when the President of the Republic, through means of public information, addressed the citizens of Serbia and said he resigned, his mandate ceased at the moment. There is no longer any need to send anything to the National Assembly, especially to formulate it this way, as formulated in Article 14. Also, Article 17, which speaks of replacing the President of the Republic in cases where he is prevented from performing his post, states 1st, "If the President of the Republic resigns, is resolved or prevented from performing his post, shall be replaced by the President of the National Assembly for the longest three months." Then, in the second or third position, the powers which the President of the Assembly may exercise during the period of the month as he replaces the President of the Republic but is not prescribed in Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What happens after those three months? Why and that position of Article 3 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not prescribed in this law? Why is it not said what will happen after the end of those three months, will it call the elections if the President of the Republic is still unable to perform his post? So there was no consistency in writing this law, formal consistency. If the Constitution was followed, it should be washed and respected from the first to the last member. If the provisions of the Constitution are to be rewritten - to be rewritten, where they need to be worked out - to work out. And not like this -- in some members it's literally prescribed, in some we've done some permutation, so we've kept the essence and changed the form of a member, and somewhere we haven't even prescribed the provisions of the Constitution concerning the functions of the President of the Republic. As far as the essence is concerned, I will only list two things that are essential and essential to this law, at least in the opinion of the SRS MPs. The first objection concerns the proposal of a candidate for Prime Minister. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has already talked about it in his presentation. We are trying to simplify our amendment to the National Assembly, of course we expect a response from the promoter, to simplify this procedure and to regulate it legally so that there is nothing ambiguous about it, and that the political crisis that may arise after the election is shortened, means that it is the shortest possible. We have examples, after the last parliamentary elections, when we were without the government for a few months. So, three full months after the assembly was established, we were without the government, and if we only remember that the government of Vojislav Kostunica was technically a few months before the elections, then you will realize that we were literally half a year without the government in the Republic of Serbia. If we can do it for half a year, then we can do it for a whole year and then we don't need the government. Our wish with this amendment is that this potential political crisis that can arise after the election is cut short. In other words, what do we want? We want the law to define precisely who is assigned the mandate for the government's composition. If the first term of office, which proves or demonstrates to the President that he has a sufficient number of MPs to elect the Government, fails within 15 days, then, by law, the term of office shall be assigned to the representative of the largest parliamentary group and given to him by seven days. If he fails either, the mandate or the possibility gets a representative of the second party, which is the second-largest option, by the number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. If he doesn't make it either, it means he's not a full month away. After that, elections are being debated. The story's over. No guesses, no trade, no endless duration of these negotiations on the government's composition. One more thing that I think is essential to this proposal for a law on the president. This is Chapter VI. The Secretary-General of the President of the Republic. There's something here that's not fully worked out. A body called the Secretary General, but also the President of the Republic's Office, has been established. These are two new services, which are not legally sufficiently defined. In fact, it cannot be left to the President of the Republic, regardless of his choice by citizens in direct elections, to make these two services in the way this law provides, means without any legal control. The law must specify, at least indicatively, how many employees can have one service and another service, how many advisors there can be, after all, and the President of the Republic. We now have a situation in Serbia that some ministers have a large number of advisers. I remember when we were in government, our ministers didn't have any advisors. They had advisors as employees of the ministry, but they didn't bring people from their own parties to be pro-forms advisers, to get paid there, to put them in the state administration, and to find arrests in that way. So, I don't think this is a good thing, that this is where it's supposed to be specified. Even if you consider that the proposed laws and working bodies that ad hoc may be someone here, or the President of the Republic, to establish for certain tasks, then you realize how many people will be hired only around the President of the Republic. And all of this, of course, will be on the back of Serbian citizens because all of this has to be paid out of the budget, and you probably know that public spending in Serbia is terribly large and that we as a state are not able to finance it all. I didn't mention the People's Office, which already exists. It is not mentioned here, which is not good if you intend to keep it, to remain as such, and it is another one of these costs that goes to the burden of Serbian citizens. A few more sentences only on the bill of elections for the President of the Republic. I'm just going to look back at a few things that, in our opinion, are essential to this proposal. In fact, we have taken this very seriously and we propose to our amendments some fundamental changes, very serious changes, because our goal is to keep these laws going. Namely, the impression, both of which is mine and the MP of the SRS, is that these laws were made for one-time use. So now the election is done, and then we'll see what we're going to do and how we move on; it depends, of course, on the result of the election. The first remark is Article 10, i.e. the signatures of voters who support the candidacy. We proposed an amendment to make it 50,000 instead of 10,000 so far. We are not saying this because we are currently the strongest party in Serbia. We are talking about the fact that the president's position is extremely serious and that should be given such a tone of seriousness. No offense to anyone, but no one can run for President of the Republic. So someone who has the support of a large number of voters behind him -- should run for office, and whoever does not get fewer votes in the election than he has handed over -- he should not go into all of this at all and just blur and cause trouble in the election campaign. The second thing that is also essential is in Article 11. Our intention is to attach, in addition to the documentation that goes along with the candidacy, the assurance of the state of health. I think it's quite logical, most logical. Well, any job in Serbia needs confidence. I guess it's normal for one who is the first man in Serbia to contribute such a belief that he is healthy, so that he can perform that function in a quality way. Finally, in Article 18, when it comes to elections, i.e. when the voting process is completed, how to choose or to whom the term of office of the President of the Republic is assigned. Here, in this proposal, an existing state has been retained. So, he's being held up so-called. The two-round election system, which means that the two candidates, who receive the highest number of votes in the first round, go to the second round of elections. The formal remark is that it's called repeating the election here. It's not a repeat, it's the second round of the election cycle. But the essential point of our remark is that we feel that we should break up with this practice to go into two electoral circles. There's a lot of arguments about it, a lot of reasons why we're suggesting it. We think it's enough to get the election done in one lap. We think it's enough to be just one lap and that the candidate who won the largest number of votes in that first round becomes the president of the Republic automatically. I think it's democratic because citizens in the first round decide on their sympathy for candidates, and what's called the second round, it's after some inter-party trade, calculations, etc., where we're just wasting time and money. Think about how much money it takes to hold that second round, how many polling stations, then a dozen members of the election boards, then a commission, etc. I'm just asking you to seriously consider these amendments to the SRS, especially these essential ones. Let's try to fix this a little bit and let this law take some time in Serbia, not just for one-time use, for these upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11806	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. We no longer have a word on the speakers' lists. Whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups or the MP who did not exercise his right under Article 93 want the word. Rules of Procedure? Well, we have to wait, Mr. Radovic, first Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Batic. First Elvira Kovac, by Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Based on Mr. Alexander Martinovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11807	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, answered the line, Mr. Martinovic, a good half an hour ago, and in the meantime, a member of 101 was injured. It's the Rules of Procedure because I didn't get the word right after the speaker was exposed. I would like, for the sake of the public, to clarify some of the half-truths presented by Mr Martinovic, concerning the voters of members of the national minorities. As we all know, the general fact is that in 2004, Mr Boris Tadic won 270,000 votes, in fact, the voices of members of the national minorities, have identified who will be president of Serbia. Since the presidential elections are nearing us, burning under our feet, now the two biggest candidates, Mr Nikolic and of course the SRS, as well as the Democratic Party, have realised that the issues of national minorities should be addressed. As it has been so far, we're getting empty promises again, we're being offered towers and cities. We're interested in what concrete actions will be taken. Mr. Pastor Balint, mentioned in Mr. Martinovic's presentation, spoke of the proposed amendment, which is said to be accepted, which is really pointless, because, on the principle of democratisation, each political party, at least in the first round, in such important elections as the Serbian president's election, should have its candidate. Thus, four Hungarian parties will have their own candidate. We believe that members of the Hungarian national minority should have someone to vote for. Of course, it's pointless to ask for 50,000 signatures. You all know we're a smaller political party. It really is pointless to change that number when 10,000 has already been proposed in the law. Please listen to me. By the way, by saying that in the first round, we will not give blanco support to Mr Tadic again, we did not say by automation that we would support Mr Nikolic. With what you're proposing, if that amendment is accepted, we could actually organise a second round right now with the two biggest candidates, which is really pointless if we're talking about democracy. I also wanted to refer to the fact that you mentioned that you had members of national minorities in your ranks, both in the party and among the MPs. Well, that's what DS talks about a lot, but now I'd like to look back on what you said. I would like to see, since you really do have a representative who is Hungarian nationality, that he once answers the word and makes a concrete proposal for this speaker that really concerns the interest of the Hungarian nation. Of course we don't expect it from you, and since we are authentic representatives of the Hungarian national minority, I would like to see you support at least one of our specific amendments and requests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11808	Thank you. I apologize to Parliamentarian Elvira Kovac because she has arrived late for permission to speak. Are you asking to vote for the President's injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you very much. National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11809	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 200, and 226. Rules of Procedure. The other day, I mentioned a problem over which the government is lurking, and it concerns the military reserves of the Toplice County. It is permitted that these people, who responded to the call of the Fatherland, did not desert themselves, did not hide themselves, are now reminded of those sad characters from the parable of Lazarevic 'All these people will be gilded' or - all these things will be returned to you by God. So they're looking for what's their elemental right, their journals, because at the call of the country they left their homes, their estates, their families, their jobs, and then when they're looking for what's their right, then nobody cares. Then you've got one completely random court practice. Some have sued, in fact thousands have sued, in Prokuplje almost 3,000, in Kursumlia nearly 2,000, Blace, Kruševac, Nis, but also across Serbia. Some lawsuits have been passed, verdicts made, diaries charged. A municipality president, from the ranks of the ruling coalition, charged his war logs. The others are harassed when they see that it will go away. Then the Civilian Department of the Supreme Court comes out with some attitude about the incompetence of certain courts, about possible obsolescence, although it's not compensation for damages, it's debt. So, we have a completely chaotic state: somewhere it's scheduled, somewhere it's not scheduled, it's decided, it's thrown away, some have charged, some haven't charged. It's an ugly picture of Serbia. Why? Because it only takes a little goodwill, a little morale, a little respect for those people, because they're not former reservers, they're reservers maybe future ones. We hope there will be no pointless wars to be waged by the generals who have lost all wars, but have won all the privileges and benefits. So let's see, since from Kursumli and lower than Kursumlia there are people's MPs who fake every day and fake travel orders, pretend to travel and return, and charge thousands of euros, and they squat in rain, ice, and snow. Latest information: The government buys 40 luxury cars. What do they need it for? Here's a fresh example. A delegation from the National Assembly went to New York the other day. Ladies and gentlemen, nine members of the delegation, of which the President of the Assembly - two advisers, two bodyguards. What's Dulic doing in New York with bodyguards? Who makes who crazy? I was, by circumstances, a minister in that government in those difficult times. Never, anywhere on dozens of travel abroad has it occurred to me to run a single bodyguard, and the risks were much higher. The representatives, Djelic is walking, he is holding Boris Tadic by the hand, so that everyone can see him, to see that he survived the Assembly, to open shopping centres, car salons. He better have received those reserves, those people who are looking for a crumb - to meet their demands and to have Serbia pay their debt to them because they have fulfilled their debt to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11810	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11811	I didn't attend when Mr. Martinovic said something that Mrs. or Miss Elvira resented. But our attitude is principled and you don't have to carry it here the way you imagine it. So we don't remember minority members just before the election. That's where you turn us off. Please include Mr Tadic in this freely. But we don't. We never had any agreement with you about, as a political party, supporting our candidates or our list. You've always had reason not to vote for radicals. You gave those reasons to the public. They were mostly falsified. We are some kind of threat, Lord, to your people, so don't let your people vote for us. One day, Serbia will be a stable and peaceful country, when the basis for a candidate vote will not be its national membership at all. You know that very well. You will be able to trade as authentic representatives of the Hungarian people for a while, you say Hungarian nations, Hungarian people in Serbia, but we are all representatives of the Hungarian people. I would accept criticism at the expense of our Hungarian MPs if you said yes, we have proposed this and that measure for our people, your MP did not support it. I ask you, as an authentic representative of the Hungarian people, when did you propose something for the Hungarian people in this assembly? When? And when did this come to the rejection of the MPs of the SRS? We can very easily establish co-operation. We don't need your votes if you think the Hungarians in Serbia should vote for someone else. Let them vote at will, just don't say they'll miss the hair on their heads if they vote for radicals, or if the radicals win, or, God forbid, what you use most, that our Hungarians are not real Hungarians. Hungarian radicals - these are some Hungarians with a mistake. Slovaks are radicals with error. And there's more and more of them, and you know it. In villages where we have never had voices, where only minority members live, we now win a large number of votes. So we've been able to do something by our actions to remove this burden that you're constantly loading us. It would be a lot easier if you asked for cooperation from everyone. A large censorship is 50,000 voters and their support for the candidate for President of the Republic, but it is not easy to run. It's not a dance. Come on with 500 signatures, we'll all be candidates for the President of the Republic. We say this gesture is a very serious act. So, between 50,000 people, you find yourself running for office, so that's a great act. And only the big ones can count on success and only the big ones can compete. Here, if you have an amendment for national minorities with 2,000 signatures to be candidates, I'm willing to accept it, but I haven't seen that amendment. As you, for example, brought 3,000 signatures to a list representing national minorities, and it is not in the law, so shut up the Constitutional Court, silence the Republic Election Commission, and we don't call you too much. There, well, three thousand, you can't collect any more, you're not organized. And you're organized to call, that day, to go out to vote just to avoid beating Serbian radicals. By arguing with the SRS, by making up an argument over a pay phone, you don't get too far. You'd be more cooperative. You would have done more if you had come out here and said: I offered the radicals (I apologize, I finish), I offered the radicals to support us here and that idea or measure, they turned us down. Then I would accept that you always resent the radicals, and like this, when there was nothing to support, don't blame us. And our doors are always open to co-operation with minority members, especially members of the Hungarian national minority. Everyone you've worked with so far has betrayed you, cheated and sold you out. The rest of you are radicals, but all Serbia has left is radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11812	The People's Messenger Jovan Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Elvira Kovač, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11813	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am a man of the minority people, from the Roma community. As for the minority people, not only the Roma community but more minority nations, the possibility to integrate into politics is given to them right in the SRS. This is true, we can't manipulate. Our rights, acquired in our country, stemmed from the law and the Constitution of our country, and that respects the Serbian Radical Party. She respects the rights of the minority people. That's why we join this party and support it. That's why no one can say there's some manipulation. To tell you the truth, as a member of the national minority of Roma, the Serbian Radical Party has done so much that I cannot thank the SRS and its leadership. They gave us 1,200,000 marks in Zemun, so they gave us a normal life, which is sewerage, plumbing, asphalting, electrification. You've ruined our houses, you've shut down our televisions, you don't give us the right to what we have, and now you say national minorities. National minorities will vote for the Serbian Radical Party as much as they think they should and as much respect. I am now speaking personally of the Roma national minority. No party has given us the right to integrate into politics. Here's what, wherever the SRS wins in the local frameworks, Roma will be the vice president of the municipality and will be a member of the municipal council or the municipal council. That's what no one's offering us in this country, offering us an SRS. We know he's being manipulated. Mr. Micunović and all my dear friends, I'm just saying, what have you done to us? Why do you minimize the Roma people? Why don't you give us the rights we need? What are we in this country? Please, the majority people and the majority political parties holding power in this country have shut down our two televisions in the country. Why? They don't give us the right to our culture, to our language, to our, please, reporting, and to our media. Well, then how are we gonna vote for you? I specifically say 25,000 Roma and all 25,000 Roma in Zemun vote for the SRS. I'm telling you: across Serbia, the Roma will vote 90% for the SRS because the SRS deserves it. We'd vote for you, too, but you don't respect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11814	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11815	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, I've applied for a replica and I really don't want to abuse this pay phone for some personal argument and bickering, as the people might say. I just want to thank you for proving once again that the SRS is making half the truth about this pay phone, and that's how it tries to deceive the people, so I want to explain some things. First of all, for the list, the Grand Duchy of Hungarians collected 10,000 signatures. We don't mind leaving a figure of 10,000 in the presidential election, as the bill says. So much for that. As for our proposals, since the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians has three MPs in the Serbian Parliament again, we have proposed nine amendments. Mr. Nikolic, since May and so far you've had nine times to press the green button, both you and... I don't expect all of you, the whole Serbian Radical Party, that's okay, but your representatives of national minorities, as well as representatives of national minorities in the Democratic Party, where there are more. We have proposed amendments concerning all minority members and for those amendments could be voted by all representatives. No one, both from your MP club and from the other assembly club, none of these illusions, let's call, minority representatives, has supported our amendments. So, you've had your chance and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11816	The People's Messenger Veljko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić, and the People's Messenger Vladan Batic. I'm sorry, Mr. Beard, we have to wait. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11817	Mr. Vice President, Article 226. I would just, since Mr Tomislav Nikolic is likely to answer to you, you've confused that something. This is where we voted for the amendments, and the amendments are something else, and maybe we don't like those amendments. You didn't explain it well. I wanted to say, since I was denied my right on Friday to an MP's question from the Borski District. I wanted to ask Minister Eggs about social issues. How? Rasim Ljajic, right? Well, please. What are you laughing at? I don't know, maybe I'm wrong last name, I'm sorry. The question for him was, since I was in contact with him and he promised me he'd go to Bor to solve a very big problem. There, in the Borski County, people are waiting for a pension, on average, a year. So, about eight months away from getting a pension, he's happy, and all that for over a year, it's a disaster. I talked to him, and he promised me we'd go together, because I was the first one in that region to point out that problem. However, he went there, formed the Municipal Committee of the Democratic Party and did not invite me. Yesterday I found out he was and he went around. So, not just that... Yes, that would explain better what he was doing there. I wanted to say that one minister who promised, I'm like a good Serbian radical and as a good host, first I wanted to go with him, so I wouldn't do it from the pay phone, so we could do it all the right way. Here, look at what we are and how we can now come up with such questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11818	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11819	It's really pointless to accuse us of not voting for some of your amendments, we didn't want any better for your people. For the nine amendments you have submitted in your long, hard, hard work. During that time, we have submitted over a thousand amendments, which we think would have been better for all citizens of Serbia if they had been accepted. Have you voted for one of our amendments? You're not for one. As soon as you see that the Serbian Radical Party has proposed, you are even pressing red, out of spite. So here we can do it differently completely. We offer full open cooperation to the political party you represent here. To exchange visits to the top, to attend cameras, to tell each other that we imagine future life in a new, much nicer and better Serbia, and then to tell us what you resent, what we didn't meet, and what we are, to introduce us to our plans, to see what you're asking of the state that could be regulated by law. If you can't write it yourself, let's write it ourselves. I am really ready to fully open the story of the situation in Serbia from the point of view of the rights of members of national minorities. I prefer talking to you here than in Strasbourg. There's a lie, and here we look ourselves in the eye. You can't make up here that we're harassing someone, that the police are beating up, beating up hundreds of members of the Hungarian people, that you're being discriminated, because here we say, and where, and what is it called, at what time, what day? It's easy in Strasbourg. There you also have MPs from Hungary who are very happy to take care of your dangerous rights, and then you cannot fight there. What do I have to talk to that Nemeta, who came from Budapest, about Hungarian rights in Vojvodina when he doesn't even know if they're compromised? With you, I'd be very happy to do it in Strasbourg, and here I'd like it even more, because the citizens here see who's telling the truth and who's not. So, I urge you once again, not just you, representatives of all national minorities who feel threatened, to come and talk about what rights they are at risk and how the SRS can help them exercise their rights. Well, if we don't help you, and you do for the pay phone, then say, "Here, this is what radicals are like." All these flat-rate stories, these attacks on the parties you've been supporting for 15 years, they're degutant. How come you don't sober up the first year, like after the second election, like after the third round? As long as your party president, if you're in that party, I don't know anymore, you've split up, been Vice President of the government or something like that, you've kept your mouth shut. The rights are threatened in Vojvodina. You're in power there. Let's talk about it. Who in Vojvodina, in which you are in power, does not allow you to hire your own people in state institutions? What's this man's name? What's the name of your people looking for jobs in institutions in the environments they live in, so they didn't get it? Which Serb stopped their employment? I can't wait for these to fall out of power because they threaten minorities, but I would like Serbia to be clean. If the minister has compromised minority rights, it is known to be called the minister, it is not Serbia again. And this is how the Democrats do not work, nor do the radicals work. So who does? Who in this Serbia is good for you? The one who would help you. Well, then give us a chance to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11820	The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, and then by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11821	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Miss Fecketti, the SPS has its name, it's not called Nobody. You said no one voted for our amendments. According to our initiative, we supported your amendment on how to establish the National Council, the jurisdiction was given to Mr Markovic, though reluctantly, but he got - based on that amendment. And two more. But if you're disgusted by the SPS voices, then that's what you need to say publicly. Therefore, the SPS does not vote in favour of legislative projects or amendments based on who submitted them, but on the essence of legislative projects or amendments. We voted for the essence, and I must say that we had the pleasure of voting for that amendment because our political programme says the same thing that you suggested. I won't take any more of your time. As far as you're concerned, it applies to everyone else. We never speculate when we support some amendment. We vote for him because he matches our understanding of a particular problem and we'll do it in the future, no matter what your position on our voice is. It'll be recorded that we voted for it, and if you don't like those voices, then that's another story and somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11822	The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11823	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 27 and Article 77. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, concerned about the fate and future of Kosovo and Metohija, I have repeatedly requested that a special session of this parliament be scheduled, whose only item of the agenda would be Kosovo and Metohija. It is a shame that parliaments of other countries and not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are discussing this. I also asked the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to schedule a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, especially after an unkind event, a diversion or sabotage, or who knows what happened to our colleague Stojanka Petkovic. There is no session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, but that's why we read from newspapers a variety of humiliating proposals - Hong Kong, Holland Islands, will be followed by Fokland, and Galapagos, we will listen to everything and everything. Today is negotiated in Baden-Baden, and he is known only for his casino and for his roulette. As this authority behaves, it is obvious that Kosovo has been put on roulette. The Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, on some issues about the money from Serbia's budget and the money from the Kosovo and Metohija budget, answered me rather unsettlingly. That's not the right answer. It is so blancoly prescribed that it deals with Serbia's budget, and it was directed by me, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, to address UNMIK as a national MP. UNMIK is funding, according to Minister Samardzic, only temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Minister, would you like to chat a little more, so I don't get used to it? (Chairman: Please, a little attention. If you and your fellow MPs are not interested in the fate and future of KIM, then that is the problem. I asked very clearly: what about the money, where is the money, who has opened tenders for some non-existent roads, who has opened tenders for buildings in Kosovo Mitrovica, how much money from Kosovo's and Metohija's budget, the hateful, Albanian hospital in Kosovo Mitrovica? Ladies and gentlemen, let's find out and open the cards. One of our fellow MPs from the Kosovo Fund, supported by the Luxembourg government, took a 192,000-euro donation. I don't know if he asked Putin and Russia. This is where he spits on NATO, in America, in the Western Alliance, but he likes their money. What are we going to do about the patriotism problem? So here we have a double morale, or rather, immorality. If the National Assembly or the KIM Committee won't discuss what happened to our colleague by some who on our behalf behave like a KIM, then it's the highlight of immorality, and then I'm afraid that's the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11824	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, today we are formally discussing two laws, a bill on the President of the Republic and elections for the President of the Republic, but a fundamental debate is being held only on one law, a law on the President of the Republic. As for us, the SPS MPs, we consider that the law on the President of the Republic is bad, incomplete, with many shortcomings, with the arbitrary interpretation of the Government, the opposite of course of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, written in a way that aims more to degrade the role of the President of the Republic than to point to its importance, the importance of the role of the President of the Republic as part of the executive power in the Republic of Serbia. The law, according to what can be seen, does not respect the existing President of the Republic, let alone the President of the Republic to whom the term of office expires and who is called 'ex'. This law was obviously made in a hurry, as a result of an agreement within the government, political trade, in order to make elections for the President of the Republic as soon as possible and to keep the government going as long as possible. We are discussing one law and it is interesting to mention elections for the President of the Republic, but no one mentions other obligations of the National Assembly regarding the content of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, the content of the law concerning local self-government, and there are also many and, as far as we know, these laws are not in the procedure, but will not see the light of day, in the meantime elections for the President of the Republic will be called. So much for the consistency of the inconsistencies who constantly convince us and swear by the Constitution, I mean the congregation's majority, and when their particular interest comes to the agenda, then of course it's given priority. Paradoxically but truthfully, from the point of view of the content of this law, we must say, from the SPS, that it is worse than this 1999 law, which was amended and supplemented in 2001. It has to be said, unfortunately, like so many times so far, that this government continues to talk one way and the other works. He swears by the Constitution and the institutions, and the Constitution changes the laws. Of course, institutions fail. Although the Proposer on page 2 of the Explanations of this Act explicitly argues that the legislative authority, the National Assembly, and the executive authority, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not authorized to amend the laws by sublegal regulations, which means that they add or confiscate the powers of the President of the Republic, the same promoter, means the Government, since it is the legislator of this law, deny itself, and on page 5 of the Reasons, you can look at it, says: "The bill interprets the Constitution... ''So, the government took the right to interpret the Constitution in a way that suits it, of course, what is part of the political interest related to the resignation of the President of the Republic. Or, on page 8, again: "The bill interprets the Constitution by predicting that the President of the Republic is obliged to propose to the National Assembly a candidate for Prime Minister... "The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear. In Article 3(2) of this Act, it is mentioned: ‘The Constitution of a President of the Republic may be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly permits or if it imposes their nature’. Dear fellow Members of the People, please look very carefully at article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which speaks of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. They shall be subject to the duty of jurisdiction. It is predicted that only two of these powers can be changed, not changed, but interpreted by law. None of these two powers, of course, belong to part of what has been changed or what the legislator of this law has dared to change. So basically, the bill promoter changes the constitution. We SPS MPs, I must say, don't be surprised that this is the behaviour of the promoter, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Serbia. Because whenever the government needs it, it changes the Constitution, violates and applies it as it suits it. Under the circumstances, Mr Milan Markovic defends on behalf of the government today this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and he also formed a municipal council in Serbia, and it is interesting to mention that the government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced a forced administration into 11 municipalities in Serbia, not to mention the provisions of the Constitution which speak of the fact that the councils must be educated on the principle that the party and national membership of municipalities that have been disbanded. In no case has the government done so, but it always swears by the Constitution and says, "The Constitution, the Constitution and only the Constitution." Of course, when it suits her, she says, you know, the Constitution is there, but no law has been passed. Of course, after the law changes the essence and we have one law that exists essentially in 11 municipalities, which is about 900,000 people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have been rich for months now and for years, as in some municipalities for the first year, have no right to decide independently who should represent them at the level of local self-government. Another example concerning the president, which is the subject of the debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is his involvement in the National Security Council. The famous National Security Council, created as a result of political trade and agreement between the ruling coalition's political parties to settle, to be satisfied, to take Mr Solana's advice that the President of the Republic should control the work of the Security Service, was established by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the "Official Messenger" of 13 January 2007, the decision on the education of the National Security Council, pursuant to Article 43(1). The government law, so it says who makes up the National Security Council, so the President of the Republic is mentioned, chaired together, he's doing something with the Prime Minister, and so on. It's interesting, that article 43. The Government Act, which the Government calls upon when giving jobs to the President of the Republic - beware: the obligations of the President of the Republic relating to the work of the National Security Council - Article 43 are laid down here. The government law says: "The government's decision to establish public enterprises... "just to see the context in which they found a formal legal basis to form a National Security Council -- "the government establishes public enterprises, institutions and other organisations by decision, takes measures and regulates issues of general importance and decides on other matters for which the law or regulation provides for the government to regulate them by decision." Here, you've seen how many questions there are about Serbia's national security. There's no first letter of national security either. The only thing that binds this decision to the National Security Council and this position of the Government Act is that the decision is mentioned. So we should absolutely not be surprised that the government is applying this mode of work because, unfortunately, the government is very pragmatic about taking all the measures when it comes to maintaining power. Not to speak in vain, it is best confirmed by Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where not one word of it, respected fellow MPs, does not mention the authority of the President of the Republic regarding the National Security Council. If this can be undermined under Article 2 of the 112s, which says that "the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military and sets up, promotes and resolves the officers of the Serbian Army", it falls within the domain of science fiction because there is absolutely nothing in the other provisions of this Article on the National Security Council. We think, in essence, that this law has one great drawback, which is that it did not explicitly list these responsibilities, but only by the way, mentions that jurisdiction is determined by the Constitution. You see how it stands in the Constitution in black on white, and you see how in practice it is quite different -- the government makes legal acrobatics and forms advice, bodies, commissions, anything, not only about the president of the Republic but also about other things, just to keep the coalition going. It's a flaw that simply exists, and we think that this law makes it bad and that objectively this law cannot be adopted. I mean, generally, it's very bad from the point of view of institutions, and we socialists don't talk about personality at all, and you'll see that later when we talk about some of the other provisions of this law, this is about institutions. So this law is not a worthy institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to a member of the law that speaks of state unity, the formulation that "the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia" - well, it may have been in the 1990s or until 2004, until the provisions of the law elected by the President of the Republic were amended. We heard today that some of the colleagues say the Rigid is a condition of 50% entered as a condition of validity of the election for the President of the Republic. It's a rigid condition. Why is it rigid? Because none of the so-called. Democratic candidates can't jump that threshold, so since they can't skip the threshold, let's cut that rigid condition, of course, by calling for democracy and democratic values. The "rigidan condition" Milosevic did not bother in the 1990s to skip it very easily and to gain the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you remember what you said about that condition at the time. So it can't, objectively, be the person, president of the republic, who gets 20-25 per cent of the electoral body, to express the unity of the Republic of Serbia, because it's only 20-25 per cent of the voters enrolled in the Republic of Serbia. It cannot, unfortunately, say this especially if it also performs a public function, such as the party's president. We have had one practical situation in these months, perhaps even in years before, that the current incumbent President of the Republic of Serbia unfortunately used his post as party president for the sake of the party's interest, and thus defined the role of President of the Republic. It should be remembered, it was not so long ago, when the President of the Republic went, for example, to the party's fame in Shabac with Mr Petrovic, now the vice president, so all the media reported that the president of the Republic was in party glory and not the president of the Democratic Party, which would be quite logical because the President of the Republic has objectively nothing to ask for at party celebration, it can only be the party president, but the media did not so inform, nor did such information come from the Cabin. Or to remember the session of the General Committee of the same Democratic Party, when they announced that the president of the state chaired the meetings of the General Committee and, for example, took a position on agriculture -- how the DS sees what should be done in agriculture now. Interestingly, it is a very prominent state function of the president of the DS. The example shows how much the role of the President of the Republic is derivated by such behaviour, where, above all, information is given to the public from the point of view that it performs the state's function and then the party's, and all of it in the function of a particular political party. The fourth thing, about the government's discharge. I think that in the haste, which we had when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, it was obvious that certain shortcomings in this Constitution were also undermined. Now these shortcomings in the Constitution make us, unfortunately, an obstacle to solving things more effectively. Here, we have a president who can be resolved. It's an interesting formulation, of course it's taken over from the Constitution, but that doesn't mean it's good. The constitution is as it is and we voted for it, but I am saying that, obviously not only this law but also other laws that were the subject of the debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, show that the Constitution has many shortcomings. For example, it mentions that the president can be resolved if the initiative is launched by one-third of the MPs, if the Constitutional Court adopts a positive position, and now we come to that essential one, it says it cannot be resolved if two-thirds of the MPs do not give their positive court. Then the question arises: why does the initiative even start, why is the Constitutional Court mentioned? Then it should be said: regardless of the position of the Constitutional Court, whatever it is, the president will be removed or will not be removed, depending on whether he has the support of two-thirds of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It should be fair to say that the opinion of the Constitutional Court is not at all important, that it is not at all important to the opinion of the most significant institution that gives an opinion on the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution, whether or not the Constitution has been violated, but simply should it be said: the President of the Republic may be resolved in the Assembly only if two-thirds of the MPs decide on it. So it has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's position, but it has to do with the congregation's majority. Part of the law regarding the service of the President of the Republic is very vague, with general provisions, where the number of perpetrators is not seen at all -- so there can be a small million of them, and there may be few. In any case, according to one of the colleagues, all of this will be paid through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, in fact, arrives on Monday for the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All of this will be paid by the citizens, as they have paid so far. Our MP, Željko Vasiljevic, has submitted an amendment that provides for the abolition of the National Office, which is quite logical because neither in this law nor in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the part of the jobs that the president can carry out, there is no point in what is called the National Office, since it was, I say, an DS exhibit that has been installed in most municipalities of the Republic of Serbia with the intention of, of course, promoting DS policy and helping DS members in different ways. I would like those citizens who are not members of the DS or are not their supporters who have received support from the National Office. We've seen that every time the People's Office takes action, marketing works, next to them are fellow MPs from the DS or DS officials, and that's part of the mile that follows that story. Our colleague Zeljko Vasiljevic suggested that simply, if we formed the Protector of Citizens, and we did, if we formed some other institutions, and we did, if we wanted to have a rule of law, I guess that's what we're trying to do, that there really is no place for such an institution. Regarding the disbanding of the Assembly, that the president may but does not have to disband the Assembly on a reasoned proposal by the Government, it is thus decided to be a system of superseding. The government has a reasoned proposal to disband the president, and the president says: I disagree because now we are not in good relations, i.e. making a second political assessment - means more to stand and less to mean. At the end of this part about the law, let me tell you more about the former president. It's part of the law from Articles 34 to 40 and something. I honestly think this part of the law is the funniest, funniest, worst. In fact, it shows how much the assembly majority, how much the government doesn't care about the importance of the president's institution. Someone mentioned today that the President of the Republic is a symbol. The former president of the Republic is also a symbol of Serbia. Compared to how you treat the former president of the Republic, you show how you treat Serbia. It is not possible to talk about Serbia's dignity, Serbia's unity, the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia, and you have made a bill where former presidents have the right to be called 'ex' and will be called to formal sessions, holidays and protocol to determine his place. Well, now, you know how? The fact that you gave the former presidents the right to be called "ex", that's what the people gave them, that's what you can't give them, and you can't take it away. They call the presidents anyway, once president -- always president, but it's bad that you've made a law like this. If this law is made according to the president, according to the president's personality, then unfortunately neither the assembly majority nor members of the DS, nor the other coalition believes in Mr Tadic and does not believe in his election result. They've already given him up through this law. Because if they had a little courage, they would have defended the institution of the President of the Republic, the institution of the President, not the man. It is a shame that in the work relating to the former president, he mentions that the former president cannot have the right to the secretary, the driver, the security man for longer than his term, believe it or not. So it's mentioned the possibility that he had 80% of his personal income, and before it was 85%, so it's mentioned that he had to go to the employer to look for a job. Please imagine what it means for the President of the Republic to have the former president go to the employer to look for a job. That's a real shame. Not to mention you've completely forgotten the part that should have retroactive character. Our colleague Rajko Baralic has submitted a good amendment, where former presidents or people who should have rights as former presidents should also include former SRJ presidents. Let me remind you, there were four of them. Unfortunately, President Slobodan Milosevic died, but there are Mr Dobrica Cosic, Mr Zoran Lilic and Mr Vojislav Kostunica. Some social security rights are mentioned here. For those of you who don't know, without the intention of hurting anyone, I may now say something that isn't true, but I don't believe for Mr. Dobric Cosic that he has the right, as former president of the SRJ, because it was, on social security. For Mr. Zoran Lilic, I know he doesn't have the right to social security as former president. And the whole story about the former president has come down to the fact that when a man travels abroad, he'll get a diplomatic passport and the diplomatic consular service will be available to him. Let me tell you, dear fellow Members of the congregation, that you don't have to do this at all because the former presidents, when they leave Serbia's territory, there are more prices than they appreciate here. They are honored there anyway because they are former presidents of Serbia or Yugoslavia, and they value them more than you value them here, and by the content of this law you have shown that you do not appreciate them. It's a shame, at the moment you started hundreds of agencies, when the directors of public enterprises paid several hundred thousand dinars, to ask whether Serbia has the money to pay three people who will be available to the former president of the state or to people who belong in that category. Look at the 1999 law, and you'll see that those rights were life-long, that three people were involved, that they were meant to work eight hours a day. This bill, in fact, shows that you, unfortunately, gave up your candidate and that you appreciate that someone else will be a winner in these elections, so you say, when the other one wins, that he will not, in your opinion, enjoy some greater rights. I mentioned this part of the law on the former president who, in fact, shows disrespect for the institution of the President of the Republic because, you know, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the President of the Republic is little. Whoever it is, it's being elected directly by the citizens. With all due respect to others, the President of the Republic must, as an institution, be respected in society, in the state, if we want there to be an institution. Whoever he is and whatever his name is, he must be respected in different ways. It is a shame that the President of the Republic, for example, does have the status as one better president of the municipality, not to mention the directors of public enterprises, who do not even know what the elections are, nor do they know what the will of the citizens is, and they receive several hundred thousand dinars because they are party officials and because the party has rewarded them for some loyalty. Let them go to the elections, as Mr. Nikolic said, and let them show their values, and whom the citizens choose, my God. But there's no point in people here, the point is in the institution of the President of the Republic. This law, in the opinion of SPS MPs and SPS members, is a very bad law because neither respects the institution of the current president, I have shown in what way it derogates and changes it, and gives it powers it does not have, those it has taken away from it, but does not respect the former president either. The word does not respect the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia, and as such a law, certainly cannot last long. There's no such thing as luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11826	Do any of the other MPs who haven't used their right want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr Milan Markovic, minister in the Serbian government, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11827	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today's debate was really good, I think we've heard a lot of quality assessments about the laws on the agenda today. I must say that, in my opinion, there have been some harsh estimates, but each of us has an opinion and each of us has the right to properly interpret what the provisions of this law are. I think the discussion we're having the day after tomorrow, when this 2400-hour deadline expires, according to the amendments, will be very useful. I believe, from today's discussion, that a number of amendments should be accepted. I think there are certain misunderstandings that we would have to address in order to make this law a clear and clear situation. Of course, I'm going to use the right, when there's an amendment debate, to talk more about what the objections were today, very specifically, but if I may, I would now just say a few things about some remarks that have happened several times. I think we can remove these few concerns right now, or, if we don't, at least you can hear my opinion, which is why we won't accept a single group of amendments. There are certain misunderstandings about resolution. In view of the various political parties, these resolution concerns have moved from those who say that perhaps the role of parliament should be strengthened, so that through those that the role of the Constitutional Court may not be dominant here, and to those who say - the president has elected citizens, only citizens can change it, with an explanation that there is no way that the president is elected by citizens, or someone is elected by the president, and the other body is responsible for his shift. I want to tell you right now that I think this is the right thing to do. The president is elected by citizens, but that doesn't mean he's immune to the Constitution. It is necessary that the Constitutional Court, as the sole authority, should anyone suspect that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, assess that. If that is assessed, then MPs appreciate whether it is such a violation of the Constitution that its retention in that position is unsustainable. I will remind you that, of course, a completely similar system, in different circumstances, given the way the elections are and on a few other elements, have the United States and that this dominant role of the president is even more pronounced than it is in Serbia. So they have an even stronger president, a pure presidential system, someone here mentioned it, dating back to 1878, who is in the same way coming into the situation, when it comes to his responsibility, to be resolved by someone else and not by the ones who chose him. I don't understand why the question of replacing the president was the subject of controversy here. The President of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by the law, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, unless he is in a position to perform his duty, replaces the President of the National Assembly. The law very precisely states which jobs the president of the National Assembly, when performing that function, must perform and do them. Honestly, I don't know what could be done more precisely on this matter, and I'm not making that observation clear to me. We'll see when there's a debate on the amendments whether there are any problems. The President of the National Assembly may be acting as acting President of the Republic, in accordance with Article 14 of this Law, but it writes very clearly what acts are, or how the President of the National Assembly must behave and what time-limit it can be, that is the deadline provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There were also objections to the termological character and controversy of what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not in accordance with the Constitution. We really need to get out of it, and counterpart Obradovic said we have some problems with the text of the Constitution. We all brought it together, so we all have to answer for it together. There are problems. That's why, as a government, we used the word 'interpreting' in the interpretation of the law, and I'll explain why. But here's something that's much clearer. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for example, states in Article 134 that the immunity of a member of the government is being decided by the government, and then in Article 105(7), that the immunity of that same member of the government is being decided by the National Assembly. So we have problems with our Constitution. You'll see, take section 105, that's the National Assembly, and Article 134, that's the government. When it comes to the resignation of the President of the Republic, we have in the Constitution a provision saying that the President of the Republic submits his resignation to the National Assembly. And then, literally per centimetre, that's two attitudes next to each other, but they're different members, he says, when he resigns, he informs the president of the National Assembly. So now, either he delivers his resignation, or he informs him of it. Unfortunately, that's what the Constitution says. That is why the legislator decided to explain it a little bit, both because of our recent practice. You remember one unpleasant situation that we had in the last term of the Assembly, when the president of the National Assembly interpreted the minister as not being written, so he couldn't resign, or rather how he explained it in a very unmistakable way, and then we had this amazing situation. So that's the situation that needs to be solved. I think it's the best solution in the bill. The moment is when that resignation is taken into the office of the National Assembly, according to the office business rules, and there is no further dilemma. On the other hand, it's normal and logical. It is a personal act of the President of the Republic chosen by the citizens, with all respect to the National Assembly. The National Assembly is not the one who has the authority to decide on that resignation and whether or not it depends on its decision. It's his personal act and, the moment she's seduced here in the office, that's the end. So he resigned and no more going back. I agree with you, perhaps the very word "interpreting" is not a good explanation, but apparently our Constitution makes us see things a little more precisely, etc. Practically, here, for the third or fourth time Mr. Obradovic and I have the same subject and I am obliged to tell him, here - I promise, in the proposal for a law on local self-government, temporary authorities will be drawn up in accordance with Article 192 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's how it's gonna be. The government's position is that it is a constitutional provision that needs to be developed in the law on local self-government. That was the position of the government that you supported and the minister you supported. Mr Nikolic objected that in the law on elections for the President of the Republic, it is mentioned that the vote is personal. And then you asked, where does the Constitution say that voting is personal? It's in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So that's why we put it in person. I'll read Article 52. Election law, I do not think it is disputed: "Every adult, business-qualified citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be elected. Election law is general and equal, elections are free and direct, and the vote is secret and personal'. That's why we put "personal." I'm sorry that later, in some other members of the Constitution, it wasn't consistent who wrote it, but I'm saying, we have some problems with the Constitution. As for Article 24 of the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic, I, too, have a great dilemma and I think that in the debate on amendments, we will resolve this transitional provision. Ratio legis was one, and I think that the interpretation that most of the MPs have here is quite different, and since the MPs are experiencing it differently, it makes sense that everyone will experience it differently. I think Article 24 either has to be precise or an amendment that requires that member be deleted will be accepted. As far as the mandate for the formation of the new government is concerned, I have a clear proposal for a number of MPs to potentially pre-warn the possible obstruction of the President of the Republic. I think the law did exactly that to eliminate such obstruction. I'll remind you that we are a member of the 18th and that he is obliged to propose a candidate for Prime Minister who can also secure the government's choice. You say now: if no one can secure the government's choice, you give one of those who cannot secure the government's choice because he has the largest parliamentary group. Basically, we come to the same thing. It's absolutely the same story. If the leader of the largest parliamentary group can secure the government's election, he will certainly get the mandate immediately. If he can't, it doesn't matter what we give him. I don't think there's any dilemma. At the very least, Article 112(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has settled this. We've already spread it here a little bit compared to what the Constitution has prescribed, we've tried to be more precise, to impose it on the President of the Republic in the light of the obligation. You know that in the Constitution it is not even so, but where the list is clearly said that it only suggests in the prepared opinion, according to the heard opinion of the head of the parliamentary group. So I think there's now those who are criticizing us that we've gone somewhere a step more critical of this, but I think we've done a good thing. A number of MPs said why do you agree to reduce the influence of the President of the Republic in favour of the Government? And the other group of MPs said they were given here I don't know what responsibilities the President of the Republic has. It's interesting how different the interpretation is and it tells me that we found the right measure. So I think we really found the right measure, some environment between those two attitudes. I don't think calling on the 1990 Constitution and the authority of the 1990 President of the Republic just isn't appropriate right now. These are less jurisdiction than the president had under the 1990 Constitution, but we, when we were opposition and when we wanted to change the Constitution, were just criticizing part of the 1990 Constitution that was talking about the powers of the President of the Republic and we were particularly critical of the way it was resolved. So, we really thought, and day and day, we think that under that constitution it was impossible to resolve the President of the Republic. Now again, here, someone thinks this is too mild, but, I say, I think this is quite a measure. The remark concerning the use of terminology in the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic, I must admit, has personally led me to doubt, therefore, that term of'revoced vote', although Article 22 makes the difference between the re-election cycle and the re-vote. But there are other questions opening up here, and I'm going to make sure that tomorrow, with my colleagues from the government, I'm going to make sure that, based on the amendments that have been submitted, we find some solution that would use better terminology. Generally, I think a few places in the law need to make certain changes so that the law itself is clear to anyone who reads it. Finally, I really think that the law on the President of the Republic and the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic are quite high quality. If we remove these few parts of these obvious objections, or a few of these criticised solutions, I think we can say that MPs need to decide on a very good, quality text and I don't think in practice it will cause any problems. And, in the end, about that my repeatedly mentioned introductory exposure. I'm sorry it took 30 minutes, but I simply made sure that from these arguments that were given here -- and if those arguments were read in general, that, if I'm not mistaken, it would take two hours -- I would take out those things that I think are most interesting and most important to our public. I am convinced that the MPs have read these arguments and that they know it, but, of course, there would not be any need at all for a special representative of the Government to explain it if it were always sent only to the MPs, but it is, I think, the order and that the people who are following the transmission through small screens can hear what are the basic elements of the text that are in front of you. In any case, I really thank all my colleagues in the way they suggested certain, bad, things in this law, and, I say, I hope that the day after tomorrow we come together to the text of a law that will in one good way edit this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11828	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11829	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I'll be real quick. So far, the practice and manner of work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has problems with the Constitution, rather than with the MPs of the opposition, not us MPs of the SPS, because the government does not respect the Constitution, interprets it whenever it wants and in accordance with its interests. Let me tell you, Mr. Minister, both you and the other members of the government, the Constitution of the Republic is older than any government, including these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11830	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11831	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just take a moment. I think Mr. Secretary's comment was worth hearing. However, whether or not, what the heads of the parliamentary groups have indicated, which is what every other MP who went out for this speaker, concerns a member who is talking about performing a public function, or that the President of the Republic cannot perform a public function and another public action, it seems to me, I was paraphrasing, of course, referring to performing a party function - no comment, Mr Minister, you did not give that. Whether it is a taboo topic or it is necessary to wait and spend the night, in order to consult with your party's competent authorities what you will do on the amendments we have proposed, but this would be indeed a flagrant violation of the Constitution if the President of the Republic remains this way at the same time performing a leadership function in his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-26-0.u11832	Thank you. We're out of word. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic and the Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. We continue the debate, according to the amendments, on Wednesday, November 28th, 2007 at 10:00 p.m. Thank you very much.
