ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please accept your apology for the delay in the beginning of this session. There are both objective and subjective circumstances. The material's still being printed, but I think we're going to be able to get some more material at work. I would like to inform you that in the first session, the Administrative Committee will determine where any parliamentary group will be sitting in the National Assembly Hall, and I now ask the Members of Parliament not to pay attention to the fact that the parliamentary group is complete, because it is impossible, because some MPs have entered the hall earlier and have taken their seats. Anyone who doesn't want to get up doesn't have to stay in place and the rest of you sit where there's a seat open until the official decision of the Administrative Board. We've been conducting consultations today regarding the continuation of this session. I am obliged to brief you on the consultations. At the consultations, SRS, DSS and SPS parliamentary groups said they wanted to participate in the proposal and election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly and members of the Assembly Committees and wanted to participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The DS and LDP parliamentary groups said they did not want to, they will probably explain in the course of the debate, that they are running for vice-presidents of the National Assembly and members of the board, and that they want to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Other parliamentary groups refused to propose their candidates for assembly functions and said they would not enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until further notice. We continue the work of the First National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 186 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 202 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u481	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during yesterday's debate I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and requested the most rigorous punishment, in accordance with Article 108. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the holding of the session order through the definition of sanctions - the distance measures from the sitting, which shall be given to the MP, calling for Article 2 very precisely to say that the measure of distance from the sitting may be given to the MP and without previously stated measures, in the case of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly. I have advertised this breach of the Rules of Procedure following the assembly appearance of the candidate for the president of our Parliament, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in which, as a national MP and as a candidate, today and as President of the Republic of Parliament, he has insulted every decent man in the country and humiliated Parliament as an institution with his inappropriate and unmeasured reaction in which he called the tragically murdered Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, a mafia prime minister. Zoran Djindjic became Prime Minister by winning the election. Zoran Djindjic became Prime Minister with the votes of 176 MPs of the assembly. About Zoran Djindjic, citizens may have whatever opinion they want, but politicians, and especially the holders of the most important, significant functions in this country, must send a very clear message to our society by their relationship to the crime on March 12th to condemn such a thing, to contribute to what, among other things, to the inauguration act and to announce Mr Tomislav Nikolic – the triumph of democracy. The parliamentary majority is behind him, but since the chairman has not responded to my remarks on the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u482	Mr. Jovanovic, you will continue, just to let you know that three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u483	I thank you, and I'll take care of the weather. Given that the chairman has not made a statement about my advertising, I expect the President of Parliament to declare whether or not there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then, if I am not satisfied with his response, I will ask Parliament to impose a strictest penalty on Tomislav Nikolic in the day of voting, a move away from a session of twenty days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u484	Mr. Jovanovic, in the meantime, there has been a change in the chairman, so I'm going to have to answer you. I am telling you that at this session, there is no day to vote and that I will give the MPs the opportunity immediately to declare your motion to disfellowship the assembly of the MPs. Well, even if they shut me out, on your suggestion, it wouldn't be the first time. As I was unjustly excluded at the time, it could happen now. Don't fight books. If you wrote a book too, if someone attacked you for that book, I would defend you, whatever that book is called. Do you want me to put your proposal to the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u485	Mr. President, I believe that you appreciate my respect for Parliament's procedure and calling on the Rules of Procedure. I am not satisfied with the response you have given me, precisely because of the respect for the role of Parliament's president, I think you must commit yourself to a different political behaviour than the one that was characteristic of the time in which I also went out with similar demands. I promise that something like this will happen every time you forget that this parliament has to follow an exceptional responsibility and a completely different policy than the one that was present in it and the one that in its unsatisfactory response to my initiative you are re-announced. So, I insist that Parliament declare itself either in the voting day or in the moment since it is a constitutional session, therefore, not a day for voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u486	I'm putting it to a vote... The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, wants a word. )......................................................................................................... And the congregation decides not to search. You'll get the word later. I put the motion to vote, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, to exclude Tomislav Nikolic from the session for the reasons he cited. Please plead, by voting in the electronic unit, now. For 69, against 119, 26 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find your proposal not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u487	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, during yesterday's session, I have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure for the reason that we felt that the second item of the agenda was not completed, since a report to the National Assembly was not delivered to the state negotiating team on the results of the negotiations in Vienna, which was the obligation of the previous session of Parliament. Yesterday, Parliament's chairman tried to explain that the agenda item had been completed. I asked Parliament to declare this, therefore, whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured because of our interpretation that the second item of the agenda has not been completed. Parliament has not spoken out on this, and here everyone is showing enormous concern and competing in patriotism when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I ask you, Mr President, that Parliament declares whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured because the State's negotiating team's report is missing on the matter of the previous session, i.e. the second item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u488	I am putting on the vote by MP Vladan Batic's proposal that Parliament declares whether yesterday's Rules of Procedure was injured when Parliament continued to work, although, in the opinion of Mr Batic, this is not what the conditions were for. Please vote. For 67, against 141, 8 of the 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, which speaks of the powers and obligations of the President of the Assembly and of Article 104, which speaks of the obligations of all MPs and so does the President of the Assembly. I ask the President of the Assembly, with the hope that it is only a forgetfulness and oversight, to remove the badge from the lapels while chairing the National Assembly. From this pay phone, I have made it clear several times that I find it inadmissible, that I consider it a violation of the basic human rights that after voluntary departure, and on the brought charge, Vojislav Seselj in custody in The Hague, without his trial yet to begin. I understand both the party and the parliamentary group, which, by wearing the badge, is expressing a protest. The president of the assembly is the president of the assembly. Only the flag of Serbia can stand on the lapel and that the team is expressing the same protest. Photographs, MPs get that Vojislav Seselj's character is Serbia's flag -- is not. Vojislav Seselj is the president of one political party, and the flag of Serbia is the flag under which we are all gathered: both the million and 200 thousand who voted for you, the 920 thousand who voted for the DS, the 600,000 who voted for the DSS, the 200 thousand voters who voted for LDP, the SPS and the G17 plus, without talking about valuable votes based on which members of the national communities are in this assembly. The President of the Assembly should represent all of us. He can keep the picture on the table, and the badge shouldn't be on the lapel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u490	I assume you're expecting an explanation. I'm wearing a badge that says "Stop Hague tyranny." I don't mind that, and I'll put it to a vote in front of the National Assembly whether it bothers most MPs in the National Assembly. If any of you are threatened by any human right and if you protest against it with a badge, bring me that badge and I will wear it during the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want to vote? No, I don't. So you approve of me wearing a badge from now on. Does anyone else want a word in this most beautiful opening part of the session? No, I don't. I find that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Riza Halimi and Pastor Balint. They've justified their absence, and for the rest of us, we have no information. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received suggestions from three parliamentary groups, but the Rules of Procedure asks us to do something else before that. Article 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the National Assembly has no more than six vice-presidents and that each constitution establishes the number of vice-presidents by a special decision and on a proposal from the President. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting. You have received proposals from three parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 16. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But the Rules of Procedure are asking us to do something else first. Article 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the Assembly shall have no more than six vice-presidents and that, in each constitution, the National Assembly shall determine the number of vice-presidents by special decision, on a proposal from the President. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting. I am handling that six vice-presidents are enough to present the relevant parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, and I am not handling that only three parliamentary groups have submitted proposals for vice-presidents. I therefore suggest that we determine the number of six vice-presidents, vote on the proposals that have arrived, and leave the possibility that the other parliamentary groups later, within the number that is allowed them by the percentage of parliamentary seats in the Assembly, propose their candidates. In accordance with Article 16, I received three proposals. These proposals were sent to you, and as you saw for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs were proposed: Natasa Jovanovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party MP Milutin Mrkonjic, a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia and Radojko Obradovic, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. According to Article 17(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur, has the right to explain the proposal. I ask, do the rapporteurs, MPs Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dacic and Milos Aligrudic want to explain candidates' proposals for vice-presidents of the National Assembly? - They want to. ) Since they wish, the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, a representative of the legislator of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u491	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the Assembly, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party, in line with the best democratic practice and tradition and the agreed principle that any political organisation or political list should receive that number of vice-presidential seats proportionally to the number of votes it won in the elections, Natasu Jovanovic, as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ran. We also expected all the parliamentary groups that deserved it, the people's trust that they gained, to run for their people in vice-presidential seats. Unfortunately, today we are faced with some kind of attempt to say – we find it terribly difficult that Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the Assembly, so we have not found our way into what is happening today, we are waiting to see what is yet to happen. What does that have to do with the congregation, they don't know anything, they can't explain it, but later they'll say whether or not they're going to make their proposal to the vice president of the assembly. For those who are rude, who earn and say that they are right or not, it is, especially when you have democratic leadership, a democratic president who, with a lot of tolerance, says he will wait, whenever that happens, for every member of the board to fill his seat, even if he solves it in three days, six months or three years. That goes for the vice president's seat, too. That is why I am pleased that this right is made possible for you and that everyone is allowed to reconsider, think, change their decisions. Because I must remind you, at a time when you have made decisions in this House, not that it was not a practice, it was a practice to throw out MPs, a vote from Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and to ban political parties from being on board proportionally the number of voters. You took all the committees that fit you, and on a spoon, for the sake of the public, you were just giving something to the opposition. As for the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party for Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would say: Natasa Jovanovic is an exceptional lady, for many things, who comes from the heart of Serbia, from the heart of Šumadija, from Kragujevac. You also got her work résumé where she was doing everything, starting with the flag impeks to various tourist agencies. He speaks English. Natasa Jovanovic is someone who has always stood out in this parliament with his struggle, patriotism and his sincere relationship with the state and the people. I would say that Natasa Jovanovic is a championless fighter, a woman whom they have not even managed to win in this parliament, and never to make her give up the requirements for fulfilling or achieving the fundamental human rights she has advocated. If I may be personal, I would say that Natasa Jovanovic is one of the bravest women I've ever met, a woman who, in any case, deserves that kind of honor and that kind of public respect and recognition to be held as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are doing this by trying to show everyone how much we want Pparliament to do well and successfully, to show everyone how we respect this high house, of course, by respecting those people we propose. At the same time, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I answered, although I don't mind that some people here don't like to listen anyway, it's their problem and I'm talking about their rudeness and rudeness, to say something that I think is most important today. In fact, there was a terrible scandal today. The terrible scandal consists of the following: the solan kkaplaar, president of the Republic of Serbia currently of interest, Boris Tadic today brutally attacked the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic, head of one part of the executive government, would like to ask Mr Vlahovic for just a little attention, Boris Tadic has dared to attack the institution. Mr. Micunovic, this is about democracy, and you should hear Boris Tadic attack the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, including you. But don't worry, Mr. Micunovic, I will defend you from Mr. Tadic. It's our sacred duty and we'll be able to do it. So Boris Tadic dared to say the following thing: he estimated that the election of representatives of the Serbian Radical Party to the president of the Serbian Parliament, therefore, is a direct attack on the president of the Serbian Parliament, that he is very harmful to the interests of the state and has called on the progressive forces to make efforts, I don't know what it is already about, but he continues to speak about Tomislav Nikolic and his plans for further, not knowing, I guess, that it is not good when in some country the president or head of executive government attacks the president of the legislative body, the president of a country's parliament. Of course, I expect the President of the National Assembly's cabinet to respond to that, but also to respond in every place to this stupid and pointless attack. I must say that this attack is causing great damage to the state of Serbia and state institutions. This kind of attack tells us how right we were when we said that Serbian citizens always have to choose their authority, not that we have the candidates of Solana's corporal or some lower liaison officers, who just need to carry out someone's orders. It's not hard for me to say that Boris Tadic is the biggest pest. But that's a little bit to say about Boris Tadic -- you know, when someone becomes a corporal of the one who killed in Serbia, who plans to kidnap you Kosovo and Metohija, and, in all of that, thinks he's smart enough to attack the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, in all of that, he suggests a candidate for the prime minister of the man who has 11m euros in one bank, i.e. ten million and 850,000 euros, respectively, has "the Duke of Meridian Bank". That's what was found black on white, who knows what else is in your aunt's couch. So, unrelated to all this, I expect the MPs to announce and condemn the rude and rude behaviour of Boris Tadic, to make it clear to him that the National Assembly is not his side, that it cannot treat the MPs of the Serbian Parliament as their party colleagues, corporals, documentarians and others, but the National Assembly must respect and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must respect it, because it has been elected by the national representatives. If Boris Tadic is not clear enough, it would be good to look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it would be good to look at the usual right, but I fear in that case he will not listen to the right, nor to justice, nor to the politics, but will listen to his bosses and dukes, of course, from various banks, perhaps some, I would say, strange substances. Just so you see, I brought you respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs, who yesterday was right when we spoke about who would rejoice and who would grieve over the election of Tom Nikolic. I realized that the saddest would be Ceku, Thaci and these. One here told us that they would be the happiest, and, here, I am now reading their official reaction to you. Kosovo Parliament Speaker Ram Manaj, who is your colleague, friends, assessed today the election of SRS deputy President Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Serbian Parliament as a return to the past. So you lied again, and we were telling the truth. But I have to tell you something, Rama Manaja's words are exactly the same as Boris Tadic's words. There is no difference between Rama Manaj and Boris Tadic. I don't mind that we've now established that Ram Manaj and Boris Tadic feel the same way about Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic, and I am sure that Natasa Jovanovic from the vice-presidential post, will win both the DS, and Rama Manaja and the rudeness of Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u493	President, you have announced a new democratic era in this assembly. You have violated the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed it to speak beyond the agenda, where you have a series and a series of insults by the heads of state and other people, which could have occurred in seconds of thought, you want to turn this assembly into a very ugly defamation debate, in which there is no point, nor does it carry out its task. I expected you to take advantage of the opportunity, when it comes to your associate, to remove it and say that this assembly will seriously discuss the laws and problems that arise here. There's a vice president's election on the agenda. I enjoyed the commendation, which is the right that was done for the vice president of the assembly. I thought that was the end of the deal. Instead, we've heard another tirada, who wants to open the debate, that today this first session, which the whole world is watching, we turn into what she was last night, and that without any criteria, and at great shame, everyone can say to him whatever he thinks, that words that are no longer used in the markets, are completely alienated here. You have made a very bad presentation of your first time in handling this congregation. Therefore, I ask you to warn your associates or those who want to do so, to stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is there, and that, if you will, this session makes sense, if you turn it into something else, there's no point in sitting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u494	Mr Micunovic, today his Excellency, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, personally brought congratulations to the president of the Russian Duma and the Russian Council of the Federation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because he chose his president in a completely democratic way. Then Serbia's president said Tomislav Nikolic's election as Parliament Speaker is harmful to Serbia. How am I supposed to reprove Alexander Vukic now when he, as a National MP, defends the National Assembly and the institution of the President of the National Assembly? I'll let you speak, you won't say personal insults to each other, that's where I'll get involved. The assembly is completely open to this kind of discussion. When I interrupt one of you, warn or interfere with your attitudes, then really give me your remarks. As I recall, Mr. Micunovic, you were not too rigorous towards the MPs. You remained remembered as a man who was almost very well chaired by the meetings of the congregation. You didn't interrupt either, Mr. Micunovic, the speaker when he presented his views and grades. It's called freedom of speech allowed by a MP who can't even be punished for the words he says for the pay phone. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you go. This is not the Democratic Party's parliamentary club that everyone has to praise the president of Serbia, you are MPs. You don't have to protect the National Assembly, but don't stop whoever wants to. The attack in the manner in which we have made the election of the President of the Assembly, made by the President of the Republic, is a brutal attack of interference in the legislative power. You know that very well. It's the President of the Republic's manners. If my choice for Parliament's president, in accordance with the procedure, is harmful to Serbia, then how should Serbia choose the speaker of the assembly? A decree? Why am I opening agendas for what you want to say? Well, he'll also have a chance to say that my choice for the President of the Republic is harmful to Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u495	Mr. President, I'm reporting under Rule 100, breach of the Rules of Procedure. I assume you know what it is, you've been in the Assembly for a long time. Mr. President, I think just by exhibiting your first associate in a naive way, it shows what it is that this National Assembly should become your chairmanship. Also, you showed that everything you said in your opening speech was early this morning and all that you told us today at the meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs, in fact, is one big delusion. I really can't believe that at this first point, which you de facto run, you couldn't keep a minimum of dignity that was necessary for both our country and this National Assembly. [[Applause]] I'm also wondering, does this lead to the fact that we're about to be disabled from going out for a pay phone? Will by throwing Mr. Vukic the MPs be wavering to appear behind this pay phone? Do you threaten each of us with a series of worst slanders, insults, insults beyond the extended family if we show up behind this pay phone? Do you wish, Mr. President, to bring such fear into this National Assembly that there will be no more opposition here? Is this what you and Mr. Kostunica were talking about when you agreed to form a parliamentary majority?- I'm sorry. Mr. President, you're saying it's not yours to interrupt the MP. Well, you're wrong. You're here to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. You're here to take care of the elemental decency of those who go out for this pay phone. Who is unable to control himself, who is unable to speak politely for more than three minutes, you must give him a reminder, and a second warning, a third, and if he needs to be removed from the session, because, if we continue like this, this assembly will look like Hyde Park and some circus, and he will never become the institution he needs to be. I'm surprised, Mr. Wolfie, really, sometimes I don't know, like there are two or three Mr. Wolfies. Mr. Vucicou, you called the Ustasha from this speaker of the Republic of Serbia, you said that the President of the Republic of Serbia is a foreign mercenary, you said that he is a corporal, and you do not allow us to say that the election of Tomislav Nikolic as National Assembly President is harmful. You from this pay phone indicate the worst insults against the MPs of other parties. No one's good for you in Serbia. Kostunica is a whore, I apologize, indeed, to Mr. Kostunica and the public for what I had to say, but he's a whore, we're traitors, some there are lunatics. Who, Mr. Wolfie, is good for you in this Serbia? Is there a man who pleases you other than yourself, your party and your leader? Ask yourself, Mr. Wolf, if there is one single public figure in this country that you didn't drag through the mud. How can you even speak to people after such words? No luck, Mr. Nikolic, I believed that perhaps this National Assembly could respect the procedure. I'm afraid your choice is a big failure, a great shame, and we will say it in further discussion, but I ask you to respect the procedure, you know the Rules of Procedure, as we all know all of us who are Members of this National Assembly. I would ask that in the day of the vote, we make a statement about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, not because you Serbian radicals are going to vote for this to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to see if the DSS thinks that it's an injury to the Rules of Procedure if someone comes out for a pay phone and, besides every topic on the agenda, they're talking about the head of our country, the president elected by the citizens, the president voted by many members and sympathisers and the DSS, if someone comes out and tells him that he's a foreign official, that he's a traitor to his country, that he's a Ustasha, etc. In the end, Mr. Nikolic, you are the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're not some Russian official who's here for temporary work. What is behind you, Mr Nikolic, is the flag of the Republic of Serbia, above is the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the Russian province, this is Serbia and you should protect the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u496	Unfortunately, I have to agree with you. Unfortunately, this is not the Russian province, but this will never be a colony of the European Union. I guarantee you that. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u497	Mr. President, I must point out to the MPs and citizens of Serbia what Mr. Markovic is doing. He's, you know, not like this. It's kind of a double personality. When it comes out for a pay phone, every once in a while, it's like the iron swallows, so get serious, well, like, now I'm going to tell you something very important. He mentions a further and closer family. It is your custom, Mr. Markovic, your MPs and your MPs, to curse the mother, sister and all other MPs of the SRS, as you did yesterday, you and Mr. Djokovic and some other MPs. You tell someone that, like, we're nice and I don't know what. Do you think we're afraid when you curse, when you go out for a pay phone and threaten? Mr. Markovic, I don't know what you resented Mr. Nikolic for letting me say something. Is that what I quoted Ram Mana and Boris Tadic for, Mr Markovic, and for establishing the incredible or fatal attraction between Rama Manaja and Boris Tadic? Same statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read: Ram Manaj, for those who do not know, the first adviser to the Kosovo Assembly, estimated that the election of SRS Deputy President Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Serbian Parliament is a return to the past. See what Mr Tadic says – that this choice is very harmful to the interests of the state and that its forces should provide a European future. Consider Ram Manaja's statement, which is Boris Tadic. I can't see the difference. It's just denying everything you said yesterday. Don't give us moral sermons and that the most immoral people in Serbia are giving us moral sermons, because here are the honored hosts, honest people, who you won't insult in any way and who you won't hold the vaquel in any way. I don't have a problem with you being threatened from time to time and thinking that everyone in Serbia should be afraid of you. I'm not afraid of you as much as there are of you and no one on this side is afraid of you, because we have one goal that's much more important. It is true, neither this will ever be an American colony, nor will it be a Russian state, nor will it be a colony of the European Union, nor anything. This was also going to remain a Serbian country and all other citizens of Serbia, was and others contrary to your efforts to do everything differently. There's something else I need to say. Is there any way to conduct the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and the democratic way to conduct the lectures here being held by those who have been convicted of voting here in this House from Asia Minor?- I'm sorry. They say they're in favour of the European Union, and they're voting from Asia Minor. These are the ones who beat up the MPs, they're the ones who threw out all the MPs' groups, they're the people who did everything to destroy Serbia, so now, like, I'm going to swallow the iron, I'm going to be very serious, so I'm going to blame you. We're terrified of how dangerous you are and how serious you are. Only you are doing your job, and it would be good to welcome, as representatives of the Serbian Parliament, that the Russian ambassador, the ambassador of the country who supports Serbia to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, came, congratulated the democratic election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, instead of going to attack us today one of the few in the world of great forces, that they are friendly towards our country. I know that you have a problem strengthening Russia, that Russia is a friendly country, that Russia has not bombed us, and these are yours, and that the Russians are not responsible for Milica Rakic and little Sanja. I know it bothers you, but the citizens of Serbia don't mind. Therefore, Serbia's citizens are incomparably more priced for Russian support, and of course most respect and count on Serbian support and support from Serbian citizens, both Tomislav Nikolic and SRS have much more than Corporal Solanin, but I hear that he has not yet received the rank and I apologize to the MPs. Solana's thinking about whether to assign him an act of corporal or not. He didn't exactly meet all his demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u498	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 105. The rules of procedure governing the maintenance of the session. Mr. President, you're the person who takes care of the order at the session. Please apply this Rules of Procedure. If you don't have a great presidential experience, you have a rich parliamentary experience. At the same time, I would ask you, as President of Parliament, to respect this country and to express yourself more carefully next time in situations where you wish to express your political favor to another country. I agree with Mr. Wolf. Serbia should not be a colony, nor a province, and the best way to go to Serbia is an effective democratic parliament, and this parliament is an expression of the effort of a policy to achieve itsafinities, transforming it into a Cossack Assembly. Don't do that, respect the Rules of Procedure. You will always have in us a correct opposition, a sharp, principled one, and let's return to the election of vice presidents and the establishment of assembly committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u500	I owe you all one explanation. I think you'll all be pleased. I didn't do anything past the Rules of Procedure. That's what Mrs. Comic knows. She's looking for a word now. Whenever she had something important to tell you, while she held meetings of the National Assembly, she told it in accordance with Article 225 of Section 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says the MP has the right to be informed of anything that could help him carry out his parliamentary duties. So, I'm waiting for you, and there's really a lot of work to do about Kosovo and Metohija, just to let you know, I'll let you know when some other telegrams, support or convictions of what we're doing arrive. I guess I don't want to hide from you, if anyone talks to us, and it really does do me the honor, I'm sorry, Mr. Canak, first Mrs. Comic will get the word, not to stand, to inform you that our choice was democratically supported by the Russian Federation. Not the choice of Tomislav Nikolic, but the work we have done in accordance with democratic rules and procedures. So if you want me to keep you out of the loop, I'll ask what number of MPs don't want a notice, so I'll let you know when I have some notice that you don't listen to that notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the authority of the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to carry out all his duties in accordance with the law. I believe there is no law, and especially not the Constitution of Serbia, nor any other regulation, which would allow the president's freedom to express his regret that we are not the Russian province. Look at the stenogram. The president of the National Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said that unfortunately we are not a Russian province, so we will not be a colony either. It is unacceptable for the president of the National Assembly to possibly announce that he is ready to discuss the conditions under which, while he is the president of the National Assembly, Serbia would become a Russian province or colony. Nice to meet you. Nemanja Sarovic: Why couldn't it be? ) Mr. Sarovic says – why can't we be a Russian province? So it's a political party strategy that's ready... I'm asking the president to give me a round of applause at the time specified for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u502	You have all the time in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u503	Thank you, Mr. President. So, once again, since it is obvious from these few throws that it is the political will of the largest parliamentary group, which supports the president of the assembly, to become one way or another Russian province, I will remind you, Mr. Vukic said I was lying and if I heard it, so I ask Mr. Vukic if he heard Mr. Sarovic, who said - what if he didn't, it would be very good to be a Russian province. I am pleased that both the Russian Federation ambassador and the Russian Duma welcomed the election, and I would be glad that you spent 45 minutes today reading telegrams and congratulations from the EU, around the world, from the Interparliamentary Union, from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, from the Black Sea Initiative and all international organisations dealing with parliaments, because this is evidence of the country's reputation. I ask you, understanding that yet the prize has arrived for your long-standing parliamentary work in terms of the position of the President of the Assembly, to forget all the wishes that you wanted to become president of the Assembly, to take off the badge and indeed what you say – you say on behalf of the free independent state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u504	Mrs. Comic, the Constitution of Serbia defines what anyone does, so it gives the government, Article 123, the right to establish and lead politics, and Serbia's president, Article 112, to represent the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. What I love and want, I want to tell you. You've told me what you love and want and no one will warn you here, and believe me, I wish we'd gotten congratulations from these Europeans today... (Gordana Comić, from the place: Our joint. Yours, yours. Let me have my opinion. You know, I don't know what motivated them not to congratulate us today. Indeed, I'm trying to find out what they didn't like about the procedure, the way they proposed, the way they chose. There's only one thing. It is likely that that is what the citizens of Serbia felt -- five million people watched the transfer last night. This represents the coming of the SRS to power. And this means that they won't be able to squirm and rip our country as they please. And that's why they're afraid of choices. Yes, no one will ever be able to do this country again, just like that, with a lot of resistance – yes, but with the consent of those who lead it, no one will be able to tear it away. You can say anything, but I won't allow you to interfere with my opinion. Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't understand how much time is wasted while we have so much work to do. I checked in on the agenda, i.e. Miss Natasa Jovanovic's election as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, I must once again express my great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u506	Mr. Canak, actually, the debate about this isn't open. Not yet, all the reporters have submitted proposals and have not explained the proposals. This is the nice part of the session. I really can't hurt the Rules of Procedure so much that you speak before the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u507	I couldn't hide that enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u508	Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u509	Dear Members of Parliament, I speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, concerns members 105 to 114, and since it is a whole chapter, I think it will allow me to not read all the members of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shane, did you hear me ask anyone? I ask because it's prescribed. (President: I would approve of you what others do not approve, let alone deny you something. Thank you. I believe that those who have long experience in Serbia's parliamentaryism, especially MPs who sit in these parliamentary benches for a long time, have listened to everything and everything. We're here in a new congregation, a lot of MPs here, like me, just a few days, but believe me, I'm not comfortable with the mention of someone's mother, someone's daughter, and I'm the father of two children. I really don't care when forces are demonstrated in this House in one way or another. It's a very bad message to the citizens, and here's what happens when the government does what it does here. BETA 8th May 2007, so today, in 12.02, the following is transmitted: Zrenjanin - six young men, men... (President: Mr. Shane, I didn't hear anyone swearing to someone today or talking about their daughter. I'd react. Remind me, please, when it was, that I could react afterwards. ) I would ask you to allow me to consider my exposure as I decide on it without answering your questions now, if you please. (President: Did you tell the truth or the lie? I can't let you tell the truth. I haven't heard anyone here say anything wrong about a mother or a daughter or a sister. Mr. President, allow me, if you will, to comply... (President: I can't. Tell me what speaker said that. ) This does not say in the Rules of Procedure, that I am obliged to appoint a speaker and an individual, but to talk about the situation in parliament. If you're taking away my word, fine. (President: You take away your own word. All right, I accept... (President: I'm just asking you whose exposure you're replicating, who hurt the Rules of Procedure? You must specify the name of the person who hurt the Rules of Procedure. I can't wait for you to tell me who it is, to get a sanction. I trust you and it looks like the way Parliament worked. But I want to perform in a different way... (President): So it's nobody. Here you go. Thank you. This is a direct bad message to the citizens, because Zrenjanin writes here – six young men, men, tried to enter the mature village of Djada in which Roma live and threatened them with violence. According to Dudara residents, police have repeatedly warned them that there is a hint of a possible attack on them in recent days. I wanted to say this: I said I was sorry when you were talking about the attack on the president of the SRS of Vojvodina. I acted in writing when Mrs. Vesni Pesic attacked her apartment, and we also addressed her to cooperate with her in that problem and the pain she had given her. I also expect the MPs of the Assembly to set an example for the citizens of Serbia by their behaviour that one tolerated community is being built, and I expect everyone to react to this behaviour in Zrenjanin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u510	Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u511	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we can just go through statements repeated in continuity by the President of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Nikolic, every statement you make is a new violation of the Rules of Procedure. In your last statement, you violated Article 2. Rules of Procedure. I think you are the first president of the Serbian Parliament in its new political history, who has managed to break that member as well. Your role is precisely determined by this article. You represent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. Please, help us all by telling us that you mispronounced yourself when you defined our country as a country that would be better off being a Russian province than what it is. I am sure that the MPs who voted for you did not do so with the desire to be deputies tomorrow, nor was the Russian Federation's congratulations motivated by the desire for Serbia to be a Russian province tomorrow. Do not ask us to cross over such harsh, wrong, bad and threatening political messages as you, as Parliament's president, are sending. Help the public of Serbia, say that you have misrepresented yourself or otherwise, allow Parliament to plead whether you have hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, and tell the MPs whether the MPs elected by Serbian citizens or who are MPs who will make the KGB goverier from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u512	Does Mr. Ivica Dacic, the proposing representative, want to explain the proposal for Vice-President of the National Assembly? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the SPS proposed, in accordance with the agreement of all the heads of Parliament clubs, as its candidate for Vice-President of the graduate engineer Milutin Mrkonjic, who was the director of the country's Reconstruction Directorate at the time of the bombing. I don't think there's any need to particularly explain his biography and his political role in the SPS and in Serbia's political life, but I would like to remind and address those who run political parties. It seems that there is no listening in this congregation when someone is trying to say what is on the agenda. If you want, I can talk about what's not on the agenda. In any case, I want to remind you of the good practice we have had, which is that we do not interfere and comment on human resources solutions and suggestions from other political parties. I would remind you that the SPS voted last time for proposals from all other political parties for vice presidents, because that's our joint proposal. I'd like to ask you not to open up to this groundless debate. Each party has the right to take advantage of what belongs to it and to propose to someone on behalf of that political party. I would ask that we do not show our pleasure, enthusiasm, enthusiasm, or disappointment to any public controversy in this place. I'd like to ask you one more thing. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are you aware of what we are doing here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Are you aware that we are directly working our discussions against ourselves, we are working directly against national and state interests and we are working directly against credibility and the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to ask you, when we comment on who's making any statements, we're not going from extreme to extreme. It seems to me that both President Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica have tried to make a bridge and good relations with the Russian Federation. There's no reason why now, because someone from another political party has expressed affection for that state, that we welcome it here with mistreatment, on the other hand. Serbia is Serbia, Serbia is not Russia, Russia said in 1948. Serbia is not America, Serbia is what our citizens say. I ask you not to work on our damages – that we do not submit to the role of Russia or America or any other great force in this world and that we do it against ourselves. So I ask you, when we de-polise and discuss each other, to take care of something that is above our party interests, which is what will be waiting for us tomorrow, and we will have a decision in the UN Security Council, and we will have the need to have normal relations with those countries. I would ask all MPs to try to adhere to the agenda, to solve the problem by problem and to complete this constituent session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I know it's hard when there's too much over-tumbling on the political scene and there's different political blocks, but this is a congregation, this is a political struggle, and here we have to try to beat each other and convince each other, not kill each other. And therefore, the SPS has proposed its candidate. We think of it best, and what we may think of others, remains for us and we will vote for each other's proposal, so tomorrow we will vote for DS, G17 Plus, Cedomir Jovanovic, however, as a candidate for the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because they have the right to do so. And they simply voted for that right and gave it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u514	What is it, Mr. Jovanovic? What about the Rules of Procedure? Excuse me, injury, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u515	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it's clear, Mr. Nikolic we don't understand each other politically, but I think we speak the same language and you can say to me that I am your political opponent, but you can't say for me that I don't respect you and I don't respect you as President of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. At the consultations you scheduled, I came just in time, took part in those consultations. At a session that you also scheduled, I came in time and I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure governing Parliament's work. I have asked you to plead and allow the possibility that you have mispronounced yourself, and I will not mention it in this debate any more, but if you remain silent about your statement that you have identified our country with the Russian province, that is to say, wanted it to be a Russian province, then I ask Parliament to declare it, because you have violated Article 2. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the work of this Parliament where it is said to - the National Assembly is represented by the President of the National Assembly. You haven't given me an explanation, you've kept my commercials off the Rules of Procedure. In that case, I ask Parliament to plead, so we will see if it is a lapus or if it is a concept. And I repeat, we can run our performances in different political positions here, but we need to lay down those basic rules that make this parliament a parliament. If citizens need to respect us, let's respect the institution that they should observe as such. We'll respect her by starting to work in accordance with some rules. These rules bind you and bind me and there is no insult in it, there are only insistences on a clear political relationship. Help us all, therefore, as MPs and tell us that you have mispronounced yourself. This has nothing to do with the respect of the Russian Federation, with our relationship to the Russian Federation, with our congratulations, which the Russian Federation has sent to this House. Our relationship with the Russian Federation must not be the relationship of one province to another country, but the relationship of a sovereign country that has its own political interests and, in accordance with these interests, leads foreign policy. So, once again, or plead by making it very clear what you were thinking when you expressed your regret for not being a Russian province or asking Parliament to find out that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. And I will do so at any time and in one where some future President of Parliament has expressed regret that we are not the 51st state of the United States, because we are not the province of another country in our environment and defending what we must defend, and that is our right to freedom and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u516	You have no reason to exaggerate. I wasn't chosen here to grant wishes. That's what they do at concerts or at some cheers. Now, for the first time, you've been specific, looking for a vote on whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'll fill that out for you. If I were to fulfill your wishes, Mr. Jovanovic, I would stay all day thinking of how I could still satisfy those wishes. In fact, Serbia is a sovereign state. For her sovereignty, I'm ready to shed blood. My family was ready to shed blood for sovereignty. Don't accuse me. It's your story, it sucks, and Serbia, which is a legal follower of the SRJ, is still in some relationship with the Union of Russia and Belarus, but you're not interested in it, you're not interested in any decision that any assembly before you are interested in. I hope so, and now I explain to you finally, that Russia will invent some way of joining countries that are against the hegemony of America and the EU. I give you my position as People's Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic. I don't run foreign policy, I don't negotiate with international organisations, it's not my job, but I am giving you my position. I will be happy if the idea of the SRS, rather than EU membership, has a majority in Serbia. I explained everything. Is Mr Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group...? What about the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u517	In Article 96. The Rules of Procedure say that when the President of the Assembly wants to speak, to explain anything, he must leave the post of office to the vice president or anyone, or to abstain and that later when it is over, keep the right to speak of it. So if the president comes around here with all of us who say, about as a schoolteacher with students, and he says to everyone, well you've answered four or five, but we'll see if you can fix it, that way we get into one funny paternalism, where we have one side of the president, and on the other hand we're all like students who need to answer that right or not. But while I'm here, it's true and I wanted to defend Mr Nikolic, that the SRJ Assembly voted the Union of Russia, Belarus and Serbia and that the act was never withdrawn. In this regard, Mr Nikolic's legitimate commitment to the latter option, which Mr Milosevic very much expected, as a single rescue, was hoping that no one would bomb us if we were in league with such a great force. And there's only one small problem, which the Russian Duma has never ratified, nor expressed any desire to be in a state alliance with Yugoslavia or Serbia, and then take care of it. It is legitimate to advocate, but it would not be good to have too many illusions and to claim that it is, but rather, a serious thing, that we have highlighted a wish at a critical moment, when Yugoslavia threatened the threat of bombing, which, unfortunately, happened and which, as we see from the papers, Jelicin could not prevent. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u518	Mr. Micunović, under Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give an explanation to every MP who points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but by article 96, when I want to participate in a search, I apply for a word, I go out for a pay phone, and I leave it to the Vice President. Now show me the vice president I would trust to lead the assembly. So it's absolutely impossible for me to leave this place without the Assembly continuing to work. That Mr. Canak knows very well, he was the President of the Assembly, and you were the President of the Assembly at a time when it didn't matter that a man knew the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mrs. Micic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u519	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I understand your happiness and your desire to do this well, to hold a session, but everything you've done so far is wrong and wrong. First of all, I agree with all my colleagues who have been making objections and I won't repeat them, but I'll just try to bring some injuries to the Rules of Procedure that are not undermining here. Namely, you have called on Article 225 as you have the right to give notice to the MPs. This article applies only to publications, see Section 2. It concerns you, in addition to the most important member of the 27 in which you are defined your duties, article 88, which says that the President of the National Assembly gives the necessary explanations regarding the work on the session and other issues. This does not mean that we are absolutely interested here by whom you are ready to shed blood, whose flag you would like to stand behind you, not the Serbian flag and what are your political views in the first place. So, if you are calling for no vice president, then kindly please refrain today, until we elect the vice presidents, so when you want to participate in the debate to give your political opinions, then answer the word. You've done another injury, and that's article 105. Mr. President, you can't interrupt the speaker because you think you have the right to determine the truth. You are only the first among the equals here, and you can only interrupt them if you want to warn them if they have strayed from the topic of the agenda, if they insult other MPs, not because they are not telling the truth. The truth is determined in court. It's none of your business. If it were the President of the Assembly's job, you wouldn't be a day from 2001 to 2003 in this assembly because you keep telling the truth. Of course, once again, you have injured Article 2 which states that the President of the Assembly represents the National Assembly. That means you have to take off that badge. In accordance with Article 37 of The wolf can carry it, you can wear the badge Garfield, Stalin, Che Guvara, Cece, whom you will, and Seselj, of course, but the president of the Assembly represents all the MPs and cannot carry the badge of Vojislav Seselj, who is in The Hague in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u520	Does this mean that I should also address you as to your wardrobe; your underpants, your shirt, your suits, since I represent you? Maybe you have a special model to wear or a brand? If you teach me how to run the National Assembly, Serbia will be in a state of emergency. You hurt your own Rules of Procedure when you said I was telling a lie. When did you determine what is true and what is false? (Natasa Micic, from the place: I did not fortify. Then how did you say I was telling the truth? Here, I can't wait for you to come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u521	When Mr. Srdjan Shane spoke, you interrupted him with questions whether he was telling the truth or not, and you asked him to confirm it, as if you were a judge. You have no right to do that. You're not the one who determines whether the MPs are telling the truth or not. In that sense, I also said that this is the authority of the speaker of the assembly – at the time I chaired parliament sessions, Serbian radicals would not be able to attend, as they keep telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u522	Please convey my words correctly at least. I asked Mr. Shane which MP used abusive terms, not whether he was telling the truth or not. May I remind you that you, as president of the assembly, have been disfellowshipping from a session of MPs who have not been to Belgrade at all? You didn't show up in court to justify your actions. So don't talk about it. Does Mr. Milos Aligrudic want to explain the proposal for vice-president of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u523	Thank you, Mr. President. The DSS is proposing MP Radojko Obradovic as vice president of the National Assembly. You got a written proposal, you got a biography, you got an explanation that I'm going to read briefly, because it consists of two sentences, and it's extremely logical, logical, and I believe it's acceptable for everything. Mr. Radojko Obradovic was born on 27.6.1966, in Zemun, completed the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Postgraduate Studies at the University of Belgrade. For the Messenger of the people, he was chosen in two convocations. He is vice president of the National Assembly from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has been very responsible in the past for the work of the Vice-President of the National Assembly and therefore we are confident that he enjoys great reputation in the parliamentary groups. We are sure that the work of the vice president of the National Assembly will do just as well as he has done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u524	I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I find that the time per parliamentary group is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of SPS - 19 minutes, 12 seconds; the Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes, 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - seven minutes, 12 seconds; the Vojvodjan group - LSV, SVM - six minutes and MPs - are not members of a single parliamentary group - one national MP - five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a hearing on a proposal to determine the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly and the proposals of candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, let's give Mr. Chank's word first, even though it might be a rule to talk about a bigger one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, as I spoke yesterday in the first part of this session, and now I must express my enormous enthusiasm and enthusiasm by establishing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I am really sorry that much time is wasted on these procedural matters and the remarks that are being made by the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that I think that for all Serbian citizens it is extremely useful and important that the sooner they get a clear picture of who is leading this assembly and what is the majority of the congregation. We've received suggestions, since we first need to identify ourselves about the number of MPs, I suggest that it remain as it was. That's what they'll decide, of course, by voting. But the three proposals ahead of us are absolutely the most impressive thing I've seen in the recent past. In the first place, I want to say that I am delighted with the idea that Miss Natasa Jovanovic will be the vice president of the Assembly, for the simple reason, which, when I think of the SRS, I think of Miss Natasa Jovanovic. This is an absolutely true example of the SRS, in the best sense of the word. So I think that she, as vice president of the Assembly, along with other representatives of the other parliamentary majority parties, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, formerly known in the restoration of the country, whose destruction came about because of, well, the situation caused by Slobodan Milosevic's regime, but well, and Mr. Radojko Obradovic, whom I don't know so well, even at one point, with Mr. Mrkonjic at the time of DOS, we had (where Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic) constructive co-operation in that he tried new transport vehicles of police in Novi Sad, marica, proved that we had one good and correct joint co-operation there, so Mr. Mrkonjic, I paid lunch to Mrkonjic when he came out of the marica – Ms. Jovanovic, I hope that you will perform the post of the Vice-President of the Assembly on the joy and satisfaction of all our MPs. I just have one thing to say, if you'll excuse me, it's an objection to Mr. President of the Assembly. In this type of statement that accepts candidacy, it says in the male race -- that I agree with the proposal to be a candidate for vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that's really correct. In terms of gender equality in this assembly, forms must also be made in the female race, which would then clearly underline the difference between men and women, because I think it is in line with all the standards that I hope you will respect in this assembly. Of course, Mr. Radojko Obradovic, from whose biography we have seen a unique home number of citizens, but that is enough. I thank the Members of the People's Parliament, indeed I will do everything I can to be constructive with this assembly. And, if I were in any position, Miss Jovanovic, I would certainly vote for you. Unfortunately, party membership does not allow me to do so, but our Social Democrats League parliamentary group, Vojvodina, will vote towards conscience. Someone here needs a hug.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u526	The word is Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u527	I've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, reminding you once again, and asking if we're going to open a debate, then we're disabled because you didn't propose your candidate. Yesterday, I didn't read the details of your candidate's biography as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because I don't think that's an instruction. It's your choice. You've defined yourself for him. You know we warned you to leave out those parts of your biography and you eventually left them out of your biography. Is that why we here now make fun of each other and disrespect each other by talking about other candidates? We choose vice presidents here together, you forgot that. All parties voted in favour of all proposals. Or we won't. Or then we won't have any vice presidents, because everyone will vote only for their own, or the parliamentary majority will, only they will have vice presidents. How are we gonna do this? I call you to, one elemental, so what we've done before, or we're changing some rules. I don't want to, and Mr. Canak is, of course, a witch and I know that he has a lot of ideas, and these ideas fell especially on him as he walked across bridges which, of course, he reconstructed and Milutin Mrkonjic. I don't think it's up to him to comment on candidates for vice presidents, because I wouldn't comment on any of his proposals, nor do I intend to comment on anyone, if that's how you want us to comment on all the candidates for these committees, so we'll say this isn't for this committee, this isn't for that committee. Therefore, each of these candidates was identified by a number of people in the election. If the SPS has the right to propose its MP as vice president, I think it's an elementary, good turn that at least we don't dispute that right. I didn't even realize that Mr. Chank was challenging any proposal, except that it reflects enthusiasm and enthusiasm, and I thank him for that, and I hope that he will vote for these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u528	Is that Mr. Dacic a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Ivica Dacic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u529	I really don't want to continue with Mr. Dacic, but don't get my attempt to point out, in a perhaps unorthodox way, in all the complex situation we have in this assembly. It's all the same as it was in 1991. We have absolutely the same situation and should be aware that this is a great day for Serbia, first of all, because we will have one electric chair back at the table, and in opposition another current in this country. These are two Serbs standing opposite each other. That's what I'm so excited about. Everything I said, I honestly said. Do not blame me for giving each party a choice of MPs, but when it comes to speaking of people who are to represent the congregation in general, it is something else and, of course, every MP has an obligation to state his opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u530	The word is Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u531	I have been in this situation countless times to speak similarly about a similar situation caused by some other parliamentary groups, not only this situation. This wasn't the occasion until now. In my little parliamentary experience and that experience from my colleagues' previous assembly, we didn't have a case like this. So, when we have on the agenda a choice of vice presidents, whatever any of us has to resent the elected president, that's legitimate. When it comes to the election of vice presidents, that's where some other principles apply. These vice-presidents represent parliamentary groups and confirm their legitimacy in the National Assembly. Through these vice presidents, unlike the president, which is the expression of some majority at the time of the vote which means something, and yesterday we argued about it all day what it means and had different views, it can't have different interpretations. This means only one thing – it represents and represents a certain group in parliament, and that is the original interpretation of that position, because in principle their number is determined, at the very beginning, as proposed today, and thus their composition is determined. So I can't tell anyone that there's something wrong with the Rules of Procedure, or that it's illegal, that I open up a debate and discuss it. It's definitely okay. Don't let anyone tell me: Mr. Aligrudic, we're right, you can't forbid us to discuss – because we don't think of it. I don't forbid it, but I have the right, as they have the right to discuss, I don't challenge them, I only appeal so much – that there is no debate about these proposals, because it has not been the case so far. I just can't imagine what the content of such an argument would be. You see, so far, the vice presidents have been elected, precisely for the reasons I have stated, not by consensus in parliament. For these two convocations of the congregation we had no case that it was different. I'm afraid it may not have always been, but good practice should be respected, because if we have come to one good practice and it has repeated itself in this home twice in a row, in some two convocations of the National Assembly, that in some third session we are now returning to some long-standing bad solution. I don't think that's good. So the idea is next, and the next thing I know, we should try to choose the vice presidents by consensus. I can understand and fully respect the position of certain parliamentary groups that are not ready, I believe, for political reasons, which they have explained and the explanations, to give candidates for vice presidents at the moment and that's fine. I'm afraid that, about the candidates who were proposed, we're going to vote in any way in the National Assembly, that that's not good. Then I fear that voting may lead to certain unwanted results, regardless of what we talked about for days, as we spoke yesterday and today in the National Assembly. In that sense, I'd like to appeal, and don't you realize that I'm threatening something or that I've taken a certain position on this, but I've just expressed concern. I simply, if possible, appeal to the MPs, I do not know what will be the content of these discussions, but let's try to refrain from discussing these proposals tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u532	The replica is wanted by Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u533	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I just wanted to say something about what Mr. Canak was saying. I do not challenge him at all the right and any MP to comment on any person, because he has the right and everyone has the right to his own opinion and to say that he, both from this and that parliamentary group, should not be a vice president or a member of any committee. I only call on and remind myself of a good custom that we had in this assembly, which is that we do not comment on each other and do not enter into who he has proposed to certain places belonging to political parties, which are the post of vice presidents and board members. The presidents, vice presidents and committees themselves were elected by agreement. Otherwise, we'd get into a big problem if everyone commented on everyone, everyone would vote for their own, and we'd lose the meaning of the agreement on this topic. That is why, on my part, it is one suggestion, in addition to personal sympathy and antipathy, that we refrain from these mutual comments. As for the Socialist Party of Serbia, we will vote for all candidates for vice-presidents, no matter what party proposes them and for all candidates for board members, no matter who suggested them. Tomorrow, since this is an agreement, one vice-president will also have the Democratic Party, party G17 plus, Liberal Democratic Party or minority party, however, we will not say a single word about any candidate of the other party for those functions and we will vote for them. Of course, when voted, the second question is what will any of us be talking about in daily political work. So my controversy with Mr. Chanko is not at all related to the challenge of the right to think what he thinks about any candidate, I would just invite you to focus on work, in accordance with the good rules and customs that we have cherished in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u534	He has the word National MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u535	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is very important to define a relationship with something that has been defined through the performances of my predecessors as respect for some democratic rule. I agree that there must be questions that MPs will have, not absolute, but sufficient agreement, among other things, and the opposition's right to have representatives in parliament's presidency and in the assembly committees. I believe that the precondition for calling for some democratic rule is the existence of democracy, and democracy is not built by equalising on 5 October and 12 March, Chetniks and Partisans, MPs and MPs, but by establishing a clear system of values. This system of values is not rounded up in the period of democratic changes that have changed this country, but this process of building a democratic system of values has brought our society closer to the state in which we could count on the respect of this democratic rule that balances on certain issues and government and opposition and abolishes the parliamentary relationship between the majority and the minority. We have made it very clear during yesterday's consultations that we will not give legitimacy to the established parliamentary majority, because it was established through the trampling of that fragile system of unfinished democratic values. That also confirms today's debate. The question is then what are we looking for in parliament, and representatives of other parliamentary groups must answer that question. We are experiencing this parliament, in practice, as the only place from which we can send encouraging messages to Serbian citizens and citizens, the only place we can address firmly convinced that we will be faced very quickly with the choice that has recently been denied through different policies of mutual co-operation, co-habitation, coalition and agreement on allegedly large-scale state issues. We heard that the parliamentary majority was established during yesterday as an expression and evidence of the Serbian state's seriousness. But the parliamentary majority, on the basis of the results, is today actually denying the Serbian state, by refusing the president of Parliament to declare, or clarify his desire to transform the Serbian state into a Russian province.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u536	Mr. Jovanovic, what's your problem? I gave you my word as head of the parliamentary group to talk about candidates for the vice presidents of the National Assembly, and you insult the National Assembly by saying that it depends on you to have her legitimacy and that you will not give it to her. She has legitimacy with 126 MPs. Respect the dignity of this National Assembly. Please talk about candidates, not your wishes, about what's been going on in the last six or seven years. That we don't have democracy in Serbia, if there was any guilt before you, you've been in power for seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u537	May I ask you, Mr. President, to tell me how much time I've spent on my ten minutes in which I speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u538	You have again from zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u539	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce you to your rights and obligations. You're not the ones who give me the time, and you're not the ones who can take that time away from me if I use it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, please quote a member of the Rules of Procedure who I have injured, and if you do not understand me, I will be happy to repeat to you what I have said so many times in the last two days. We do not want to give you the political legitimacy that is meant to consent to the LDP to participate in the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly Committees. Because it would be an agreement to a policy that has destroyed Serbia, a policy that balances good and evil, a policy of conflict, conflict, further collapse of fragile democracy, a policy of denying the fundamental principles of freedom and independence of our country, which we very much care about and that is why we are very clear. Neither today nor at any other time, at which this parliament will seek LDP's support for agreeing to the political majority, which was established through the equalisation of 5 October and 12 March, the LDP will not provide that support. I think it is important to speed up the political process and allow citizens to enter the elections as soon as possible. And after these elections, we can talk again, through mutual respect and respect, which will be an expression of our willingness to accept the election results of citizens who knew what they were voting for. I am sure that on January 21st, citizens did not go to elections with the ambition to see at the post of Parliament's president the person who is leading the parliament as a Kosovo assembly, who is plowing with MPs, who interrupts them as they speak and who thinks he owns the parliamentary time. You weren't Mr. Nikolic, you can't be at this point, and you won't be, because we don't give you the right to do something like that and we don't give you legitimacy. This is not a democratic parliament because there is no democratic legitimacy whose guard we are, and you are enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u540	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I have listened patiently, I do not know what Mr Jovanovic is so nervous about, although Mr Nikolic clearly told him that Serbia is a sovereign state but that he advocates other integrations, those who will not take away our territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as these of yours are taking away from us. I must warn you, Mr Jovanovic, I agree, the Serbian Parliament will not be a parliament of anyone's own, not even Russian. But there will be no extended arm of the ballistic gang, which you represent here in the centre of Serbia, and which you are helping in every way to separate Kosovo and Metohija from us. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm tired of listening to your nonsense. I'm tired of hearing you lecture us on democracy, that you lecture us on democracy. We, who get six times as many votes as all of you together in that group, so now a few MP groups of you come from, are not democratic representatives, and you are because you have ballistic support, but not in rockets, but support from ballistics, so that people understand better – Ceku, Thaci and all the others who finance you and who give you money to destroy the state of Serbia. You're going to tell us about democracy something. You say here - you will be the guardians of democratic rights in this assembly. You, who have destroyed the democracy of the Serbian Parliament, who brought the dictatorship to the big door, who boast about burning Parliament, you who at every divine moment only know that you repeat it on October 5th and March 12th. I have to tell you, on October 5th, I kept listening to what it was. I know someone says the murder of Zoran Djindjic, then I'd know. I'm sorry, not everyone in this country has to know exactly every date. Yes, it's a tragic event that killed Zoran Djindjic. Don't forget, he was killed during your reign while you were on a ski trip. Mr Jovanovic, to remind you, today is one of the defendants, just today – this morning, we saw it, whether it was yesterday or today, said that you had obtained a weapon for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I didn't say it, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm not saying it's true, Mr. Jovanovic, I'm just saying they say it today, and you mention that date too often, I haven't gotten it, or anyone from the Serbian Radical Party. You, Mr. Jovanovic, don't give us that lecture. But, one more thing, these ideas you're talking about, which you represent, will never be our priority. Support for ballistics – it will never be accepted by the SRS. I remember two statements by Zoran Djindjic, I can't remember them anymore. One is, "Whose morale goes to church?" It will never be an SRS policy, but it will be a high moral, serious and responsible policy. I remember another sentence by Zoran Djindjic, workers, or miners in the Borski mine: "You don't have to work in the mine. Well, what now, you got fired. Plant some peanuts. You grow peanuts and you live on peanuts." Peanut policy will never be an SRS policy. Our system of values will never be a system of peanut values. But it's a democracy for immoral peanuts to be your system of values, and for us some other values to be incomparably more important. I don't mind what your peanut pillar system is worth, instead of workers and miners doing their job, peanuts are much more important. It's okay, but don't make us all do it. We have a problem in Serbia today. I wanted to get out of here, answer it a little sooner. He was spoken of here by a folk MP, I think he's Mr. Canak. He said here: I am particularly happy to see two Serbs today, one here - one there. So now we have to kill each other, about. We're serious and responsible people, we can't kill each other. We can't do that, not because of us here, we can, we'd be looking forward to the people, watching both of us wasting our time because we can't do smarter things for them. People can't do that. That is why Serbia must not be divided into these two parts as some imagine. That's why it's normal for everyone to participate in the distribution of vice-presidential posts, that everyone gives their people to assembly committees, and no, we don't like what's left of you today, so we're not going to give you legitimacy. Well, tomorrow when you win, we should say, well, we don't want to enter the National Assembly because your National Assembly has no legitimacy. How long? How many conflicts in Serbia? How long's the fight? As long as preventing different opinions and disrespecting a different political will, different political arguments. It's time to stop it in Serbia. We want a normal Serbia in which political opponents at the elementary level will co-operate, in which you will come and say, yes, I am Cedomir Jovanovic for an independent Kosovo, I am Cedomir Jovanovic against Serbia, I think Serbia is better without Kosovo and Metohija. We say - it is against the constitution, it has no right to do so, but it is said in Parliament and for what it has said in Parliament it cannot bear criminal sanctions. Our opinion is different. We think Serbia is the territory that contains Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. Then you say: I do not love you because you are against my ballistics, Ceku, Thaci. We tell you - we don't love you, because you love your ballistics who are for the secession of our territory, and there is no great philosophy. Then I will not speak to you, for you are the purest and the most honest, and not the most honest. You don't have to! It's the replica. I don't know if you noticed, I don't know why you're so nervous. Mr Nikolic had recently allowed and even returned time to the beginning and told Mr Jovanovic that he could speak as much as he wanted. I see that you are in pain and affecting my words, because they are true, because when you led Parliament, you did not lead Parliament, but, unfortunately, you acted as a cattle market, so you treated the MPs, you bought them a kilo of live scales, sold to a kilo of live scales, from Branislav Ivkovic's parliamentary group of DSS, MPs of all other political parties. The time of the cattle market in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed, and the time of ballistics in the Serbian Parliament will never come.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u542	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u543	Mr. President, I hope that over time, which the parliamentary majority will certainly provide you, you will begin to apply the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which is injured. This is not a place to prove our patriotism, nor to respond to the political views of those MPs we do not want to give legitimacy, among other things because of these political views. This is a situation where we would once again like to express our concern over the way Parliament is established in Serbia. When the last time today's dominant parliamentary majority was able to decide Serbia's fate, Serbia lost Kosovo. Today, there are still people living in Kosovo, Albanians, Serbs, Roma, and we want to make that life better, better quality, within the limits of real opportunities for Serbia itself. With this policy promoted by the parliamentary majority, I fear that the Serbian Parliament, having taken Serbia's right to manage Kosovo, will make life practically impossible for Serbs in Kosovo. That's what we're worried about, and that's what I'm asking you to think about again. All other questions must be answered outside Parliament. The crime of any kind must be sanctioned and cannot be sanctioned in Parliament, but must be done before the institutions of this country, in which we believe. In front of these institutions, I am ready to always appear, and I hope that these institutions will have the strength to have other MPs, who are next to us in this House, face the works they have left behind. The works described Serbia as Europe's most unfortunate society of its time, as a society where it was dangerous to be a journalist, as a society in which it was a sin to be a political opponent, as a society in which it became normal to kill its political inexperience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u544	This is all in the Rules of Procedure. I can no longer find you a foothold, just enough to tell me – Rules of Procedure. I think I'll be able to reach the democracy Borka showed last night.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u545	If you'll excuse me, I've reached out to the replica. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not an accident to dispute in this way the democratic procedure of the vote of the president of a parliament, at this time of the Serbian Parliament. Not by any chance. If it's about this gentleman... and a Romanian citizen in business are together, reselling cars. I apologize to the viewers and the MPs, it's only because of the indifference of a prominent Democrats who can resell cars, so he makes a bit of money, he's a bit of a cheat on the citizens. Let me explain what this is about. Yes, some mind stability in Serbia, some at all costs, now that we talk very seriously, if we don't talk about their cerefeks daily, some mind any stability in Serbia, some mind any institution. It's a very simple reason. It's no special conspiracy. The simple reason is seen in the next -- those who are helping those representing themselves as democratic Serbia want Kosovo and Metohija's secession, want to take part in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They are not responsible for this parliament's functioning, they are not responsible for the Serbian Parliament's existence at all. We'll go back to killings, not to forget, Mr. Jovanovic, to answer you about it, so when we count them, we'll count them more in your time, than in earlier times, I condemn everyone, both in your time and in that time. But in the end, you will see that, even when you count people killed and cases, you will have much more to count in your time, all with Milan Pantic, a journalist, killed in your time, and never found, the same as the murdered Slavko Curuvija, in our time, if you call it that. Not to talk about Gavrilovic, who doesn't know who killed him, and there are reasonable doubts that some political actors are involved in something like that. Not to mention, as you can see, there are serious indications that some politicians, close friends of Zoran Djindjic, are involved in his murder. The defendants are talking about this today, about arming murderers, etc., if it's murderers or maybe some other people, who will know. But I came here to explain, first of all, to tell the citizens why this haika and haranga and against Tomislav Nikolic and against the National Assembly took place. Because it doesn't suit them that Serbia can provide any legitimate and legal response to their illegal action to take our territory. Immediately this morning, on TV B92, on this agency of theirs, they showed all the worst, told everything they could about Tomislav Nikolic, about the Serbian Parliament, about everything. And why is that? They know that at some point, criminal accounts will have to be paid to the competent state authorities. I, dear friends, brought here to show you something you've never seen before. We talked about this, but you didn't see, I brought it all with my signature. This is your lease contract, the National Bank of Yugoslavia from Belgrade, King Peter, represented by Governor Mladjan Dinkic and RDP - Radio B92, represented by Director Sasa Mirkovic. The contract concluded at 10 years, shows you here, for the tenant Mladjan Dinkić and the signature – Dinkić Mladjan, and here Sasa Mirkovic, this one signed with Cyrillic and this one with Latin. You can clearly see, a copy of the original but criminal contract. Namely, the price of the rent is six times lower than the price that can be obtained immediately on the market, at the same time at one of the most exclusive and best places in New Belgrade, at ten years, on a huge space rented. It's 3,474 square meters. According to that account, more than 11m euros were stolen together. Eleven million euros?- I'm sorry. I wanted to ask you, dear friends, is that some kind of magic number for you 11m euros? Those with B92 steal 11m euros, this 'Vojvode of Meridian Bank' 11m euros!- I'm sorry. Is there someone less than 11m euros in stealing from you? It's a system of values we want to bring down, and that's the system of values we're fighting against. A lot of peanuts, the Dukes of Meridian Bank, a lot of B92 robberies and Mladjan Dinkic, and that's what Serbia needs to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u546	He's got the word, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u547	Mr. President, my report refers to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the replica and initial statement by Mr. Vukic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure concerns you, Mr. President. You are under the Rules of Procedure in charge of maintaining order in the Assembly. On the contrary, you have become the main remethyling factor in order to maintain order in the congregation. In what way? You don't have to be cynical and sarcastic, because it doesn't suit any serious parliament. So, Mr. President, you're allowing one MP to insult the other in a pay phone display. You allow some of the MPs from the parliamentary group whose members you are also a member of the entire vote to cast insults on a speaking MP without your reaction. When MPs of your parliamentary group exceed the time allowed for replication, you do not react or interrupt or warn them. Mr. President, you're breaking in to the MPs, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Every speech and every presentation of the MPs of those who are not at your disposal, you have commented. If you want to speak, answer the word, that's what the Rules of Procedure says, and get out of the box and get your attitude out of here. I completely understand, and it is politically legitimate, that a representative of each parliamentary group uses a pay phone for affirmation of ideas and views, beliefs and principles, or a program of their party, but I remind you that you are the president of the National Assembly. You are the president of all MPs, and it is not directed, when you already have the head of the parliamentary group, that you are in every way a little abuse of the function of advertising your party. In doing so, you made one mistake: you said that last night’s meeting of the congregation was attended by five million people. No, there's people from RTS. Between 18 and 22 p.m., about two million people followed the Assembly, from 22 to two, just over a million people. You said that you chaired the way the SRS would return to power, that is, take over. Just one lesson from the past. Then when you were in the coalition with the SPS, JUL, you lost power. Now you're back in one of those, or similar coalitions. Now a few words for Mr. Wolf's exposure. It was that old matrix that led us to this point where it led us, dividing us into patriots and traitors. Only traitors have different mentors. It used to be NATO, sometimes America, sometimes Western forces, sometimes get up, and now they're ballistics. Mr. Vukic, you're a serious man, it doesn't give effect, Serbia sinks deeper and deeper. I use the opportunity in this replica to remind you that when you and those partners were in power of the Serbian Parliament, I was an MP and I know it well, he never discussed Kosovo and Metohija. Never! Seven times as an MP, I've tried to launch an initiative. You remembered Kosovo before the election. Then it became the cradle, the root, and the bottom of the eye vision. And after that? Well, then it was forgotten. Parliament and most European states and the Parliament of Europe themselves discussed Kosovo and Metohija, but never the Serbian Parliament. At the time of your government, there was weapons, the financing of Albanian separatists in Kosovo and Metohija. At the time of your government, their parallel institutions, both the assembly and parliament functioned. Remember Yusuf Zeinulahu, Ramsay Kolgecio, Bujar Bukoshi. It wasn't during Doss's time, but at the time of the previous one, in which you had a share. At the time, there was an expansion of the eviction of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. If you were a credible government, why wasn't it stopped? The Contact Group's proposal, the G8 Group's proposal, was ignored, in negotiations with Albanians. Let's remember those smiles in Rambouille, in Paris, and finally there was a capitulation in Kumanov. Kosovo was lost in 1999. As DHSS MP, as part of the LDP parliamentary group, I can always talk about it with you. Once again, I appeal to you most well-meaningly, let's stop this division of patriots and traitors. It will not take us anywhere, Serbia will fall more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u548	Mr. Batic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You've brought forth a series of historical lies. If he thinks he's talking about Alexander Vukic I won't, but you were talking about the SRS, well, if Alexander Vukic doesn't think about talking, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u549	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, Mr. Baralic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not particularly smart to remember everything, so I wrote down a little bit of what Mr. Batic said. So, Mr. Batic, in Rambuje none of the representatives of the SRS were and we were against smiles and everything else. As far as the SRS is concerned, you will never find anyone's statement from the Serbian radicals that we have won a NATO pact somewhere or anything else. On the contrary, we criticized the Kumani Agreement, including Resolution 1244, which your friends later refused to fulfill. One more thing, you say, Mr Batic -- and then funded projects are illegal in Kosovo and Metohija. Yes, very similar to today, it's just a small inversion today. Today they're funding you. No special difference. In the past, some foreign circles have funded them, and today they finance your coalition. I ask if you can tell the citizens of Serbia which of your members met with Thaci and Ceku. What were you doing in Pristina? What were you doing there with Albanian separatists? Who went there and what conversations? Why don't you talk about it to the citizens of Serbia, why don't you let them know about it? You say -- he spoke to Agim Ceku, however, the day before yesterday at HRT and drew you up and said that you are the future, not you personally, but the coalition you belong to, that this is Serbia's future. I respect that Agim Chehu thinks so, but let me disagree. I don't think in Serbia, the political future can ever have those that Agim Ceku thinks have a political future. That's what we're different about. The SRS was the only one in the National Assembly against the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. All Dosovo parties at the time, the first DS, with its public statement, read in Dnevnik TV Serbia, supported the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin and Kumanovski military agreement, which was a partial capitulation. But I'm surprised that DS was partly supportive, she'd make a complete capitulation, so you were probably dissatisfied. You were also dissatisfied with Resolution 1244, which nevertheless spoke of the sovereignty of the SRJ, namely that KIM is an integral part of the sovereign territory of the Republic of Serbia. I don't have any problem with you talking about what they were doing illegally at the time, the Kolges and everyone else. Yes, there were many problems both in the security services and in the military, both at the political summit and elsewhere, but they were working illegally then and they knew that they should be guarded and feared by legal and legitimate Serbian authorities protecting their territory and their people from terrorism. Today, terrorists have become soldiers, at least that's what this uncrupulous corporal in Solanu says. He says the famous and greatest terrorist Agim Ceku, a prominent soldier, met him accidentally in the fog because of the fog at Skopje airport. That's the whole truth. He even boasted himself saying, "He met him, it was only passing through, he accidentally found himself." You say, Mr. Batic, that's when the biggest eviction started. True, and perhaps today the Serbs do not settle in KIM because your friends Cheku, Thaci, when I say yours, do not personally think of you, do them great good deeds. No, Mr Batic, only today they flee and retreat and have no hope of returning, especially if Kosovo gains independence. I know that the easiest thing for you to do is to narrow it down, because everyone who calls themselves on that side is brain concrete somewhere in 1995, 1998, or I don't know what year and you still think this is 1998 or 2000. Seven years have passed since the burning of the Assembly, seven years have passed since you lynched some people, beat some journalists and so on, on the streets of Belgrade. Seven years you rule, seven years you haven't changed what you wanted. It's our fault again for something 15, 20, or I don't know how many years ago. You want Broz to rule for 88 years or you want to live 128 so you can rule 88 if he ruled 40 or 35. What's this about? You're talking about dividing on patriots and traitors. You make it every day, you're some kind of advanced European, very smart, educated, lots of fancy, and I don't know what, and we're retrograde, conservative forces. We have the president of Serbia, the corporal "little of Solana", so today says - progressive forces to win. It's the worst CK dictionary from 1955. Right? I see some people who would never say that in public agree. The worst CK dictionary – progressive forces and retrograde forces!- I'm sorry. That's what the President of the Republic tells you. Are you talking about these divisions? Don't tell us about the divisions, when you make them every day. When you went out earlier and said -- great, here, now you can see the split into two Serbias. We, we have one Serbia and we don't want two Serbias. We want those of us who think differently, who think differently, not to hate each other and to live in a single, normal and undivided Serbia. And for such a Serbia, we will fight, not for two Serbias, not for divisions and conflicts between us, not for progressive and regressive, not for advanced and conservative, for God's sakes, but for the most regressive and conservative or the worst possible in all respects those who are drilling into the chest that are the most modern, the smartest, or I don't know what kind. I think the time has come for us to live normally in Serbia, to respect political differences, but not to continue making deeper and deeper trenches. The fact that we're fighting here, not by misery. Don't mind that television watching five million people in total shares, and in more than 15 minutes 3 million people, it doesn't matter, and that 300 thousand people, don't think that all of our passions and everything we've said to each other or everyone else, didn't make an impression on the citizens. You want this to happen tomorrow on the streets of Serbia? We won't do it, we'll never do it again on October 5th, that no one ever lynchs anyone on the street again, that no one ever, ever, ever, burns Parliament, but that we have a normal country, that we all live normally and think about the future of our children. That's our policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u550	I watched it from here when anyone answered. This third-class gentleman, I don't know his name. Please introduce yourselves for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u551	Mr. President, I'm advertising a full breach of the Rules of Procedure in the following parts: Article 103(1). – The speaker can only talk about the subject, Article 101 of Article 4. – the replica cannot last longer than three minutes, Article 101(2). - you can't speak offensive tones. I would, indeed, well-intentioned, Mr. President, advise you, we are similar years, I have led many boards of directors, Mr. President, you are the President of Parliament, this is not the main committee of the SRS, and we are not one faction, so that you fight politically. I'm asking you to put a point on the agenda, so let's talk about who wants and how much they want. Otherwise, I ask you to protect the Rules of Procedure, because you are a speaker, you represent the National Assembly, and you need to protect all MPs. I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u552	Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u553	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have long since come up with the reasons why I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, but in order not to make anything unclear, Mr. Jovanovic, you might think that you are a very far-reaching source of justice, that you are giving legitimacy. You have injured members 103, 104. Rules of Procedure and Rule 100. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, MPs have been elected in direct, free, party elections, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. The legitimacy of the MPs and the National Assembly is being drawn from the electoral sovereignty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Each of us here represents 15, 20, 30,000 adult citizens. It is legitimate that you are giving a political view on certain issues, but someone, far away, might think that it depends on you to have any legitimacy, any mandate. People's MPs are the bearers of the sovereign will of citizens, they are the sublime, political interest, political will, and you here are used to saying that from the position of the high titlers, the significant position and one of the actions, which is taught where you studied, you distract people that, to God, you are here, you are saying whether they are legitimate, and the others are not, using a political pay phone and, all that you are in double zone with Natasha Micic, the air-headed and the mime, so you have led, otherwise, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are trying to present to Serbian citizens that what depends on you in this country is not dependent on anyone, neither on you nor on your MP group, nor on you as a national MP. For all of us, we were voted by the citizens, for some 250,000, and for someone 1,000 thousand. Either you, Mr Jovanovic, derogate the elemental principle of democracy - one man is one vote or you think that those who voted for you are more legitimate than others, or perhaps you are disgusted by the voices of those citizens who voted for other electoral lists. So it's time, Mr. Batic, my ally, yours isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u554	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u555	Mr. President, I was in session yesterday, which lasted 18 hours, asking what was the purpose of this session and what was the real purpose of the new political alliance. I must admit, I expected you to hide with more cunning the real intention of what's going on here right now. You want to turn this assembly into a free campaign transfer and you're already in a political campaign. He spent more time in replicas than maybe half of the MPs. And you chose him as the man who does it the hardest. You want Serbia to listen to these wonderful talks for two months now and thus have a free campaign, and you from that place, the president, can handle it with a conductor's stick. I just want to tell you that I have read that strategy, and according to that strategy, we will find an appropriate remedy to defend democracy, to defend parliamentaryism in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u556	I beg you, Mr. Micunovic, don't judge people by yourself. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. If you did, it didn't occur to me until you told me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u557	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think citizens have reason to be pleased, two policies are primarily profiled here. So, one Serbia that will not be a serious and happy country, until the policy that is here today in the nominal minority, and the valuable majority, gets its approval in the elections. I agree with everyone who spoke of themselves as representatives of the citizens. I will not challenge their right to be defined in such a way, but only one short and simple truth. You will never get our policy in the democratic Serbian Parliament, you will never get our partnership in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, we will never agree to equalize the birth of democracy in modern Serbia, which symbolizes October 5th, with its murder, which symbolizes March 12th, 2003! Serbia today cannot be a democratic country just because it has 250 representatives voted for by citizens. Serbia will be a democratic country when it agrees with democracy, the right to a different opinion and our freedom that we most resolutely defend when we say that we do not give you the legitimacy that citizens have given us and that, regardless of your numbers, we oppose the politics of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u559	Mr. President, I must warn you that you are doing one very serious thing. You are violating the most specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is that you and your party are equating you with Parliament. You have repeatedly warned the various MPs here today not to abuse them and not to disrespect Parliament, opposing politics and your party. It is indeed one serious thing, because this parliament is not in any case the SRS and it will not be. So, Mr. Wolfie, you'll have your chance, this is your manners, of course, we can't wait. The second thing, please do not explain to us from your presidential speaker and do not share or abuse the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to give us arguments. You can only give me an explanation if I'm looking for it, and on other grounds, please don't talk to us like that. I see you've got great hosts and housewives here. You're probably doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great, and you're doing great. Let me tell you, I understand why you choose Mr. Mrkonjic, you probably need and you want this all before the deadline to happen and everything in a more likable way, but it certainly won't happen. I want to tell you that our people have a great folk proverb, and you who believe so much in the people should remember it, which says, Mr. Wolf, listen to what our people say, don't repeat it, which says this way, "Don't humble yourself, don't carry yourself for good." It seems to me that you have acted too much with this momentary success, and the more you perform in this way, the more you throw, the more you push people's MPs, the more you say ugly words and the more you treat this home the way you treat yourself and abuse it the way you treat yourself, starting with your president, to all 80 of you and how much you are, the easier it will be to unite democratic and civil Serbia, young people who are eager to wait. I just want your replica, every time you show up, we'll get a few points to jump and a young man will stand up to your policy. You haven't become a Cossack Ataman yet, and when you do, you'll be able to talk like that. I admit, it would look nice on you, but when you do, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-08-0.u560	With great pleasure, I invite you tomorrow at 10 o'clock to continue this story. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Riza Halimi, Laslo Varga, Nenad Canak, Andrea Galgo-Ferenci and Vladeta Jankovic. The word is from Mr. Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
