ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4748	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on ratification of the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures. Serbia's customs service applies seven international conventions, one of which is the one that lies ahead. This convention came into force in 1974, and then Yugoslavia joined it in 1982. Since 1974, the Convention has been applied to date and it has been concluded that its improvements and modernisations are possible, so a revised Kyoto Convention, which took effect on 3 February 2006. Serbia is in a situation where it is now considering the revised Convention and, practically, its ratification substitutes this basic convention that was adopted in 1974, so that, in general, it is more technical than essential work. So we have an international convention that has changed and we need to ratify it now to continue to use it in this new revised form.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4749	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Here you go. There's a word from MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4750	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure before this debate begins, pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you and the citizens of Serbia that there is a voluntary blood donation in Serbia these days, in co-operation with the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Belgrade, Television B 92 and the Red Cross of Serbia. I don't think these actions should be spoken of as the most noble actions humanity can carry out in the 21st century. I believe that blood giving is one of the most noble human traits, that it is to give its part of the body, its tissue to another, and thus help, more than love for man. I believe that this action should have neither political nor any other connotations; it should overcome all the division of people, that all the people help each other. What really surprised me, as a promoter of this action and a voluntary blood donor in Negotina, is that in actions of this type, political reading is shared. It's about Dr. Zoran Djindjic's assassination book. I really don't mind a person, but I don't think one of these political actions should be mixed up with a guy like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4751	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4752	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, within this item of the agenda, I would like to say that our parliamentary group will support the proposal of the Ministry of Finance. I have nothing against this initiative, but, Mr. Minister, we ask you to answer one very important question, given that it is an institution within the jurisdiction of your ministry. What were you led to when you appointed a new Director of the Republic of Customs at a government meeting Thursday? What are the professional references that both you and the Government have conducted in selecting this particular personality for the new Director of the Republic of Customs? Please answer us whether, during his professional career, today's Director of Customs has compromised the rules that are very important to us as LDP, in violation of the laws during the performance of the previous job. Namely, we have information that the newly appointed director of Customs is one of the persons who kidnapped the journalist of the foreign policy newsroom "Time", during 1992, Dusan Reljić, illegally held him in isolation for two days, conducting an illegal investigation, to then, removing him from his head after two days on the street. From that moment on, journalist Dusan Reljic does not live in Serbia. This is one of the events that dramatically affected our everyday life at that time and especially pointed to what would happen next. What were you led by when you appointed the staff of Jovica Stanisic to such high functions? Please answer that. It's very important if we introduce such important international standards. Let's say they start to respect themselves through personal politics, which the government and you insist on. Please answer that question. If it is not about this person, I will publicly apologize, but we have the facts that Director Carina Petronijevic is one of the people who kidnapped journalist Dusan Reljić in 1992, kidnapping him on the street and keeping him illegally and unlawfully in illegal custody for more than two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4753	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4754	Dear MPs, I simply must inform you of one situation, which is that, although the government had an obligation, i.e. the Ministry of Administration, to call elections for an extraordinary assembly of the Roma National Council within 45 days of the legislator's vote, until today, this has not been done, although we of the Roma Party have proposed to the Minister of Resorship to assist him in this process. He didn't accept that kind of thing. We don't understand why the Ministry, instead of calling the snap elections, is trying to convince us that here, in a few weeks, it's going to be a regular election, so come on, go back to the regular election, because, apparently, we're better off. That's an extremely big problem. It's a thing that's illegal. In this way, the Ministry of Administration directly influences the exercise of self-government rights in the fields of culture and other areas within the competence of national councils. That's inadmissible. This can have extremely big negative consequences and the issue of the readmission process, because a number of Roma national community members want to say that Serbia, by violating the rights of the Roma National Council, is not ready to accept people from the readmission that should return to Serbia, that it is not ready to integrate the Roma national community, and that we have done everything in this direction. I'll tell you what, 40 days ago, with a parliamentary question, we were looking for an answer to that. Instead of telling us that they're gonna cancel it, they gave us a lesson on the board, you all got it, how it's done under the law. When we warned them that we'd collected enough signatures, they said they'd find it. Now they don't know where he is. Then I don't know if the Ministry is capable when he can't find the paperwork. Then why don't you accept our help? It's all this situation, or it's something else in the middle. Perhaps this is because some of the presidents of the Roma National Council supported certain things in the campaign. I appreciate it and respect it, however, it is unacceptable. We can't involve national councils in political bickering. Simply, the right to choose is constitutional law and we need to discuss the elections. In that direction, I would ask the chairman of the Committee on International Relations to call the Committee's session urgently and call on the Secretary-General to give us a quality answer. I'm here for 20 seconds, and since the current finance minister is here, I'd like to ask him next. Although we suggested, although you were well-intentioned, although you accepted to separate 12 million for the systematization of certain jobs, etc., director of the Human and Minority Rights Service simply won't do it. He's telling us that there's no possibility that he's requesting that 5% of these appraisals be determined to systematize new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4755	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4756	Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, under Rule 226, I would like an answer to one question. So, once again, I must point out what the president of the LDP Parliamentary Group stressed, that we will support your proposal, but I also have to ask you what led you in the appointment of Mr Petronivic as Director of the Republic of Customs. Please answer that question, and if not, at least tell us what time you'll give us the answer to that question. Whether it will be today, whether it will be in seven or 77 days, we as a parliamentary group want you to get that answer. If we're wrong, we'll publicly apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4757	Thank you. Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4758	Ladies and gentlemen, there are usually more questions to be asked, so it answers, but I believe this is more questions, since more MPs have asked them. Here, I'd like to give an answer to the extent that I'm capable of doing it. So, the finance ministry is relatively complex and one part of the ministry deals with law enforcement, that's these administrations. When I came to the Ministry, I, seeing what the problem is, concluded that when it comes to administrations, first of all, I think of two major administrations, is one for customs, and the other is the Tax Administration, that there is a need to find people who are largely managers, and to a lesser extent have to be experts in their work. In that context, I chose the Secretary of State, who was assigned to take care of all these administrations, in principle, and to unite their work. In consultation with the State Secretary, the proposal came in order to require certain staff changes, and the proposal also discussed the Customs issue, as well as the setting of certain new personalities. I had a chance to see Mr. Petronievich's CV and what was brought out here in that CV I didn't find. That's why I can't answer the question whether it's true or not, but I can say I heard what you said. On the other hand, bear in mind that, after the proposal, the Staff Committee has considered the issue and I assume that it has had much more insight into the entire history of its work so far. As far as the profile is concerned, I think he's as good as a profile, given that the Customs Administration is potentially a place where much more control is needed. You've had the opportunity to get acquainted with the fact that there was an arrest of the Customs Mafia, etc., so, as far as the profile is concerned, Mr. Petronijevic is fully fit. I supported my deputy in that proposal. The Staff Committee has reviewed everything, and if some new elements appear now, I can't make a statement about it, I can only take that as information to be further checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4759	Please, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4760	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, of course we have an understanding of the situation in which you have found yourself. We have no reason to doubt your sincere and best intentions. I expect you to check the information we've introduced you to and inform us of the complete truth, without any compromise. As for the way in which the holder of such an important function came to be resolved, it is clear that he was not the best, because you as a minister can definitely not answer the basic questions of a professional biography of a man who does such an important job, especially given the fact that he should remove the failures that occurred in the work of the previous service. If you've spoken openly about them, then there's a question of responsibility for something like that. I don't see that the people responsible for the appointment of the previous Director of Customs were carrying any responsibility for the chaos left behind, and it's obvious that the condition you described cannot be defined differently than chaos. So it was an institution that functioned in power, and then, the finance ministry, or then Minister Dinkic, today's minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So if Customs didn't function well then, we're interested in the responsibility of whoever was responsible for the normal functioning of Customs, which wasn't characteristic of the previous period. As for the brief observation that the professional profile corresponds to Customs affairs, the situation in which Serbia is located is so bad that we would have to take care of the arguments we use here, asking for further arguments for some of the decisions that have been made previously. It can't be a fact that someone was a State Security worker that is crucial in choosing a director of such an important institution as the Republic Customs, unless we think we're creating a police state. Well, then both in Customs, and at the University, and in Parliament, and in the Government, we should put, in every place, key functions, people in the regime who have criminalized this society to the point that we today cannot clear these consequences. Thank you for your explanation. It is not completely and cannot be completely, but we expect you to give a very clear answer to that question, because for us it is unacceptable, especially given the proposed agenda point and the debate that leads us to modernising and improving the work of state customs, and we cannot go beyond the fact that the director of state customs is a person we suspect that she participated in during the 1990s in the kidnapping of journalists of the Time List, the weekly "Time", Dusan Reljić, who later left our country and no longer returned to it. We can introduce you to the details of this kidnapping, which the journalist Reljić was talking about, but then it would be completely out of our mind, we do not want to interfere with the work of this session. I expect once again, tomorrow the government will be here, to answer that question, we have plenty of time for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4761	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4762	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I fully support Mr. Srdjan Shane's presentation, because I've had several occasions to speak to the representatives of our government and I've received a promise that it will be done, because it's an obligation to comply with the laws, regulations, so, if we will, and the Constitution. I get the impression that very often, unnecessarily, a situation is created that contributes to an ugly picture when it comes to the Roma in our country. However, there is that saying, perhaps the best formula for Gete, "the worst are those who ruin the best". I must say, because I was once a member of the Democratic Party, since its establishment, and I had the greatest confidence in the Democratic Party, that the situation is such that individuals are increasingly disappointing me. From this place, I am now addressing the citizens of Serbia and my people, warning that Mr. Rasim Ljajic must forget that he is using Roma for his personal political needs. I'll talk about it next time, but this time, I'm asking Mr. Ljajic to let it go. On the other hand, it is an explicit need to form a national council, for two essential reasons. The previous council was such that half of them were organized criminals. I told some people, you arrest them. If you don't have the courage to arrest thieves from your parties, start with thieves from the ranks of my people, it may be a good path and an example to get rid of that evil. The second thing, please, is 40 degrees now. Let's go and see how this people live in cardboard boxes, no water, no electricity, no bread, no nothing. I was in winter when kids were freezing milk on their lips. I wonder, folks, what is it and what degree have we finally come to when we don't have an elemental compassion for human suffering and for human distress?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4763	Thank you very much. Your time is up. There is a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4764	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 226. Also, not wanting to repeat the same question to the finance minister, because apparently there's not enough information about the personality of the new Director of Customs, I hope they get it. But what are international conventions worth to us, Mr. Minister, if Customs is a matter of crime, corruption and nepotism? If you don't know about the new director, I'll tell you something about the former director and how Customs worked. I expect you to answer that question. This is a letter by the President of Loznica Municipality, called Vidoje Petrovic, otherwise, member of G17 Plus, sent to Mr Dragan Jeremic, director of the Customs Administration, in which, all of this, with a memorandum, an accounting number, etc., says - the respected, according to our agreement, I present to you the proposal of three candidates for admission to employment in the customs office of Sabac. The Director of Customs Administration responds - consensually. He signs, and that's how people are hired, according to party membership. It's anarchy and chaos. Obviously, nothing to anyone. So I ask you, not wanting to repeat what's already been said about Mr. Petronievich, because I have no direct knowledge of whether anyone has been kidnapped, we're closing in our tents or trunks, and I hope you'll answer. I ask you to check these details to determine the true truth of both the current and future director of the Customs Administration, because only if the situation in Customs is arranged and if it is not the case of crime, corruption and nepotism is the purpose of ratification of some international conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4765	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an opportunity, when some law in the field of finance is on the agenda, to be honored by the minister who plays Ramses, about, rock his face, listens to what he's told, doesn't react, and when he responds, in fact, he discovers the essence of the problem he seems to be facing today, he shouldn't close his eyes. We shouldn't put this aside. There's a charge that, on the party line, in one of the most important places in the country, a man who has been involved in crime has been admitted. The minister says he needed a manager for that place, which I can accept. Then, if he had been told about the candidate by the secretary of state at the ministry, which I cannot accept because I know it's Mr. Djidic who has no idea about it and I don't believe it's true, he wouldn't have interfered with it, because he knows who's supposed to be the director of Customs. And then what's major and important about Mr. Secretary's exposure, which says -- you know there was a crime at Customs Administration before, we've now brought in a police officer to be head of Customs Administration. Well, if you know the basic principles of the organization of a society, cops don't become directors, ministers and presidents of the state and government. The police are working at the MUP, which is where they control whether someone is involved in crime or not, suggest measures to prosecutors, prosecutors accept or not, all of this goes to court and then determine whether they're a criminal or not. And now you can prove to me that the police have to choose people in responsible places in the country, because they're the only people who don't steal and who can fight crime in companies, Mr. Minister, so you didn't care at all. You were told by the Democratic Party who must be Director of Customs and you forwarded it further. You don't even know who that man is. You say I read his CV. You want him to write you here every MP of his CV, you won't find any problems. The CV's writing company. Don't laugh, Minister, I'd like to write your CV, it wouldn't save you, Zabel, for at least five years. The CV writes the environment and society, not you. What did he write to you about his successes in the service of national security, I'm very interested in? How much did this country save us? Mr. Minister, don't get over this easily. How they made you do it, how they made you into us, so they made you one, the other, the third, the fourth, and that chain, that spiral is being spent all the way. You'll come out here to talk, you won't convince anyone, but you don't care. You're counting on one term, you owe it to this party who's allowed you to hit the state for the last seven years, you owe this party one term, and then you'll get out of the way, just like everyone else. We don't need people like that in this congregation to account for us. We need people who will be in front of the public their whole lives, about whom the public will be able to say their opinions and who will be able to say – that's me. You just come and go, we continue to worry here, the state goes down more and more, and you care about the CV of the one you're being proposed. You're even humiliating us here with that CV. That's where you use where you've learned, where you've been taught. You weren't born with that CV, nor did you learn what it was in college, nor at work, but they put you in the last few years to watch someone else's CV. And so the CV man comes to you from Homeland Security, you say -- he's an extraordinary manager, and there'll be no more crime in his company, no more theft in Customs. The Assembly must not pass through this. I think the Assembly should also make a decision whereby the minister, as soon as possible, will inform all MPs whether the charges were made for this speaker or not, and afterwards, we remain to look ourselves in the eye again. You won't be able to ruin the country much, but I'm very glad the public will find out what kind of personnel you're after our country. The funniest thing for me is when those who have done the same since 2001 have been pushing, now criticise the phenomenon, and Roma representatives ask that we solve all problems, try to solve them first, then go public with heavy accusations of discrimination against the Roma people in Serbia. I, who truly belong to a party who would like to see this government immediately in the opposition, cannot fully agree with you, but give me the evidence, so we can discuss it. And whether advice has been formed or not does not mean that discrimination has occurred yet, but that Roma interests are cared for by people with whom you may not be in agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4767	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Munir Poturak has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4768	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, a heavy indictment has just been made against the president of the party where, the Sandzak Democratic Party, Mr Rasim Ljajic, in the sense of calling for him not to interfere in life, I am in the Roma's problem in our country. What I would like to say to Mr. Djuric is that it is important how much each of us has done for anyone in this country to live better. Whether one of us is going to accept it with his heart or to roll his sleeves and show it practically depends on how organized someone in a community is and how far in his own program he's drawn in which direction he's going to go. It is important for us that people who have years of experience, from this pay phone, pass on to all citizens in Serbia, encourage them to be able to show who they are, what they are, who they intend to live with and how they want to live here. And Mr. Rasim Ljajic, I think, at the time of the Federal Assembly's term of office, has shown how much Roma have shown their political awareness. At that time, two or three new parties were formed, and this was a sign of the awakening of the political consciousness of the Roma. At the time the "Decade of Roma" was launched, at the time Roma, and as representatives of communities, and as representatives of NGOs, visited many institutions in Europe and showed what they had seen here, in the area of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, as a problem. I think in that context, if we're already saying that we're disappointed in some people, it would be good to show some good and some bad side of a certain personality. For this reason, I would like it to be motivated, by the awakening of hope, influences, especially among the national minorities, because we, in fact, must thus show our life in Serbia and we must encourage each other. From here, these 250 people, we MPs, represent Serbia regardless of whether we came as representatives of national minorities or from a majority bloc. We share what we say from here, we send a message together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4769	Thank you. People's MP Miroslav Pejic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, then Laslo Varga's MP, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4770	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Vice President, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. There have already been several mentions of the Loznička Municipality and Mr Vidoje Petrovic. Mr Batic, who came to Loznica several times by 2004, I would ask him to stop by Loznica again after 2004, and see what Mr Vidoje Petrovic did for Loznica. He managed to bring in several historical documents for Loznica, such as the general urban plan, the strategy for economic development of Loznica, a spatial plan. The password took a big step forward. Mrs. Radeta, I'd like to ask you not to throw it away, because you won't de-concentrate me. Infrastructure projects have moved forward, Loznica has received the first foreign investor "Golden Lady", so I would ask Mr Batic what is immoral about Mr Vidoje Petrovic's recommendation to employ four workers at Customs. What I'm saying is that none of those four workers are from G17 plus. Also, speaking of morality and morality, I would ask Mr Batic, at a time when he was the minister of justice, was it moral that he suggested that the President of the Court be his schoolmate and member of the Democratic Party; this gentleman, who had served for four years, was also convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4771	Thank you very much. Mr. Laslo Varga, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, then Srdjan Shin, Rajko Đuric and Spaho, also, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4772	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'd like a brief notice from Mr. Secretary. The budget law and the Minister's promise set the amount for funding the work of national councils, a total of 82 million dinars. After that, on June 5th, all national councils held coordination and decided on how to allocate these funds. It's been 20 days and they haven't started paying off yet, so I wanted to ask when it was going to happen, because in the earlier period these donations were always at the beginning of the month, and now they're 20 days late.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4773	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4774	I want to speak in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. First of all, I wanted to refer to Mr Tomislav Nikolic's exposure, I don't know what part of the exposure was, whether he was exhibiting a colleague, Rajko Đuric, or mine. I've always been very clear. Serbia is well-intentioned, Serbian citizens are well-intentioned. However, we cannot say for all the holders of the current authorities that they are well-intentioned because they do not respect the law. It is Serbia's current, official policy. When I talked about it, I talked about those representatives who officially represent Serbia's policy, and I didn't say anything, and I apologize if it's misunderstood, about the relationship between Roma and representatives... Thank you. Secondly, I would ask the minister to answer our question, he probably missed, and the question was very clear: whether there is a willingness in the Ministry of Finance that out of the 23 million apropriety provided for by the Office for Human and Minority Rights, or for the Service, in accordance with the law, 5% of these funds are allocated to finance the systematization of new jobs in this part of the government, because if we do not, the Roma integration process will lead us to NGOs. Do we want the politics of NGOs to lead us, or do we want the state, in its structures, to take responsibility, to systemize jobs? That's the essential question. I apologize for speaking to you, Minister. I'm still convinced it's not your position and it's not your failure, but the director of the Human and Minority Rights Service interprets it that way. I would ask, in that direction, that you help us get out of that dead end and explain ourselves to people who are constantly holding back some processes in Serbia. I would like Mr Tomislav Nikolic to hear this, therefore, refers to those individuals who do not want the people to translate into Serbia's current policy, but instead of their own will, are turning their personal interests into Serbia's official policy. We now have a situation to report 180 electricians, which say - we want to appeal to the Council of Europe, the OSCE, and we from the Roma Party tell them: Stop, Serbia has the strength to solve the problem within the institutions. The question arises whether those who want to internationalise the problem are right, or whether we are right about the problem being solved within institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4775	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Djuric called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4776	I didn't answer about the Rules of Procedure. I want to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4777	You don't have the right to a replica, but you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4778	Of course, it always makes me happy when someone stands up for other peoples and national minorities. Besides, it's the obligation of people who are conscious of the community we live in. I must say that those who think that others can represent national minorities are deeply wrong, because Roland Bart, the famous French philosopher, said, "Paternalist is the second face of racists." I've made sure of it countless times. Of course, I have enormous documentation relating to members of the National Council and, as a man, I say very responsibly that, thanks to the patronage of individual politicians, criminals from the ranks of my people are chosen, first of all, because mine, like any other people, has "lighters of freedom" and "ports of demons". But someone keeps wanting to have people from the demon bow, not the one where freedom beacon is. So once again I ask that thing to be solved in the spirit of the Constitution and the law. Otherwise, we will be forced to come out with very specific data and documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4779	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4780	Ladies and gentlemen, the Loznica has been mentioned, and I come from Loznica. The Serbian Radical Party is the opposition there. For two years now, it's been those who have come out that have been talking about jobs, crime and corruption. Those who exercise power for two years, from 2000 to 2003 and from 2003, speak. Not only the G17 plus, there's the DSS, I can even say that the Socialists are in the coalition. From such a city, the town of Drina, next to Kučev, a rich city, became the poorest. It's been going on since 2000. We kept talking, and at a congregation pay phone in Loznica, that this power in Loznica was not adequate without the SRS. We could control it all the time, and we agreed on what to do. They wouldn't listen to us, and it's normal for Loznica to become the poorest city. Mr. Batic came out and talked about jobs. When he and his party have been in power since 2000, the only thing they've done in Loznica is make 20 millionaires.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4781	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Minister Cvetkovic, in the opening statement, says the secretary of state has proposed to the director, Carina Petronivic, after these words, everything is clear to me. Now I'll tell you, everything eventually connects and everything turns out to be true. I'll tell you who Miodrag Djidić is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4783	Let's get some order into this. This is, we'll agree, absolutely pointless what we've been doing since ten o'clock. Let's at least respect something that's right. So, when you get out, please, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you're calling for, for the record. Let's at least do that, since we talked about the Password, customs, etc. So, Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4784	Who's Mr. Djidic? I'll tell you now. Miodrag Djidić comes from the municipality from which I, therefore, am from Kruševec. Mr. Miodrag Djidic rents a gym in 1995 at the Krusevec High School.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4785	I'm sorry, Mr. Duvnjak, this really doesn't make sense. You don't have the right here to talk about a man who isn't present, a gym. Read me a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured and tell me which part of that article is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4786	In accordance with Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4787	Please adjust your argument to the fact that you have called for Article 226. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4788	In 1996, police in that room revealed a large amount of weapons. In 1996, a house assistant of former Jastrepca's former director, Mr. Djurkovic, was killed. After that, a complete situation is being covered up, no criminal proceedings against Mr. Djidic are under way. At the same time, Mr. Miodrag Djidic deals with the sale of funds that are not allowed...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4789	Thank you very much. I'm taking your word. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4790	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I set up more than two weeks ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4791	Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, Mr. Halimi?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4792	Article 226. I asked the minister of infrastructure two weeks ago about the illegal monopoly provided by Belgrade-based Interspid, within the framework of the commercial content of the Presevo border crossing. There is no answer, and there are excited spirits, there are petitions, which more than 1,200 citizens have sent to the highest state authorities, which seek to respond to this illegal practice at the Presevo border crossing. Today, since the finance minister is here, realizing that in the customs service and the monitoring services at the border crossing, in the 16 years since there has been a border crossing, no Albanian is employed, I ask if there is any legal criterion that prevents state authorities and services from being multiethnic, since on the other hand, on the Macedonian side, such practice has been introduced long ago, and this is a common world practice. In addition, since the issue of finance is probably also connected to the economy, I ask the question - if for this municipality, Corridor 10, the border crossing, the main resource, what is the state's plan to include this most underdeveloped municipality in the state scales more intensively in modern flows and in economic flows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4793	National MP Dragan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I think you've broken it harshly, not only the Rules of Procedure, but you've shown in an inappropriate way that you are not the president of the Parliament, but a representative of the Democratic Party in that place. We had opportunities to hear people who went out to advertise, according to the Rules of Procedure, certain things and who said things that we could say were not about the agenda, but about some of the problems they wanted to highlight. You didn't interrupt any MPs, only you broke up with Mr. Mojèle Duvnjak twice, and eventually you took away his word. And he wanted in a simple way, arguments and facts, to the National Assembly, MPs and the public, to say that Miodrag Djidic, current state secretary, president of the DS Municipal Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4795	Mr. Todorovic, tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure I broke. You must first tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure I broke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4796	Article 104 - National MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Don't you think the President of the Assembly is a National MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4797	Of course, here you go, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4798	I don't understand. Come on, somebody teach you something. He just wanted to say that the state secretary, known for the crime he committed in Krusevec, the state secretary designated for Customs, has now proposed Petronivic, whom we also had the opportunity to hear, accuse of crime. And if that's nothing new when it comes to DS, not just DS, we've had a chance to hear about G17 here, etc., for the ruling coalition at all, says this letter, Mr. Chairman. I hope that you, as a member of the DS, will have the hearing to hear this, because maybe this will help you sort out these problems that occurred right after 2000, when you hired both your feet and your hands your members, family members, etc., wherever possible. I will read you a letter from the municipal board of DS from Vranja, not even, which was sent to the Democratic Party in Belgrade, the Executive Board, and to the president, Mr Mark Djurisic. It is said: "Dear Mr. Djurisic, I would like to report to you on the situation in a concrete proposal for the Human Resources Decision of the Republic of PIO, the Vranj branch." As far as you're concerned, there's no confusion. It's the way you function. So he says, "In fact, the director of the PIO Fund, the branch of Vranja, is Dragan Janjic, former DS member, the chairman of the Municipal Committee and the MP of the DS in the Republic Parliament after 2000. "What happened? Meanwhile, your member, he did not escape, in a situation where he was given the opportunity, offered more, he left, continued his party career in the Democratic Alternative at Neboja Covic and remained the director of the PIO Fund until today. But DS representatives from Zrenjanin say it's not good, that such a personality is still in place because it left the DS. Then it is said: 'We have a candidate who is very positive in the city and who is very strong in representing DS, and this is about a young man, by the profession dpl. Economists, I will not speak his name and name, which has taken over the party as a trustee and with the team that has since emerged made very good parliamentary results." That's the point we're pointing to here. I know that's what's hitting you, but you have to make sure that you treat all MPs the same way. These are the facts we're telling you. I understand you don't like them, but it's just like that. That's why we own the papers, we own the evidence. Therefore, please apply the same archaic to all MPs in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4799	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to give an answer. Mr. Todorovic, there is an obvious difference between the way you put what you wanted and the way Mr. Duvnjak went. Clear, for that reason, to respect something that should be right. So what you've done is totally acceptable. What he did here, Mr. Momchilo, is not acceptable, I apologize, but it's really true. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic called, then Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4800	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if anything is unacceptable, then it's certainly Mr. Dulic's behavior. I don't know, Mr. Dulic, what happened to you on that trip you had the previous days. Now you will remember, probably once again, and I have said that I will repeat it until the end of your term as President of the Republic of Parliament, that you have stated that you are in Belgrade and Serbia on temporary work, that you have come here to show us that there is no shame in being nice and cultural, that there is no shame in being tolerated. So, Mr. Dulic, I understand that you may not have too much experience in the work of the National Assembly, but the moment you accepted the assembly's leadership, you were either obliged to learn the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you should apply or, at least, to learn to use the help of the secretary and several deputy secretaries you have. You've violated Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Here, I will quote: ''The measure of confiscation of words shall be expressed to the People's MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, which shall also be a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106. The People's Messenger, who has been told the measure of taking words, is obliged to get away from the pay phone without delay. ''So, Mr. Dulic, if you wanted to take away Mr. Duvnjak's word, and clearly there was a great fear of what he wanted to say, you had to find a way to give him two warnings before. Whether you like it or don't like what some MP puts behind this speaker, it's absolutely not of any importance. What matters is that these MPs, as Mr. Duvnjak did, respect the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. You are not authorized, as does Article 103, you are not authorized to interrupt any speaker. Article 100(2) also tells you that you are not authorized to ask anyone to make a statement in advance, from place or from wherever, of any member of the Rules of Procedure's injury. Therefore, there is an obligation to specify a member, but certainly not at the beginning of the exposure. For that each MP has three minutes, not counting the time it takes for quotes, and it is a matter of style and speech of each of the MPs at which point he will fulfil that obligation - whether it will be at the beginning, in the middle or at the end of the exhibition. You must either show patience or, Mr. Dulic, go, and visit those countries that you have visited in the previous days, and let us work in a normal, tolerated and democratic spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4801	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, and then the National MP Vladan Batic, appeared. Mr. Maras, Mr. Jadranko, you're all on board. So, we're going in order of reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4802	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I knew that if Mr Dulic had accidentally asked the National Assembly if he should go to the parliaments of these surrounding countries and we had told him - not at all, it would have been much better. Because you obviously didn't learn anything there, and you don't have anyone to question that. It would be better if you had studied the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Dulic. It is true that during the presentation of the Duvnjak Boy, you injured the members of 100, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have no business right, no authority, Mr. Dulic, to assess whether you like the way someone, some MP, exhibits what they want to say or don't like. Here, if you ask me, I liked Mr. Momcell Duvnjak much better than Dragan Todorovic. Dragan Todorovic expressed his position and attitude to the SRS in general. It is understood that as soon as someone is "yellow," he is also a criminal. But Momcilo Duvnjak knew how to specify specifically, he tried to indicate the traits of Miodrag Djidić, a recent MP, and now the secretary of state, and you banned him in an anti-business way. If you think, Mr. Dulic, that you are able to from that place, or anyone, from the SRS MPs, prevent the citizens of Serbia from informing about your every crime scene and every criminal within your party, you are wrongly wrong. We will go out until we can tell the story of Miodrag Djidić to the end. Now, I find it very interesting, and I don't want to talk to my colleague Duvnjak like this, internally, about it, but I would very much like to share his knowledge with the citizens of Serbia. Because Serbian citizens should know who they voted for, they were probably in error then, and they should know who they should never vote for again, as well as who they are able to go to this place and inform the public of everything they are obliged to do as a MP. Mr. Momcilo Duvnjak, in accordance with Article 226, tried to find out what he referred to here as claims, and you, Mr. Dulic, are contrary to the provisions of Article 107. Rules of Procedure, that's impossible. I insist that in the day of voting, the National Assembly declares members' injuries, so 100, 104 and 107. I would very much like to see who will vote that the 107th member is not injured and which of the MPs, by their vote, in the voting day, will confirm that you have the right, what you took for granted, to judge. I apologize for forgetting to ask if you like the way I speak. If there's any problems, let me know. Make us a synopsis, best, and there'll be 250 synopsiss here, so I come out and I find what you wrote down for me, I read it, so it's the way this Parliament works. He can't do that, Mr. Dolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4803	Thank you very much. I'll give you the answer, and I'll give you the answer for Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Article 106 says, "The warning is made to the People's MP... '"I think there was a reason for the warning, just a second: '... which, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, if the speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech, if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if it uses swearing and offensive expressions.' I have to say one thing, I don't know if it's been a practice in Parliament so far. I violated a member of the Rules of Procedure when I took Mr. Duvnjak's word because I did not give him the warning measure twice in a row. In doing so, I believe there was a reason for the warning. I told him once. I didn't tell him another time. I warned him, so in the voting day, even if I asked the MPs to find out that a member of 107 had been broken this time. I still think that the way Mr. Duvnjak spoke of a man who is not there is not correct and is not something that should be said for this speaker. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic, then MPs Slobodan Maras, Jadranko Vukovic and Nemanja Sarovic. (Free Marash stands by the pay phone: you said you'd give me your word. I said I'd give you an answer, as did Mrs. Verice Radeta. Here you go. There is a word from MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4804	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Pejic clearly misunderstood my words and...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4805	I'm asking you to lay down a rule, say which member is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4806	I picked up half an hour ago for Mrs. Pejic's replica that mentioned me on several occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4807	So, here you go. Mr. Batic, you were angry, and you expressed your anger by raising the Rules of Procedure. I've given you my word in the Rules of Procedure, because if it isn't, you have no right, as long as there is a debate on the Rules of Procedure, to get a word, or a right to a replica. Please quote a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4808	Article 104. Let me start talking now. So, I understand that party membership has conditioned Mrs. Pejic to stand up in defense of her party colleague, Mr. Vido Petrovic, but I have presented something that is an exact data, a typical example of abuse. The president of the municipality cannot address the Director of Customs Administration, and they are party friends, and to say, with all the memorandum of the municipality -- in accordance with the agreement, receive the working relationship of the people on the list, and he does. To justify that, Mrs. Pejic says that man has done epochal things. Be careful, in Europe, in the 21st century, she says of the urban plan that this is a historic event. What a historic event, let the citizens of Loznica say. This urban plan has made a complete traffic collapse in Loznica, there no more traffic can work, schools are blocked completely, total chaos has been made. So much for history. Furthermore, 18,000 unemployed are the balances of the local government, led by Mr Vidoje Petrovic, and the highest unemployment rate is in Loznica, except for employment by the principle of party membership. The degree of democracy confirms another detail. In the previous elections for Mayor Loznica, Mr. Vidoje Petrovic beat Dr. Zoran Nikolic with a lot of police use, all members of the police and police apparatus, as the man was previously chief of police in Loznica. We'll see what happens in the next election. Dr. Zoran Nikolic will be our candidate, so there will be opportunities to face each other in a different way. Why has 8,000 signatures of the Loznica citizens been challenged for calling a referendum on Mr Petrovic's impeachment, and that's the fact, and then he came along, changed the electoral commission, and rewarded the president of the new electoral commission that achieved the validity of those signatures? That's how this government works and what is the historical range of a man headed by SO Loznica. Branko Babic, former court president in Loznica, is mentioned. I didn't suggest it, of course it was a time when the Court of Loznica was decent, when it started to look like something. That can be confirmed by all the citizens of Loznica. So it's a fake and the truth is that he's been convicted. He had a conflict with a member of the JUL in 1992, but all the citizens of Loznica can only speak positively about Mr. Branko Babic as a man, even during his post as District Court President in Loznica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4809	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slobodan Maras, then by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4810	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I wanted to advertise Article 104 and draw attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, about article 27. Rules of Procedure, LDP MPs today, every time they went out for this pay phone, quoted a member of the Rules of Procedure whose injuries they advertised and asked Minister Cvetkovic a question, in accordance with Rule 226 of this Rules of Procedure, because we had the need to ask whether Mr Petronijevic was that, is Mr Cvetkovic familiar with this information. You took the right of yourself, after taking away Mr. Duvnjak's words, to evaluate the conduct of the MPs so far, so, from 10 hours, you literally said that behavior is pointless and that what is happening in the Assembly is pointless. We don't think that's pointless. We used our ability as MPs to ask a question in accordance with Article 226. I ask you no longer to judge our conduct in this congregation in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4811	The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I will first inform you what kind of answer I received from the Serbian government and its ministers on questions raised, parliamentary, June 20th 2007, and I will ask additional questions, as I am not satisfied with the answer. On June 20th 2007, I asked a question concerning the procedure for the resolution of war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic. I cited several arguments, and the key is that we did not get an answer to the question on which General Tolimir was transferred from Serbia to Republika Srpska, without a decision by the Belgrade District Court, which is the only one in charge. Now listen, ladies and gentlemen, the answer. The government points out that Republika Srpska's MUP has repeatedly made statements on the arrest of General Zdravko Tolimir, so the general public is familiar with the relevant details. I'm not a Republika Srpska MP. So the Serbian government and its ministers must answer the asked question in the Republika Srpska Assembly. They tell us, answer us -- read the paper, and I don't care what the minister of the Republika Srpska interior said. I'm telling you to see what our government is like, this uninformed government. I asked the second question the same day, and it's about not taking any of the same prosecutor's actions in two cases, the murders of our soldiers, the former JNA, Sarajevo and Tuzla. I won't read the answer, it's long, but I didn't get it, that's all. I got a response from the people who were notified, unlike the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So, they answer to me that an agreement has been signed between the war crimes prosecutor's office in Belgrade and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as activities are being taken to collect and other necessary evidence in the ongoing investigation before the Belgrade District Court, etc. What's the point? The government is co-operating with the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is another proof of what the government's intention is to sign that agreement on parallel special ties is extremely dishonest to Republika Srpska. The evidence is that in Tuzla the mayor, then Tuzle, Naim Beslagic, was the head of the crisis headquarters, who directly ordered the killing of 200 soldiers and JNA's elders in Tuzla. The Beslagic was awarded by the West for some humanitarian and peace-making jobs. This government is forbidden to work on this matter. So that's the Tuzla case. As for Sarajevo and the deaths of soldiers and elders in Sarajevo, nothing is being done by our authorities, though our authorities have evidence that Ejub Ganic ordered the murder of soldiers and elders in Sarajevo. He was then the deputy president of BiH. So, ladies and gentlemen, you've seen how this government is responding and how it presents incorrect facts on all parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4813	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, in connection with the Rules of Procedure, and then Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dolic, you've broken a few minutes ago and a member of the 100. The Rules of Procedure, in particular paragraph 2, i.e. paragraph 3, which says that after some MP points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly is obliged to give an explanation. I went out and pointed to the violation of several members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, first of all, of article 107. I explained in detail how you did it. I have finished my presentation, and you have your obligation to give an explanation of this completely disregarded and gave your word to the next MP, Mrs. Verice Radetti. So, Mr. Dulic, you are obliged to provide an explanation after every reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What is undeniable is the fact that you took away Mr. Momchil Duvnjak's word, although there were no possibilities, according to the Rules of Procedure, for that. Article 107 is clear, and it's an imperative norm, you can't wander there, so there's no room for your free confidence or for deciding whether you want to do it one way or another. The measure of confiscation shall be expressed to the People's MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, and which thereafter makes it an infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106. You tried to deceive us all in this room and those who watch this in direct transmission after the Veterans were exposed, saying that you were wrong because you had made only one warning to Momcilo Duvnjak, and you were not two, although there was a reason to take away the words. So you only made a mistake in the technique. No, that's not true, Mr. Dulic. Don't make us take the stenograms. You didn't give a single warning to the Duvnjak, nor did you have a reason for that. There's an exact procedure. So it can't be disputed for a moment whether you said it or not. That must be quite clear for all of us. If you give any warning, you are obliged to say, in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 105, I pronounce Momcila Duvnjak, or this and that MP, a warning, and then say, because of the violation of Article 106, so state which one is it. So twice, if someone, eventually, continues to violate the Rules of Procedure, then only after that can you express the measure of taking away words. Admitting that you violated the Rules of Procedure, simply, Mr. Dulic, is not enough. Why? Because this situation of breach of the Rules of Procedure continues to take place. What would be correct and what you are obliged to do, as president of the National Assembly, is to say, after my first presentation, it's true, I violated the Rules of Procedure. Because this is the way and the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you drag all of us into this debate. She had to come out of the Faith of Radet, so I have to go out again, and so on and so on. Here, now she's gonna have to go again to the Faith Radet. You had to say for the first time - it is true, I broke the Rules of Procedure, I apologize to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially Mr. Momcil Duvnjak, to return the word, please, Mr. Duvnjak, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, finish what you wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4815	Thank you. Since after the presentation of the People's MP, Verica Radeta, who has advertised the same members of the Rules of Procedure, I have given an explanation to the members of the Rules of Procedure, as you have, I don't think I should explain it anymore. Here you are, the People's Messenger of Miroslav Pejica, and then the People's Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4816	I apologize to the National Assembly for taking some more time, but I have to report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because so many lies and lies have been made here by Mr Batic that I'm going to have to say a few words. Mr Batic said that the former president of the court was punishable for the 1992 conflict with JUL, and that JUL did not exist in 1992. Mr. President of the Court, appointed in 2000 as the President of the Municipality Court of Loznica, has been punished for fighting in a bar. Also, Mr Batic here said that the president of the municipality, Mr Vidoje Petrovic, appointed the Municipal Election Commission. That's not true. The municipal electoral commission was appointed by the local assembly of the Municipality of Loznica. The municipal electoral commission did not accept 7,900 signatures due to an untimely arrival, and their decision was confirmed by the municipal court in Loznica, as well as the Supreme Court in Belgrade. I think Mr. Batic should know better than I do, because he's a lawyer, he was also a minister of justice in that period. Also, he mentioned here urban chaos in Loznica. Normally, urban chaos when so many streets work today in Loznica, and for God's sake, 20, 30 years in Loznica, nothing was built, so it's normal for today to be chaos, because the streets are different and can't be built but with one chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4817	Thank you. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4818	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to all the MPs who speak from this place, but from a moment on, I will pay particular attention to when MPs from the ruling coalition speak, I will pay attention to the way they speak, because they seem to be allowed everything with Mr. Dulic. When a MP from the SRS says someone is lying, then Mr. Dulic rings a bell, warns, etc., and when the MP from the assembly majority says that, then it's a perfectly normal communication, which I agree with, because I think if someone is lying, they should be told that they are lying, but when someone says that, then they should also really know why he said it. Mr. Dulic, later in his mind sometimes, I'd say, and most often, he doesn't use it. You, when Mr. Nemčil Šarović and I warned you and well explained to you by the Rules of Procedure how you violated the Rules of Procedure when you took the word from Mr. Momcil Duvnjak, then you understood it, so you said - that I had made a mistake and violated the Rules of Procedure and I will propose to the National Assembly in the day of voting to vote like that. We've had a case like this before. You are not the only and first president to admit that he has broken the Rules of Procedure, but I know that you have said that to explain how you are the great Democrats and how you, the Democrats, admit when you make a mistake. It's like when Boris Tadic admitted to the existence of the "Bodrum affair", so now he's lying to Serbian citizens that the "Bodrum affair" is over and it's not even started. That's what I was talking about the other day. So you broke the Rules of Procedure. You have to do exactly as Mr. Nemanja Sarovic said, that I am not repeating the whole story now, because you can, so every time you break the Rules of Procedure and say afterwards - that, well, I did break the Rules of Procedure, and we move on. No, Mr. Dulic, if you have admitted to breaking the Rules of Procedure, then you are obliged to ask Mr. Duvnjak nicely to come out and say what he intended to say and what he began to say when you, otherwise, took his word. So, you can't fool the MPs of the SRS, and I'm convinced, not even the citizens of Serbia, by stepping down the Rules of Procedure, which is characteristic of the representatives and officials of your party, who are trampling and the Constitution, and the law, and everything possible, and then, in the end, you say -- yes, I did break the Rules of Procedure, the Law, the Constitution, I don't know what, but that doesn't matter. You know, you said that in order to make an impression, I repeat, one great Democrats, and to me you looked like, Mr. Dulic, someone to whom the people's saying, "What are you ashamed of... "I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4819	Thank you very much. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures. What Minister Cvetkovic said was based on three sentences. He went out and told the gene, the chronology, that we signed all the conventions, when he was so-called. The Kyoto Agreement came into force when it was established. In principle, in the last sentence he said the point of all this - that it was one formality. I would not say that formality is the signing of a law that will change many things with us and that will affect many things, not only in customs but also in economy. It's a formality to you, but that formality can be seen in another way. I'll try to represent another way, which is different from your attitude. I will return to this, as you said, that the Customs Service of the Republic of Serbia is applying seven conventions, adopted by the World Customs Organisation, and among them the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures, etc. Kyoto Convention, which was joined by the SFRY in 1982. This convention came into force in 1974 and was signed by 63 countries. Of the 31 annexes, 26 came into force, as the Convention allows for the possibility of becoming a signator of the Convention by accepting only one annex, as shown in the guidelines which contain an explanation, with examples of practices for all chapters, general annexes and specific annexes, where it is noted that the vast majority of countries have accepted only a general contribution, i.e. only the mandatory part of the Convention, while only eight countries have accepted some of the specific annexes. This figure itself of eight countries proves that it was a formality, and that you understood it that way and that countries simply sign that convention for the sake of order, because if only eight countries sign everything and 26 views apply from 31, and that there are a small number of countries that have signed it, that means that it's not something that's urgent. I am now interested in what was so urgent that this very convention comes to order when we have far more important things than this convention. Is that a rush again, and is that a story that's going through these days, talking to carrots and a long stick, that it's a clause, so if we sign it, maybe we'd have a priority in joining the European Union, that is, it's the constant desire of you as the authorities to join the European Union, which obviously won't? There's a question about why it's like that. Does the countries acting in the Convention do so for the sake of order, which could be concluded by the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures? This amended protocol was made up in Brussels on 26 June 1999, eight years passed, and the question is why has it not been signed so far? What are the crucial reasons why this law should be passed, and what good will it do Serbia and its citizens? As seriously as this protocol is taken into account in the world, comparisons are done, I will say that Kyoto's climate change protocol, made up in 1997 in Japan, which took effect on 16 February 2005, has been ratified in 144 countries, including the European Union. It thus shows that this protocol is not so important, nor is it so brutal that our customs service and Serbia at all could not work and that customs proceedings could not take place without that protocol. The main objection of the legislator of this law is that Kyoto Convention has not been amended for more than 20 years and has failed to fulfil its main task, which is, in your opinion, the harmonisation of customs procedures. In 1994, at the session of the Standing Technical Committee of the World Customs Organisation, negotiations began, with the aim of revising and adapting Kyoto Convention, and in 1999 the text of the revised conventions was adopted, with a minimum of common acceptable provisions. The revised Kyoto Convention entered into force on 3 February 2004. Harmonisation related to the customs tariff area is conditioned by the need for external trade with members of the European Union. It already imposes on us to get back into something to be directed towards the European Union and external trade co-operation. If we look at foreign trade co-operation, we are aware that our deficit is getting bigger and bigger, just by being directed towards the European Union. The question arises whether we will go towards the European Union again to the harm of our economy and citizens of Serbia? Harmonisation related to the customs tariff area is conditioned by the need for external trade with members of the European Union, and our external trade deficit is increasing and increasing every day. The only ones who profit are members of the import lobby, which is evident. In order to support that fact, I will say that this lobby is attached and Article 2 in Chapter I of the Convention, where, in the last part of that article, it is said that foreign Contracting Parties do not prevent anything from granting reliefs greater than those provided for in this Convention, and each of the Contracting Parties is recommended that, to the extent possible, they grant greater relief. By doing so, you will be in a position to sign the Convention, and on the other hand, you will give benefits and relief to the importers. By what principle, who will it be? I will later prove that this convention is as if it was written for some import lobby, which will only benefit and profit in all of this. The harmonised system of titles and codes of goods is based on the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Codes, related to the combined tariff of the European Union, signed by our country, and published in the Official Journal of the SRJ - International Contracts' Nos. 6/87, 14/91 and 1/97. This obliged us to install all amendments to the harmonized system of nomenclature into our national customs tariff. Harmonisation of customs tariff standards is conditioned by the need to intensify external trade with EU Member States, which is one of the conditions for the accession of countries to the European Union. So again, it is forced that someone, through these laws, as you say - only some formality is imposed, that we are going by force towards the European Union, and by trade in the European Union we are merely creating a deficit and a loss of this government. This is another example that this government, due to its unrealistic aspirations to join the European Union, which obviously won't, and this government -- through a more intense external trade exchange, creates a deficit at the expense of Serbian citizens. The harmonisation of the national customs tariff with the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union has simplified the application of the Free Trade Agreement, as the countries with which the Agreement of the Customs Tariffs has been concluded have, in the most part, brought into line with the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union. The existing tariffs, based on the harmonised system, since 1996, have contained around 8,500 tariff headings, by 2,000 less than the number of positions of the current tariff tariffs of the European Union, which has 10,270 tariff positions. The obligation to pay the original customs duties was prescribed by the Law on the Action Plan for Harmonisation of the Economic System of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of goods, services and capital. Harmonized system, so-called. HS 2000/2002, is a universal classification system used in the manufacture of customs tariffs. Each product, as a subject of external trade, is assigned 10 digits, so-called I.D. code. The first six digits are a harmonised system prescribed by the World Customs Organisation, while the seventh and eighth digits of the tariff codes have been downloaded from the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union and are unique to all the Member States of the European Union and the other countries that have taken over this nomenclature, including our country. So we've already turned on, signed and followed all these contracts we signed. I don't see how we could make any progress on this convention right now and improve our customs when we can barely do what we signed. Customs tariff itself is part of customs policy. The tariff, together with the customs law, represents the entire customs system of protection. The Customs Tariff Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, 62/05, which entered into force on 26 July 2005, was adopted on the grounds that it is considered a significant step in harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. What do we do now with this convention? Now we're gonna undo that law, so we're gonna go the other way for a little bit?- I'm sorry. We're simply in collegiate with ourselves. I mean you, I don't mean representatives and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. The law is nomenclatured in accordance with the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks - HS 2000/2002, and the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union since 2005. An explanation of the signing of the Stabilisation Agreement on EU accession, as well as negotiations for Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation, require full compatibility of the national tariff with the Member States, which was also the reason for the adoption of the law. The prescribed rate of customs duty ranges from zero to 30%. The Free Trade Agreement Serbia signed with the following countries: Moldova - 2004, Croatia - 2004, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina - 2003, Russia - 2001, Romania and Bulgaria - 2004, Albania - 2004. Since our customs office is pulling all these affairs, that's what all party representatives have been pointing at, because you've seen them break spears around Director Customs, i.e. We're aware that lately in Customs, not everything is as ideal as it's been said here, it would really be unserious to call this a formality. We've seen that in Customs it's come to the opening of outposts in Dobanovci, customs stations. So anyone can decide where they want to open it, and that's what customs stations were opening up with uncles, uncles in Dobanovci. I just wanted to compare, this is from the government site of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, where Mr. Dragan Jeremic, who, I hear, is no longer the director of these customs, boasts that all is well. Mr Jeremic stressed that he is paying special attention to the fight against corruption. We are aware that the modernisation process can be counterproductive unless the level of integrity of the Customs Service is raised, he added, stressing that 200 officials have been sanctioned over the past two years and have filed about 20 criminal charges. As I recall, these actions that were carried out were ahead of the parliamentary elections. By that logic, customs officers can understand -- we can do whatever we want and take whatever we want, and when elections are announced, then we have to keep quiet and someone will be the scapegoat, someone will be in this group. Did Mr Dragan Jeremic, if removed, in this criminal group or did he fail to fulfil his duties? I will quote Mr. Zoran Vukovic, who is the assistant director of the Information Technology Directorate. He reminded that a strategy for developing Serbia's Customs Information System was adopted in 2005. The strategy was adopted by the finance ministry, the Alliance for Modernisation of the Ministry of Finance and the College of the Customs of Serbia, and approved by the World Bank. During 2005, a foundation was laid to allow the Customs Administration's accounting and information centre to become one of the best systems in Europe, Mr Vukovic stressed. It continues - the Customs Service Modernisation project includes the electronic submission of the declaration, which significantly accelerates the flow of goods, integrated border management, thanks to the coordination of all services at border crossings, as so-called. the "Semafor" project, which allows participants to monitor the flow and progress of the customs procedure. Even Dragan Maricic, assistant director of the Customs Regulation Control Directorate, stressed that Serbia's geographical position conditioned a large flow of goods and passengers, thus also increasing the incidence of abuses, the most of which is the so-called. The Balkan heroin path, which brings heroin from Asia through the Balkans, to Western Europe. At the same time, combating the abuse of the Labour Strategy of the Directorate for the Control of the application of Customs Regulations is moving in four directions: intra- customs co-operation, integrated border management and international co-operation with citizens. Now, if all this was nice, which is why we are now entering a project, and I know that this is nowhere near the truth, which is just going to, to express myself harshly, to hear our customs duties and our customs officers, in general, the machine that is in the Customs, which is now going to have to adapt to some new laws, some new regulations, something that will harmonize them, what is it going to simplify? I fear it will be not simplification and reconciliation, but a complicated reflection of customs procedures, to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia and all Serbia. What is the priority and urgency of adopting this law, what are the priorities? You can't see through the bill. Looking at Article 13 of the terms of application of the standard -- 36 to 60 months, and even deadlines can be extended, we see that this is not so urgent. This bill has been made to show that we want to join the European Union or that you would justify some obligations to the import lobby. Article 7 of point B. reads: "The questions relating to a specific contribution or to the head of that specific contribution, which is already in force, have the right to vote only those of the Contracting Parties which have adopted that specific contribution or its head." If a foreign Contracting Party has not adopted the contribution because it considers it bad, it should not vote or deliver its opinion. In my opinion, that's a little illogical. And to enter, and to sign the Convention, if we're dissatisfied with some member, we won't sign it. Then why are we not allowed to vote, perhaps most will decide that attitude or member is not right and then that attitude would be erased. This is how you're forced to sign something, and it's only later that you can discuss it. So first we have to adopt the contribution or the head of that specific contribution, and only then can we vote against it. That's really illogical. Chapter 3. General Annex - Customs and customs formalities, item 3 point 5 - Standard with a transitional deadline: 'If customs authorities intend to open a new customs office at a common border crossing, or to reorganise an existing border crossing, they will whenever possible co-operate with the customs authorities of the neighbouring country in order to open a common customs office and to facilitate joint controls'. I am now asking you openly - what will happen if members of the former Yugoslavia sign this same contract and we do not find common language with them on where we will open joint exposures? Is there gonna be blame and who's gonna handle the consequences? As we now see, we are always guilty, Serbia and the citizens of Serbia are guilty. And then we'll be there, and they'll impose a solution, where it suits them, they'll set up new customs offices. It's even more tragic, Mr. Minister, what will come. What happens if your friends recognise an independent Kosovo, what happens when Kosovo signs the agreement as an independent Kosovo? Will we be able to agree with them where the customs station will be? What is most tragic, will we recognise this independent Kosovo? We, of course, will not, Serbian radicals will never admit it. And will this government then admit to having to negotiate with them about customs? I'll back it up with the CEFTI Treaty. Who signed the CEFTI contract, Mr Kostunica, where did Kosovo sign as an independent factor in the accession agreement?- I'm sorry. Well, it's the biggest shame of Serbia and the Serbian people that the prime minister has given us. And what now, will you citizens of Serbia and all of us here convince that if Kosovo becomes independent, with the nomination of your friends, we will get out of this convention, because it will be a shame to be signatories of the convention where Kosovo is recognised as an independent unit and where Kosovo will decide where customs will be, so that we can schedule customs as much as you want, beside us, without us agreeing with those customs crossings? And then who will guarantee us the flow of both people and money and capital and goods? Page 61, bet 3. point 45. - Standard with a transitional deadline: "If the customs authorities sell goods which have not been declared within the prescribed time limit or which, although no infringement has been found, could not be dropped, sales revenue, reduced by the amount of taxes and taxes and other charges, as well as the costs incurred, shall be transferred to persons entitled to them, and in cases where that is not possible, they shall be made available for a certain period of time. "If the goods are not registered within the prescribed time limit, they are withdrawn and there is no compensation or sale. Or, if no offense was detected, how is it sold? If there's no foul play, I guess he's coming back to the owner of the goods. So now it's illogical, you haven't discovered a misdemeanor and you're selling someone's goods, and then you cut it down and you give it to strangers after they get paid. It's still undefined, which is a certain time, it's not precise. Whether it's seven, ten, thirty days, or someone's gonna keep that stuff on customs for years. Chapter 4 Part B - Suspension of payment of taxes and taxes. This is now a special segment. It is said: "When payment is granted, interest will not be calculated as much as possible. "Who, and by what criteria, is granted delayed payment, and what is the time period on which no interest will be charged? That's what I say the import lobby will profit here. If companies that are already monopolies appear, they will be able to be approved in a timely manner, since there is no limit on what time it is, the maximum time will not be paid interest and they will only pay through that difference, which would pay interest, there will be profit. Chapter 4 of point 17 - Standard: "The delay in payment of taxes and taxes will be at least 14 days". And what is the longest time limit, which will be the longest time limit? If your friends come to customs, import goods, you give them a year, two, three for a delayed payment of taxes and taxes, they'll make a living through it. How are these two standards going to be applied, whether by some party and party line, by an ominous method, and by this can it be, or by agreeing in four eyes, or something like that? We see that our customs aren't immune from these things. This, literally, as if it were written by the leaders of that import lobby and these two points - 4.16 and 4.17 is exactly what gives them space for great manipulation, and also to benefit from it. Page 65, chapter 5 - Security. I'll put the accent on point 5.3. - Standard: "Every person required to submit security will be allowed to choose in which way he will place security, provided he is acceptable to customs authorities." What is meant to be so acceptable?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4821	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4822	Under 5.4: "The customs authorities will not, if prescribed by national legislation, require the lodging of security if they are convinced that the obligations to customs authorities will be met". What are we going to know or anyone that they're convinced of? Point 5.5: "... and, in particular, from declarations that regularly report customs duty goods to various customs offices in the customs territory." This proves that whoever is a regular importer has every privilege of doing so in his favor. What I meant to say was that it was smarter, Mr. Minister, that today, instead of signing this convention, the minister and the government came out with a proposal for a solution to the external trade deficit. The volume of Serbia's foreign trade in the first four months is 7.7 billion dollars, which is 45.2% more than last year. The follow-up of the story shows the real facts. At the same time, an external trade deficit of 2.7 billion dollars was recorded, 40.1% more than last year. We'd better talk about it. By 83.3%, the external debt is higher than in 2000. It's true, in 2000, you came to power and the external debt grew so much that it's already worrying. The external debt of the private sector is growing, especially in view of the two billion in 2000, that total debt was 18.8%, and now 58%. Let me cut short, since I've already timed out. We better have ratified the free trade agreement with Russia today, since we have a free trade agreement with them, but we haven't ratified it. We know that our goods are coming out of the Russian market without customs, although the official agreement has not yet been ratified. Exports from Serbia are down to Moscow and Russia's environment. Russia is impervious to our exports, but our economy is uncompetitive. We've exported 311 million to Russia, and we've imported two billion 411 million, not because the Russians are using us, but because our economy is so weak that there's nothing left to place on the Russian market, and we've become addicted. Perhaps the reason for signing this convention is that we would directly dispose of the resources of interested countries to help financially, because if we do not sign it, the countries that are interested in implementing this law must invest and water themselves in our territory, to own their own money and control its flows. You may have a problem with someone who's interested in it, but they won't let you have the money, but they'll have the money and invest where you need to invest. I end up with Mr. Kelvin College, who said, and it's extremely good for this law: "It's much more important than making good is preventing bad laws." I think this law is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4823	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. I give my word to the People's Messenger Milan Nikolic, and let the People's Messenger Milorad Buh be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4824	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is, in my view, a very important law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Regulations. I just want to mention that the century that is behind us for many things is characteristic and recorded in history as a supporter of events in almost all segments of civilization's development. In particular, expansion has been expressed in trade exchanges, as all countries of the world trade with one another. The world has almost become a global village where different forms of co-operation develop in this trade area. It is not only final products that are exchanged, but it is that there are further jobs, cooperatives and, of course, there are very serious problems in the realisation of customs operations. The global problem related to the cost and time of carrying out customs duties has also been observed by the World Customs Organisation, so in 1974 they come to the idea of simplifying, simplifying and harmonising customs regulations, so that they can do these jobs more effectively. The purpose of this first Kyoto declaration, or convention, was to remove differences between the customs procedures of national economies, to meet the needs of international trade and customs, by facilitating, by simplifying and harmonising customs procedures, and to provide appropriate customs control standards, to enable customs authorities to respond to important changes, administrative methods and customs techniques. Unfortunately, after 20 years, experience suggests that this first convention did not deliver results and therefore a procedure for amending the first convention, Kyoto Convention, and already since 1999, until February of last year, comes, as we have seen in the opening presentation, to change that segment, which was intended to harmonise these customs procedures, that as many employees as possible be in the signing of this Convention, to form specific advices for monitoring the implementation of the Convention and to implement the Convention through advice and committees. I think this new, innovative, revised convention has ensured that the basic principles of simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures are binding, above all, on the signatories of the Convention. It has provided the customs authorities with effective procedures, with appropriate and effective control methods, to achieve a high level of simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures and practices and thus facilitate international trade. Basically, a general standard has been provided, which is binding for all, which must be used, a standard with a transitional deadline, and a particular practice is recommended. The convention consists, not of detail, of this general and specific contribution. Many details, a 20-year experience, from 1974 to 1999, were actually used. I can tell you, as a businessman and a man who deals with foreign trade, this proposal for an international document, which Serbia must approach, does not require much of our party's upgrades. I think we should accept this document, because it gives us opportunities to use the many advantages that the Convention offers, gives us the opportunity to accept some things, not to accept others, and, of course, gives us the opportunity to get out of something that doesn't suit us. The Socialist Party of Serbia has discussed the bill in its working group, believes it should be accepted, and in the voting day we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4825	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the World Customs Organisation and the World Trade Organisation, through the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures, want to achieve harmonisation of customs procedures. The harmonisation of customs procedures, as provided for in the provisions of this Convention, implies the harmonisation of legislation, the standardised procedure, the acceleration of customs reforms through the modernisation of the customs administration, afterwards, the lifting of customs capacities, due to increased traffic of goods and people, as well as the protection of users of the customs procedure. The Republic of Serbia, carrying out IMF, World Bank and individual mentors' tasks from the European Union, has introduced legislation relating to foreign trade business, so the Law on Foreign Trade was adopted in 2001. A new customs law was then passed, which took over almost all the elements of the EU customs system. The Customs Tariff Act, which was amended this year, was also adopted. At the same time, an agreement was signed in 2003 on free trade with Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Moldova, Russia, BiH and Macedonia. However, the ratification of this agreement has not been carried out. It would be very important to ratify the agreement, especially with Russia. What are the basic characteristics of these legal innovations and changes in the customs system of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia? First of all, the liberalisation of foreign trade, then the reduction of customs rates, simplification of customs procedures, standardised customs controls. Lately, we've seen that, with all these characteristics, there's been a criminalisation of customs organs through the so-called. Customs Mafia. The Law on Foreign Trade and Customs Law introduces a rapid and excessive liberalisation of foreign trade, and this is particularly important in imports. These laws, customs barriers to imports, such as contingents, permits and the like, have almost been completely abolished. The average customs rate has been reduced from 4.3% to 8.9%, and today it is below 8%. Over 60% of imports are burdened with a customs rate ranging from one to five, and 25% of import products - at a customs rate of 10%. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has not created extra-tariff protection measures, which are practiced in almost all modern countries, especially in developing countries. That's the basic problem of our foreign trade deficit. In addition to all the above, the government, both federal and republican, allowed for a dynamic rise in prices in the country, a course of dinars that accelerated imports and detimulated exports, all of which resulted in a marked increase in the external trade deficit. As it seems in practice, I'll point out through certain examples. The foreign trade deficit, according to data, in 1990 was $1,591,000,000, in 2000 -- $1,757,000,000, in 2001 -- $3,750,000, double the increase. Today, the plan deficit for this year, what is the government's projection, will move around 10 billion, and according to economic experts, it will most likely end up with up to $12 billion. When we talk about the participation of customs in the revenue of the budget, we will see that the percentage participation of customs in the revenue of the budget from year to year falls. In 1998 it was 30.9%, it was harvested 3,200,000, in 2001 it was 16.5% - 13,100,000. In 2006, 45 billion were collected, representing a 9.1%) participation, and for 2007, it is planned to collect from customs 54.2%, representing 9.3%. Given the economic indicators we're getting these days, we see that import growth is well above the planned percentages. We planned, or the government went with a plan-based projection of import increases of 23.7%, and we see, according to data, that it is far above that, as well as export growth of 26.8%, so the projection of external trade deficits for this year will be far above the planned projection. This is the case in the entire DOS period, since 2000, that the plan projections are being breached, both in the field of imports and in the field of exports, with the reverse proportion, the increase in imports is far greater than the increase in exports, so that our external trade deficit is increasing from year to year. It is important here to mention, when we talk about all the characteristics of foreign trade and customs collection, I also mentioned here a reduction in customs rates, which were the creators of this economic policy and customs policy. These were experts from G17, above all, the minister of economic relations with abroad and later Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, who worked directly on instructions, which they did not hide either, the IMF, the World Bank and the mentor from the European Union. The results of their work are familiar, and I've tried to elaborate them here. It is these experts who say and explain the foreign trade deficit, so they say that the negative characteristics and problems in foreign trade stem from the reduced competitiveness of our economy. What has the government, the federal government, and this government, done to increase the competitiveness of the economy? It's the government's priority. They say we don't have enough knowledge, we don't have enough experience, we don't have management teams to increase exports and reduce imports. They say the poor quality of the product, the ignorance of foreign markets, underdeveloped marketing, insufficient financial resources, lack of aid from state authorities, poor country rating, is primarily meant by isolation and sanctions that were until 1995 - 1996. They also say - insufficient product standardisation, a small production volume for large markets list a number of other reasons. What is necessary to show here is that no government after 2000 has a strategic plan to develop our production and reduce imports. This government must, Mr. Minister, come out here, not with this law, not with the convention, but with an export policy strategy and import cuts. You haven't done it so far, and that's the government's priority. You must work on a plan to stimulate exports, reduce imports, through the purchase plan of domestic products. You need to start with customs barriers, no matter what I press you from the IMF and the World Bank. Out-of-carin barriers, which are used by almost the entire modern world, and especially by developing countries, you have thrown out and almost no extra-carinal system is used in practical application. The benefits of the Foreign Trade Agreement with Russia are not to be used. The task of this government is to take advantage of everything Russia is doing to us now in a political sense, and also in economic terms, and we need to ratify this agreement here and move into its realization, determine the export plan towards Russia, start working out trade, energy for agricultural products, because we are in the area of agricultural production. We can do this, turn the greenfield investment and direct them into production for exports to Russia, give benefits, state, for product producers that will be directed to Russia etc. It is important here to mention export characteristics during 2006. I will mention here the data I downloaded from an economic magazine, which shows that some exporters have produced very good results. It's also interesting to get that information and talk about it in public. "Ju-Es style" during 2006 achieved exports of 665m euros, Petrochem - 207m euros, Tiger - 104m euros, then Hemofarm - 60m euros, NIS - 48m euros, Targ - 46m euros, EPS - 44m euros, Tetrapas - 41m euros, etc. We have to mention Ju-Es style here. It's exactly the company that was sold in a criminal manner several years ago, and here, today they're the biggest exporters, exporting nearly 20% of Serbian exports in such a short time. The question is, why did we sell such a company, why did we sell it at a ridiculous price of 23m euros? Minister Cvetkovic knows this very well, but he must know the public as well. In the end, Minister, what is necessary is that you go to the Assembly with peripheral laws, instead of doing an analysis of the situation in the area of external trade and customs. Make one strategic export plan and only then, when we agree everything and when we go into service, we should start with this, for me, peripheral law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4827	I thank the MP. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Let MP Zvonko Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is the Convention on the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures, the Convention that fully fits into the foreign trade liberalisation policy that has been under way in Serbia since 2000, since the DOS came to power. In the Serbian Radical Party's view, such a policy has had an extremely harmful impact on Serbia's economy in the previous period and the consequences are evident, above all, through poverty and lack of citizens of Serbia. All kinds of things have been imported in this previous period. It wasn't a matter of real judgment, of the possibilities for our economy to be revitalised. It was not a matter of concern whether our economy was competitive in relation to foreign businesses. We've had a lot of examples of unfair competition. We have even had dumped prices, and all without those extra-tariff safeguards, which have not been in place since 2000 at all, which has led us to such a situation that Serbia's citizens today meet most of their needs with foreign goods. In the draft budget that we adopted about a month ago, it seems to me that we could best see that some 180 billion revenue from value added tax comes from customs, meaning import goods, and that only about 80 billion dinars come from value added tax from goods produced, from goods and services produced in Serbia. The best indicator is that close to 60, well, I would say, and nearly 70% of Serbia's citizens' needs today are being met with import goods. It is the best indicator of the state of Serbian economy, and that is the answer to all those citizens who wonder how the Serbian state survives today, in a situation where the economy is not working, in a situation of general lack of citizens of Serbia, as the state survives, as is the survival of such a large state bureaucracy. For the Serbian government, unfortunately, there seems to be no big difference between whether it charges taxes on imported goods or taxes on domestic goods. For her, it is important to fill the budget and to distribute that money to the ministries, that the ministers go through Serbia, various programmes and projects, improve the rating of their parties, and the interests of citizens -- a large number of unemployed, which is increasing from day to day -- are in the second plan and are not a priority for the Serbian government today, unfortunately. It is extremely problematic in this policy, which has been implemented since 2000, and apparently, the growing external trade deficit, which for this year means for 2007, has been projected worth about $9 billion, which, worst of all, is increasing from year to year and which shows that Serbia today has no goods, has no competitive goods that can come out of the world market, which is covered by debt. Our debt is about 19 billion. The minister claims that most of it is private debt. It is, but it is not naive at all, because it has a significant impact on foreign exchange reserves, because it has a significant impact on macroeconomic stability, on course policy and in the coming period could be noose around the neck of the Serbian economy. A good part of this payment deficit, which is covered, comes from funds coming from privatisation, which is also unacceptable for the SRS. What seems to me to be the worst thing for us is that the level of the citizens working abroad, who are being poured into the budget, is increasing year by year. This best shows that Serbian citizens, our children today do not see Serbia as a country where they can survive, live, Serbia as a land of perspective, but leave the country largely. They're looking for a place in other people's countries, and we're coming into a paradoxical situation to live off what our children send us. Unfortunately, this trend will continue in some future period. In all, Serbia today is only the Western European market, I think, a resorial and biological reserve of the West, unable to provide any serious perspective for the citizens of Serbia. Such an economic policy, which, above all, puts consumption above production, continues to be implemented in the term of the government. It's all, no doubt, unacceptable for the SRS. And this convention is a continuation of this policy, which the SRS does not want to follow, because its programme involves taking care of the economy, above all, the export economy, and, in addition, a much more restrictive fiscal policy, means reducing public spending and much more investment in Serbia's production, investment for Serbia's future. These are the basic reasons why we cannot accept this convention. Because it continues the policy of non-critical liberalisation of our market. Serbia is a country that shows that the theoretical assumption -- that liberalisation brings much less damage than it benefits for a single economy -- is not necessarily valid for Serbia. It is obvious that the government should urgently make serious changes in this policy, if we want to preserve at least part of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4829	Thank you, Mr Antic. The word has a folk MP, Zvonko Mihajlovic, let the MP Zdravko Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4830	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer specifically to the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol and amendments to the International Convention on the Facilitation and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures, set up at the administrative crossing towards Kosovo and Metohija, at the administrative crossing of Končul, Merdara, Brnjak and Donja Jarinje. You have all heard of the lower Jarinje, just after the failed and poorly organized attempt to order the return of the exiled Serbs. On goods exported to Kosovo and Metohija from central Serbia, and of domestic origin, there is no tax to add value. More specifically, it is paid, but the money paid in the name of the VAT is returned at the administrative crossing, after a check of the paper. There's a problem here. Merchants, suppliers of Serbian nationality, have regulated companies according to the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia, while the traders of Albanians have, with a wave, companies registered under UNMIK regulations, and are also free of VAT payments. I believe that this information should be traced, adequately answered, reacted, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia has suffered huge damages because of this, and individuals are rich. According to current regulations, administrative crossings cannot cross a person who is a foreign citizen and who, instead of a ID card, shows a passport. That face must enter the official border crossing. However, if a certain amount of foreign currency is found in the passport, then the rules cease to apply. Strengthen your control, you'll see to it that I'm telling the truth. What concerns me particularly is that from the middle of last year to today in Kosovo and Metohija, a huge amount of wheat grain has been imported. The data was checked 100%. You know, when someone prepares supplies in food, weapons, medicines, goods, why it is being prepared, and even when it is known that all criminals are walking through Kosovo and Metohija, then it is clear to you. At the administrative crossing, Konculj is working on multiethnic police, composed of Serbs and Albanians, so that the claims made by Mr Riza Halimi are not standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4831	The People's MP Zdravko Topalović has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government in the light of this revised convention, which took effect on 3 February 2006, says the Convention is in line with the basic principles of the World Trade Organisation. To point out that Serbia is not a member of the WTO, yet. There is legislation, standardised procedures and acceleration of customs reforms, through the modernisation of customs administrations and the rise of their capacities. It's all very well said, and where is our customs administration today? Since its creation, i.e. from May 1804, when Karadjordje Petrovic established a customs office in Ostružnica with a skeleton, until today, never corruption and inefficient work of the Customs Administration has been recorded to the extent that today, i.e. In the last seven years since DOS was in power. Since the problem always comes from the top, so all these years the problem comes from people who, in the October 5th revolution, got their leading positions in Customs. It is normal that all this does not apply to all 3,200 employees in the Customs Administration, but it must be noted that the Customs Service is organised to develop only in accordance with the needs and capabilities of this current DOS authority. It can also be said that professional training and training of customs workers is just a letter on paper. They reiterate that the only measure of ability in the Customs Administration - a party book belonging to the DOS. This creates closed clans and crime groups within the Customs, leading to frequent affairs, and only one part of these affairs comes before the Court or to the public. The main problem is in the government that forces the import lobby. Mr. Minister, let me remind you, when there was a debate on the Excise Act, there was an amendment to the SRS, which I explained, that the excise duty on import drinks and juices was not lifted. You then, in your argument, pointed out that it was a customs domain and, behold, now is the opportunity to correct your mistake and help domestic producers by burdening importers with a higher rate of customs duty. This applies to all goods of broad consumption, and I tell you for the third time, even though it is not your jurisdiction, but you are here a representative of the Government, that for the third time I request an answer on how much the external trade deficit of goods with the former republics of the SFRY is. What I'm talking about is not just protectionism, because I have to remind you that world economic forces, like the United States, are protecting their market. I'm going to give you an example that the United States has a customs rate on certain parts of furniture imported from China between 300 and 400 percent. So I'm calling you this way, even though we could have done it in the Excise Act, let's agree and, when you've already transferred the issue of customs policy, let's make something right here and do it right. In order to sign any international agreement, first of all, one that is not harmful to the state, we need to sort out the situation in the Customs Administration, but it is obviously possible after the next parliamentary elections, when the SRS wins and, therefore, organises power, i.e.. Put someone right in that administration who can fix the situation. It is very important to sort out the situation in the Customs Administration, because, you will agree, at the border crossing, the customs officer represents the appearance and appearance of a country you are entering. That's not the case with our customs and our officers for now. As far as this Convention is concerned, it should be said that it has been accepted by a number of countries, but that mandatory part of the Convention, while only eight countries have accepted some other chapters of this Convention. In addition, the first, these international conventions, Articles 2 and 3 are in contradiction. Article 2 states that each Contracting Party undertakes to work on the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures and that, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, it will adhere to standards, standards with a transitional deadline and recommended practices, as set out in the Annexes to this Convention, and that there is nothing preventing the parties from granting greater relief. Article 3 states that the provisions of this Convention shall not exclude the application of prohibitions or restrictions. Why is such a convention signed? I understand the great economic forces that sign such a convention with countries, right now, such as Serbia, so they can do whatever they want and apply that convention, international agreements, as they will and as they believe they should apply them. Normally, the SRS cannot support such signing of this Convention, and the government, instead of signing various agreements, international declarations, let the Wednesday, first, alarming situation in Customs, and second, let's apply the already signed bilateral co-operation agreements with Russia. To remind you, the border with the Republika Srpska, which was one of the topics of the special and parallel relations agreement with Republika Srpska, do not allow, I will use the domestic term, that the border with Republika Srpska is a 'hard', but a soft border, and you will see for yourself the first time if you cross that border, so they do not recognize you, so that you can see that the border is not at all open as it should be. Although it is not your domain, I must criticise the work of the border police, which no longer deals with the pursuit of criminals crossing from one side of the border, but is its basic activity to verify whether you are on the list of Hague indictees.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4833	The People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, has the word to be prepared for the word of Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4834	Are you comfortable here, Mr. Minister? That's what I'm asking because last night you were so moved by me when you said on one show that the greatest impression of you these days is this high temperature, says the minister, and two days he's sitting in a darkened air-conditioned room. Sir, I felt so bad for him, and then he explains why the government couldn't do something about declaring a natural disaster, or why the government didn't provide air conditioning for hospitals, for kindergartens. Says the minister, he has to take care of the people's money. In fact, he said about the budget, and I translate about the people's money. Well, Minister, I don't know how you take care of people's money when you let Minister Dinkic, your colleague, know that he's probably, by his well-known criteria, sharing money, some sort of non-refundable credit, so he declares a greenfield investment, gives people's money, money from the National Investment Programme, and then says, "That's a greenfield investment." Either he doesn't know what a Greenfield investment is, or he's acting crazy, or he's really crazy. Really, right? They're getting their colleagues, and they know it. So, you don't own people's money like that, Mr. Minister, you have to take care of both the people's money and the people, and today you have to take care of Customs, because here today you represent an agreement relating to Customs. You're so unwise here, in three sentences, to explain what the bill is. You called it the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures, with a proposal to be taken into consideration. That's what it's called, is it, and you suggested we take it for a search. The least we expected of you was to explain the individual members of this convention, because it's not enough what you said last night -- how important it is to sign the Kyoto Agreement. Now the people who listen say that-- my God, what is this new government proposing to us, come on, God forbid we sign it. Nor does the people know what you sign, in whose name you sign, nor do the citizens of Serbia benefit from this job, and I am informing the citizens of Serbia that they have none. This government, I don't know how many days it's been, but it hasn't done anything concrete. The fact that we're dealing with some of your bill's proposals here, this is a job in the people's name is "drunk baba lan", Mr. Minister. You have not proposed anything concrete and clever to the MPs, not a single bill whose adoption, adoption and application of this people would at least be a little better. You did not answer, Mr. Minister, and I see that you were just giving a sign that you wanted to answer my, I guess, initial question -- whether you were comfortable here, you did not answer the question of a MP who referred to a new proposal, or a proposal for a new Director of Customs, Mr. Petronivic. Here, you heard, and I remind the public, there were serious charges made against Mr. Petronivic, some kind of criminal past, and you said the proposal came from the secretary of state, so, about you had nothing to do with it. You're proposed by the Secretary of State and you nod your head, you say - yeah, okay. That doesn't seem normal or possible to me, but also to the name and account of that Secretary of State, Mr. Djidic, and his criminogenic past here are also made serious accusations, and you're not interested in that. You're interested in fulfilling your party obligation. Mr. Jeremic is from G 17 Plus. He was director of Customs Administration while the minister was Mladjan Dinkic for you and before you. Now you're here, now the yellow one needs to take Carina and then bring this Petronievich, what's the name of the man? You haven't explained to the MPs, Mr. Minister, what's going on with what's known in public as the Customs Mafia. You know, it's not enough to arrest 20 or 30 customs officers who may have wronged the law, maybe they took some kind of dinar or euro somewhere, of course, we don't, and we don't think they should be responsible for any crime, even the tiniest, but it's impossible, Mr. Minister, that in all ministries you have an affair called one or another without ministers missing hair from their heads. In this case, if not the Minister, at least Director Customs. Do you think that Mr. Jeremic can only go, that he never answers anyone, to go there to the uncles of Dobanovci, to that warehouse he illegally opened, and to the other warehouses at the border crossings that the Serbian public knows about, which are spoken of openly? You think it'll just go away? You thought, gentlemen of the DOS, that Rade Terzic would never come to the wallpaper. Of course, today I have no intention of talking about Radet Terzic. The man with the handcuffs on his hands was taken to Central Prison and now someone else needs to talk about him. Me and other Serbian Radical Party colleagues talked about Radet Terzic when he, as Djindjic's constituent, was elected district attorney. Then we said that Rade Terzic led certain people to "Milosov Konzak", when he led a political coup against Prof. Vojislav Seselj, so Rade Terzic in "Milose Kontak", at lunch, "convinced", and really blackmailed people to go public with some lies about Dr. Vojislav Seselj. When we, in that sense and in the sense of other crime-related actions of Radet Terzic, spoke in public, you wanted to dig our eyes out, and now you're arresting Radet Terzic. So I'm not talking about reasons, I'm talking about your principle. You think it's enough now to arrest Rade Terzic and clear everything the DOS did and did while Rade Terzic, I repeat, was elected district attorney by Djindjic's order. Well, you can't do that, gentlemen. The fact that you give up your people, and yesterday, in one newspaper, the "high unnamed official of the Democratic Party", I know that there are officials, that there are also high, but unnamed, really, I don't know, says what we have to do with Radeta Terzic when he was never our member. It's not. And how would he be vice president of the Republic Election Commission and not a member of the Democratic Party at DOS time? Come on, explain it. So let's think about it those people you use for your criminal activities, let them think about what their term is. It's not our theme, and we don't think about it, but I'm saying this to distract you, and to you, and to Mr. Jeremic, and to Mr. Petronievich, that there's always a cat on the door. It may seem to you now that you can do whatever you want, and you can do whatever you want, but, Mr. Minister, you can't go as far as you want. You'll see, and all of your colleagues, how hateful are the MPs in my direction now, those who support the government, because they don't believe what I'm saying. They looked at us as much as they did when we talked about Kolesar and Janjusevic and Terzić and Stanko Subotic Canet. Every time you looked at us so ghastly, convinced that we were wrong. But, well, it's been a while, and then you use what we've been saying, and for this pay phone, and in all the public places. For once, Mr., my colleague and friend, Zoran Krasic, said - don't bother yourself, and this is now a message for the public prosecutors in Serbia, don't bother about carrying out evidence, read the books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj published during 2001 and 2002, and you will see everything you are now starting processes for, and those for which you don't start. Everything is well described, you have deeds, witnesses, and evidence, and documents. So you'd better take care of what the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party say, because whenever we look ourselves in the eye, even if you don't admit it to us, I know for a fact that you're admitting to yourself that we're right. Which, in particular, concerns this agreement, that is, what is called the Protocol, which you have offered us today for adoption, is neither what epochal nor what this should be about at this time to conduct the debate. You used this to bridge some time before the government makes some serious bill, because, first of all, Mr Dulic promised Serbian citizens that MPs would work during the summer period, so let's distract the people a little, let's talk about some protocols, conventions. What do they mean? They don't mean anything. As long as we've been without this today, we can do it from now on. So nothing's going to change. But once you've adopted this, then it was necessary, Mr. Minister, I hope you'll do it in the final word, since you're not in the opening room, to explain a few things to the MPs, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. For example, Article 2 and Article 3 are members of the college. Secondly, Article 2 is completely pointless. You are saying that each Contracting Party undertakes to work on the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures, in accordance with the provisions, etc., however, nothing prevents the Party from granting reliefs greater than those provided for in this Convention, and each Party Parties are recommended to grant a greater relief to the extent possible. Does this, gentlemen, fellow lawyers, mean anything legal? Here, we recommend, but you don't have to, and you might as well. It is now something that the National Assembly should declare. The provisions of this Convention shall not exclude the application of prohibitions or restrictions arising from national legislation and shall relate to goods subject to customs control. So, completely contradictory, that is, in a college of members. Since I don't understand this, I expect you, Minister, to explain it to me. Furthermore, Articles 8 and 10. Article 8(2) states: ''This Convention is open to the signing of the members referred to in Article 1 by 30 June 1974 at the seat of the Council in Brussels. After that, it will be open for their accession to the Convention.' You haven't explained why we haven't joined yet, at least in seven years, because you're going to say right now that I don't know why we didn't do it until 2000, but I'm asking you why we haven't since 2000, and why do we have to today and now? Article 10, very problematic, spoke counterpart Vlado Sekulic of the member. It states here that any party Party may, at the time of signing this Convention, declare, without a reservation of ratification or deposit of instruments on ratification or accession, or at any time thereafter, by means of written notice to the depositary that this Convention extends to all or to certain territories for whose international relations it is responsible. In a situation where your European and American friends talk about an independent Kosovo, sign something like this, believe it's straight treason. Think about it. Vojislav Kostunica did something similar to CEFTO, which, of course, we won't forgive him, nor will we forget, we'll talk about it all the time. If you sign this, you take a great risk and a great responsibility, gentlemen, because what if Albania happens, that Kosovo self-proclaims and separates itself from Serbia, or one of your friends who announces that it will do so? They automatically join this protocol, and then you will have a representative of Kosovo next to you. You can't do that. In Article 14, you are talking about dispute resolution. Disputes are said to be resolved, firstly in position 1, preferably through mutual negotiations. It's something that you in all our regulations, like some new contribution democratically, try to put in, and we keep telling you -- that there are agreements, that there are normal negotiations, then there would be no slow ones. You're always chasing something in your heads. Then, in paragraph 2, you say, 'Any dispute that is not settled through negotiations, foreign parties in the dispute shall be brought before the Management Committee, which shall consider the dispute and make recommendations for its resolution'. Who is this committee, who makes it? You didn't explain it to us. I expect that explanation. I expect an explanation for Article 18 on entry into force. ''This Convention shall enter into force three months from the date on which five entities of those mentioned in Article 1 and Article 5 of this Convention have signed the Convention without a reservation of ratification or depositing instruments of ratification or accession. '"You didn't tell us who signed it, what company are we going to? Do we belong in this society? One member who is acceptable is a member of the 17. He's talking about a deadline of importance. The member says: "This Convention has been concluded indefinitely, however, any party Contracting Party may, in accordance with Article 18 of this Convention, cancel the Convention at any time after its entry into force. '"So, you approach, but it's good, we have a Article 17, we'll one day step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4835	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Replica, MP Mr. Gavrilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4836	Dear Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have come forward with a replica of insinuations without the facts presented about Mr. Djindjic. I don't think that's right. When this parliament discusses any draft law and any appearance, we can agree that a fight can be fought against phenomena that are not in accordance with the law, which are clearly explained, highlighted. But he's leading a fight against individuals who aren't here to defend themselves, and in particular everything in turn, so there's gonna be some dead end to the keys, we're not gonna let that happen. One hundred and thirty thousand members have the Democratic Party. Of those 130,000, 99% are honest and honest people. We don't let them be spoken of like that. Whether they are farmers, teachers, workers, doctors, however, enjoy the reputation of their environments and therefore we have such support among citizens, because people in the local community know who is and who is what. The Kruševljani know who Miodrag Djidić is, because of them I would not say it, but I speak for those who are not the Kruševljans, that they also know that he is an honorable and honest man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4837	Thank you, Mr. Gabrielovich. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4838	I'm speaking under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Apparently, my colleague understood me very well and what his colleague Krasic said from the bench - who would have thought Mr. Gavrilovic was a "high unnamed official of DS". Since Mr. Gavrilovic brought out here data on how many members his party has and how honest he is, here I am to inform the SRS that there are 430,000 members and 100% fair. So, Mr. Gavrilovic, ladies and gentlemen, the story of our co-worker, Gidić, didn't begin us, your minister began. He boasted that he had no idea who Petronijevic was coming from, that he had been offered by the State Secretary in charge of Customs by Petronijevic, who was Mr Miodrag Djidic. What you're saying is that someone here is trying to manipulate some data relating to Mr. Zidic, the truth and the facts, tried to bring out Mr. Momcilo Duvnjak. Your President of Parliament, Mr Oliver Dulic, did not allow it, did not allow him to finish what he started. He was talking about some of Mr. Didic's criminal activities. If Oliver Dulic had allowed him to finish, maybe he would have said it in the end - it's all said, but I know it's not true, so he would have washed Mr. Djidic's name. No, he wasn't allowed by Mr. Dulic, and the rest is what you heard, and that's absolutely true. So you've had objections, I don't know why you haven't responded, you've had objections from your partners today, also DOS members, on behalf of Mr Petronivic and his criminal past and criminal activities. You also had objections to Mr. Zidic's name. Don't play lawyer here and teach us. You've been a folk MP for a long time, and I understand that you support the government, and I understand that you're voting for the government's proposals, but don't fall into the trap to play the government's spokesman. It's the worst role of every MP. You show your commitment to the government to press, which the president would say, on the appropriate button, instead of talking to your ministers before it comes to that push, you draw attention to what's good and what's not. I guess you, as MPs, are communicating with the people, so you know what's most important to the people right now, and that's how you direct your government to come out here with some acceptable suggestions. I repeat, when the MP plays the government's spokesman, he is certainly not in the role of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4839	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Ms Vesna Vukalovic-Nikolic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4840	Dear MPs, the minister has come out and I've lost a little inspiration now, but it's worth going out and saying to the public. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia is so fair, she wanted me to ask, why, then, referring to the presentation of Ms. Radeta's MPs, is harassing us in some agenda that reads this way: point 1. Signing of approval of the Agreement; point 2. EU confirmation: point 3. Confirmation of the Loan Agreement; point 4. Confirmation of the Convention; point 5. Confirming protocol? What's all this, what's this called? These are just some confirmations, and we have no idea what this is. However, we have an idea, as Serbian radicals, we know perfectly well that we are also interpreting behind all this which so far seems to be formality, in fact, hiding the essential things that you want to push through here for the citizens of Serbia and impose the laws by which we are going to play tomorrow, or live. I wanted to ask a question from the finance minister, since in his budget there is a foothold of all these agreements, conventions and protocols, but he's not here right now. What is important, the basis of each campaign was the fight against corruption. So, you had a fight against corruption as one of the campaign's top priorities, in fact, you were doing a campaign like Serbian radicals did. However, an important question is now being raised here. Mr. Duvnjak was not given the opportunity to explain, i.e. to provide information about the type of person involved in the matter of the Director of Customs Administration, because it is not naive at all who is the Director of Customs Administration and who has proposed the Director of Customs Administration. So it doesn't matter whose hands this protocol is going to be in today, or tomorrow, when it's about to be adopted, we adopt. It doesn't matter whose hands this law will be in. I'm going to make one parallel, something can be both positive and negatively exploited, even the law, depending on whose hands it is in and who is implementing it. Dynamics, then, can be positive, if it's a quarry, and it can be negative, if it's a destructive situation, when it comes to things that aren't good for people. It is also very important to tell the public and citizens of Serbia who proposed, who is the man who proposed the Director of Customs and what his CV is, as Mr. Minister says, as well as what kind of man he was proposed to be director of the Customs Administration and why he is. So, nothing is naive and I ask that Serbian citizens be explained and answered in detail this question in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4841	Thank you, Mrs. Vukajlovic. Of course it matters what's in whose hands. Now I'm going to let Mr. Juddjevic handle it. The word has Natasa Jovanovic, let Mr Stefanovic prepare after her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4842	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for me, as a folk MP with an internship in this assembly for more than a decade, was a special challenge to follow the situation in Customs from the moment that, after the five-octobaric coup, Zabunovic entered the federal administration of customs and when they began to happen, at the very least, strange things, which, in the criminal connection of the state regime with the Customs Administration and the direct political influence of individuals from the top of the government, began by the prime minister of one, and the other, resolution ministers, on the appointments (see also to this day, Mr. Djidic as State Secretary), the chief of the Customs Administration, influenced this very important segment of the functioning of one society and economy in general. You know, Mr. Minister, as an economist, that customs is an extraordinary system of economic activity and that it is a rounded economic continent once completely, in a certain way, as an institution, isolated in application and practice from the very system of government and direct control of the executive authorities, that it is most subject to corruption. This is not a problem facing only Serbia, earlier Serbia-Montenegro, but rather a problem for all countries that have collapsed institutions of the system, which do not have a stable executive power, in which MPs, as holders of the most legislative functions, have no interest in dealing with this issue in a more detailed and detailed manner. So in the last seven years, I've read more corruption studies at customs. One of the most important things we've ever done has been made. He made a team of economists in our country and people who did so, including customs officials themselves, so direct perpetrators of what the Protocol contains, which is just the basis for harmonising our legislation for this very important area. You should know that, but I can see that you are completely demoted and uninterested to enter a serious debate with the MPs about this issue, about the non-functional functioning of Customs, the smooth functioning and strict application of customs regulations, which are likely to tell you later, Mr Krasic will change, over the past seven years, countless times. We had 15 days ago to amend the Customs Procedure and Administration Act. Therefore, this is a basic condition for customs duties to function properly and to have a positive impact on the foreign trade exchange of one country, on revenues in the budget and to have an impact on the promotion of exporters, on the return of taxes and on the stimulation of exporters, which are not there, because the state is in debt; the external trade deficit is 20 billion euros. We are now in full economic collapse because of the fact that this very important segment of the functioning of society is completely neglected. We can talk about corruption in customs through the influence of individuals or through teamwork. First of all, I would like to talk about this team spirit of corruption, which was introduced into our country by your coming to power. It was amazing, and for some people who were probably honorable and honest in their intention to, in accordance with the rules that had been adopted until then, do the job, and to be in the immediate environment of the direct influence of the DSS politicians, from the DSS, the G17, the NS and all those who had participated in power. Simply, man could not take away what is called a whirlwind of corruption, in which each of them was individually drawn. In order for you, as a resolute minister in the new Kostunica government, to the new, old, as you will, to go out for the assembly speaker and convince the nation to try, some integrated anti-corruption strategy in the customs area, to apply adequate measures, you would, first of all, have to, as in the definition of what corruption has said to a certain Vito Tanci, to say, "Politicals will have absolutely no impact on this area of functioning of our society." But how come he doesn't, when he does. She had Zabunovic and automatic rifles, now via Djindjic, who sets up a new head of customs administration in our country, had at the time of Cedomir Jovanovic, when he was in charge, imagine, as president of the parliamentary group, then, of the dossova conglomerate, that he was harmonising customs regulations in the process of harmonising the state union of Serbia-Montenegro with Montenegrins. You know how we've had our fun - barefoot. He went there and said, "What's the difference, it's better Dutch potatoes than the one from Prika, we have no interest in protecting agricultural production." You're acting the same way now. As for that high degree of regulation and complicated procedure, it's terribly complicated. I would refer especially to this particular section, as a contribution to this agreement, which is Chapter 3 and Chapter 6, first of all, customs duties and other customs formalities and customs controls. I'll tell you, Mr. Minister, that this group of economists, investigating the degree of corruption in customs, which is terribly large for countries, as you would say, in transition, came from the customs officers themselves to the knowledge of 42% of the respondents, that they are horrified by such a complicated customs procedure that they have to carry out. They say it's extremely difficult, and the more complicated it is, the more likely it is for the so-called. discretionary law. The discretionary right of officials at the Customs and Customs Administration, you'll agree, is not the same as the discretionary right of some clerk you're setting up at the Ministry of Finance. This is about concrete flow of goods and certain services. This is about an incredible resource for obtaining enormous wealth for individuals, such as Cane Frog and all those involved in the 'divine affair'. Only the tip of the iceberg was Jocic's attempt from a few months ago to show us how he finished his job and how he started dealing with the Customs Mafia. Here, you see the report sent to the Defence and Security Committee. It's all contained in one paragraph. I guess these people weren't in vain, who, from a scientific point of view, were doing research for years and writing studies, which I read and which have 200 pages, and Jocic told us in one paragraph: that's how we dealt with corruption at Customs. Of course you didn't, because it all starts from the top, or from the management, or from Didic. Already today is a public secret and we also know the newly appointed Head of Administration, a certain Petronivic. A very important role in the functioning of the customs procedure and the application of this, as well as the eradication of corruption, has our judiciary. The judiciary, which should also be freed from political influence, is, of course, not what we see from the Terzic case and everything that happened seven years ago. It is also how it tends not to apply harsh sanctions and not to initiate criminal proceedings for those who are corrupt, because of what it is, the lawyers of the SRS Parliamentary Group and the people involved in this policy will also tell you, the most difficult thing to do is to get material evidence when it comes to corruption at customs, because there's a case of "tat a tet", you have one who's looking for a customs officer or head of administration, this new one now, which is probably, since it comes from a group of your conglomerate, which has committed so many abuses over the past seven years, is prone to corruption. The procedure is very difficult to prove, because, eyes to eyes, they are being arranged. That's how they're gonna run illegal goods. The biggest problem for a country like us, especially because of the fact that the southern Serbian province is occupied, is, right now, drug trafficking, weapons, white slavery, and I'm not talking about one of the biggest affairs during your government. You will say: "I have nothing to do with it", you were just a small thing at the time, the director of the Privatisation Agency, when former Dossian Minister Milan Vesenov exported it, Mr Batic knows it very well, but you know that it is true, over 200,000 copies of protected and rare birds from the Western district to an Italian firm; he earned money, he rubs his hands happily. At the time, while DOS was in power, we talked about it all the time at the pay phone, and you thought it was funny. "Flying birds, what difference does it make." It didn't matter that he made a lot of money, which at the time was known to which channels and how cigarettes were traded by Cane Frog, king of the tobacco mob. You knew very well, and so did the people of Customs, that in the frozen pea packages, it's one way, the cigarettes boxes, because they're easier, so it turns out that there's frozen fruit and vegetables in the trucks and the shoes, and during that time you were destroying domestic production and fruit and vegetables. All that mattered was for individuals to get rich, to rob the state budget. That's still the most important thing to you. Professional customs service, under this authority, which is prone to manipulation, through legislation and the appointment of such incompetent and corrupt people, do not hope that it will eventually be. I would really recommend, and to those of you who smile nicely, because the ridiculous Olympics are not now current in the Assembly, although this one started in Belgrade, that you try to learn something and denigrate into this problem, because it is the functioning of the state. It's the easiest thing to laugh and you don't know anything. Everything's nice, everything's colorful, I'll listen to everything, if one ear comes in, the other comes out. Learn something, try to get ready for the agenda. It doesn't matter, what Verica says, you press the appropriate red button, but at least know what it says, what it's expected of you. You'll still be held accountable tomorrow. You voted for this, and that doesn't mean anything. Where are all your other following laws? Where are your unsuspecting people in Customs? Where are the people who are deprived of any political influence in the judiciary? There's no such thing. As you look at the segment of social life, everywhere corruption and crime, in which the most individuals are, of course, employees, who are honest and honest people, individuals from the top of the government from these institutions are involved up to their throats. If we start with the case Mr. Duvnjak brought out, which is only one in a row, we're going to fight hard crime and corruption. It's an SRS imperative. Make sure we find the mechanisms in a very short time. I'll just say some of them, when we make a strategy to fight corruption, and in customs, and in health care, and in our entire system, because we can do it, and because no one can knock on our door at night, call us on the phone, threaten us, blackmail us. We're honest people, people who know the level of crime in this country, how scared ordinary people are when they come across a uniform face at a customs crossing. Why would a tourist who comes back from Greece or Turkey be afraid or not know from where, and not afraid of the criminals you protect and who you've been unhindered to get rich all this time while you're in power?- I'm sorry. Talk about it a little bit. Then let's talk about whose political biography they are and whether they are formally or not members of the Democratic or any other party that protects them. That'll take us far away. We will be brought to the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Gavrilovich, I will, since you are in a certain way a symbol of democracy, DS under the precepts, because you have been an MP for so many years, to give you several editions of books, which perhaps you have failed to buy, our president. You'll see everything, that by all the stitches of the hollow state, how corruption is conducted, how individuals get rich, who's all mixed up on the vertical, on the lateral line, and there's no philosophy. Let's talk about the direct impact of customs and foreign trade. Very large, but you won't admit it, because the liberalisation of our market and the smooth business of the import lobby led to the fact that the raspberries and other fruit farmers, the people who produce other vegetables and fruits, as well as those who deal with livestock production, are being held by the head, because the import lobby is doing what the Customs Administration is doing, of course, and what the Government, not protecting domestic production, such liberalisation is doing. Sometimes you're amazed and you laugh most often when we're making a partnership between us and brotherly and friendly Russia. Then you don't know the facts, because you don't deal, as Mr. Dejan Mirovic, with these exact data, which he is talking about and which are absolutely accurate. A few days ago, when we had talks at the House of the National Assembly, Mr. Grizzlov himself, president of the Russian Duma, confirmed data on the non-exploitation of the potential that was given to us on a scale through an external trade agreement on free trade with the brother's Russian state. I'm going to take just a few of the data out, and I'm going to round up this story as far as possible, because it can be said for hours, especially about me, the most important segment, corruption in customs, how we're going to protect domestic production, how we're going to use this free trade contract, in advance thanks to Mr. Dejan Mirovic for allowing me to make these, completely accurate data, read, or reach them. So in Russia, in 2006, there was a lower unemployment rate than in the European Union. In Russia, the rate was 6.6% and in the EU 8.5%, France - 8.7%, Germany - 7.1%. In 2006, Russia achieved a $65 billion budget surplus and an external trade surplus of $146 billion. Then you find yourself, and every factory that can produce something that we're going to put on our feet on a wide Russian market, unlike our current devastating, terrible situation. In the same period, Britain achieved a budget deficit of $67 billion and a foreign trade deficit of $135 billion. Germany recorded a budget deficit of $67 billion and France recorded $61 billion. Russia had a six-billion-dollar deficit with the EU in 1995, but in 2003 it was Brussels that recorded the deficit in trade with Russia, up to 18 billion euros. So much for the successful West, and so much for Russia, as you tend to say, to talk and, of course, to distract the public - about Russia's failure. Only the illustrations for, last year, when I was in the delegation of our party to the World Congress of Patriotic Parties in Moscow, the first news we heard that evening was that Vladimir Putin, president of the Russian Federation, continued his determined fight against corruption and crime, which, during his two mandates, had already been reduced to a minimum, on that day, not him, but the Russian state government, arrested several hundred customs officers who were found to be involved in crime and corruption. When you work so hard... It is funny, Mr. Minister, but you'll get your turn, too, and I believe the day will come when you'll have more sad than smiling eyes, when you'll freeze that smile. Of course, it's all going its own way, it's all going gradually. I believe in Serbia and the Serbian people, I believe in future determined radical rule, and, unlike you, I believe in brotherly Russia, especially Putinovo's methods of dealing with all crime and corruption, including corruption at customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4843	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go. There are 33 minutes left in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have had the opportunity today, as well as in previous days, to hear all that my colleagues, the MPs of the SRS, have heard about one thing, let me say, the senselessness of proposing these points of the agenda, at a time when Serbia is really in a difficult situation, both in terms of KIM and in terms of the very strong economic crisis that is shaking us. But when we talk about customs, reducing customs, when we talk about such laws, which we don't think we should have found at this point on the agenda, because it's funny to talk about fighting corruption when we don't have a Council of State Auditory Institutions as one of the most important anti-corruption bodies, when we don't have a Constitutional Court, when we don't have half-serious state bodies formed, then it's funny to talk about some more serious control and implementation of these programs. However, this is also an opportunity to talk about some things that are very important for Serbia in economic terms. We are aware, recently, that our state has concluded a fantastic contract with the General Motors Company, which will allow the car of the "oppel astra classic" to be made up in our country, that this job will help our economy. However, when the essence of this contract is looked at a little bit, it is quickly concluded that it is not fantastic at all, and when it is analysed more carefully, it can be concluded that it can be harmful to the Serbian economy. For what? Serbia's government has not told Serbian citizens that the General Motors Company will not invest any new dinar in infrastructure, nor will it invest any euro in new investments that would help domestic car industry or any other sphere of the Serbian economy. At the same time, as a comparative example, I can tell you that the Company "Kia" built in Slovakia's car factory on about 400 ha of bare ledina, where the Slovak state only participated in giving land, and only part of it, as a co-investor, means, not for free, and that "Kia" built a brand new factory, hired Slovak workers and made new cars. I can inform you that a similar project, on a similar surface, is realized by the Czech Republic, in a city that is literally on the border, and you know that the Czech Republic has its, second, auto-industry, and has found interest in building a factory like this. The question is, what's going on? We, at this point, by the government's decision, are importing this car already today as a domestic car, without customs. So, as a brand-new car, we're importing it into our market, without guarantees, since the assembly was planned for 2008. What happens if, for whatever reason, the General Motors Company doesn't do its part of the contract and doesn't start building up in 2008, and the state has given up its resources, it's customs, that 20%, without guarantees what happens if this part of the contract isn't realised? This car, which I really have nothing against, will be assembled on production strips, on the same production strips on which the 'flag 10' is made up. Let me remind you, flag 10 is a car operating on Fiat's license and in which the state invested a very large amount of money, as well as a flag. This, in practice, means that for the assembly of cars from the Polish factory "General Motors" – "Opel Astre", will not be employed by any new worker, but that the whole job will be carried out by a complete operation from "The flag", which is now working, for a period of just five years, without guarantee of what will happen after that period. Also, it is very important, although it can be discussed that "The flag" is currently making some kind of revenue from this job, what will happen, since none, any, agreement on the engagement of cooperative companies to produce parts for "astro", if the opera companies have already invested considerable money in winning productions for "the flag of 10", therefore, for a domestic car. And the question is, could such a contract ever be made, since the production planned by General Motors is about 10,000 cars a year. For those who understand less about this matter, I can say that it is a very small production, even for the Serbian market, and that the question is, whether any company that produces spare parts can compete for that species, or for that number of vehicles, which, in fact, would be too expensive to produce on our market. What's the balance on all this? We're going to import, practically, a car from a Polish factory that's only going to be put together here for five years. So, without customs and tax, one company enters the Serbian market and under privileged conditions sells its car. We're not hiring new workers in this business. The car, therefore, imports without customs, and the state has decided to deny itself that resource. At the same time, we are subtracting a large market with a large number of Serbian companies from the cooperative industry, which is now being used by the Zastava, and we need to count the domestic companies involved in the maintenance of the car. Because that agreement has not been reached either. Since the car is being made on the same production strips where the 'flag 10', we are, in fact, slowing down the production of a domestic car, in which the state has invested a lot, from whom 'Stava' expects to make profits, and we are producing a car that will be built and sold in Serbia, and 'Stava' will have a very small, marginal profit for it. So, if the state does not create more serious guarantees, if it remains in the same positions, that the General Motors company invests later -- whether through the privatisation of one piece or, let me say, through participation in the privatisation of the flag, or whether it invests in any way in the subsequent production of cars that could be made with domestic cooperative companies -- Serbia will be in great loss, the workers of the flag will be very bad and the future of the Zastava factory, which is not pink today, will be seriously questioned. That is why the Serbian Radical Party is urging the government and the assembly majority to live better, to stop signing these contracts and to start working in such a way as to make Serbia and its citizens truly better. That Serbia is beginning to realise new capital, not that, at the expense of the Serbian people, we are pushing money into the pockets of tycoons and various import lobbys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4845	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Nebojsa Stefanovic, an SRS MP, in the current exhibition and in this observation he made about the disastrous situation in the Automobile Industry in Kragujevac, showed that a Serbian radical is doing so and that Serbian radicals, regardless of what city they come from, are interested in all Serbia. Because you do not understand, especially you from the DS, that Serbia is one electoral unit and that you are chosen, by law, for the MPs, and that you need to get a little more, and in such a way, to include in all these burning issues, when the minister and others will not, especially around the carjacking factory. Not only him, but also all other colleagues who attended the Committee on Economic Reform 10 days ago, and counterpart Topalovic, a colleague of Ljubenovic, made an amazing contribution to solving the problem of the metal complex, Kragujevac workers and the whole of Serbia. With our insistence and presence, that committee was adopted, as a contribution, and a request to you, Mr. Minister, so I ask you to answer me how you have resolved the question of employees of the Employment and Education Office, because the deadline expires and the Institute ceases to work on the contract so far on August 31st. A colleague Stefanovic and all other Serbian radicals have made it clear that they are not at odds with the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been cheating on the workers of the flag and the whole state for seven years. The point of the problem isn't just this new delusion over the alleged production of "abbey astr". A colleague Stefanovic knows that information. The model, which is pompously promoted and which is reportedly to be produced in Serbia, became obsolete for both Germany and the whole European market two days ago. You know very well that in Germany is a valid year of production, not a day of registration, and that model is three years old. You know very well that the car 'flag 10', or 'Punto 2', is not the original product made in Kragujeva's flag. You might think that or live in another city. You're not from Kragujevac, like me, so you think they work there, and every day 300 or 400 cars are produced. I don't know, but I think 400 cars are scheduled for monthly production for flag 10. It's a completely imported product, just like from the Vero Italiano commercial, it's an original Italian product, with a "flag 10" on it, and only decontamination of that car is done in the flag, and then about that. You know what it's called-- from Thessaloniki 100 lemons. Whether these days or sometimes the conclusion of a 10 flag car will begin, so with the participation of our country's components, that's a big question. No tires, no shock absorbers, no motors, no lighting, no other tracking, no plastic equipment for the board instrument and for whatever it takes in that car. And why isn't there? It's not because all Zastava's co-operatives, for the past seven years, especially during Mr. Cvetkovic's management, have been sold into impunity. Now, when the management of Zastava, one of the directors and one of the people who has rarely light economic biography, deprived of any political influence, Mr. Miljko Erić, goes to the Elektro Rača factory and says, "I'm sorry, but I want to talk to you about what we need for the new model of "punta"...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4847	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4848	Here, I'll finish now. Yes, gentlemen, it is time, but it is time for you to help these people. Either stop cheating on them, or resign all resignations and withdraw from power, because you are incapable of solving anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4849	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The total time for the SRS group is 25 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4850	Here's another regulation that's, to say the least, unspeakable, and I would ask these DS observers to pay attention to the reasoning of this bill. It is not difficult, under II - Reasons for the adoption of this law, you can notice that this international convention was ratified by the former, rotten SFRY, back in 1982 and was published in the "Official List of SFRY - International Contracts" 10/84. If the Protocol of that same Convention is confirmed from a later date, then, in Article 3 or, possibly, to any other member of this proposal of the law, you have had to specify the fate of the basic text, even if you indicate that the adoption of this Protocol and the adoption of a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention ceases to be in force before the law, but there is no such thing. Why isn't he here? Because the composers, but the real composers, not those who represent the government and this bill, or the real draft laws, could not define the legal nature of this bill. You see, they called on the constitutional basis only to Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which point 4 is stated that the National Assembly confirms international contracts. However, you forgot that there is a Article 16 in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in the second position and second sentence says that confirmed international agreements must be in line with the Constitution. I argue that this bill, which contains something called an international contract, is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we shouldn't, because of Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to vote in favour of this bill. Why? I'll just take something that's most obvious, and now everyone can notice this. Let's say, I'm going to take something that's a side effect with the Protocol, so let's say Chapter 3, Appendix 2, where there's one standard, at point 3.20, which states that the customs authorities will allow the goods declaration to be filed at any particular customs office. This provision is totally contrary to the existing customs law. He who imports goods does not have this discretionary right, but the law obliges him precisely where certain goods must be carried to customs. If we were to accept this, then, practically, anyone could carry the goods wherever they want, if it were customs, where the Customs Mafia flourished. How does this customs mafia flourish? I'm going to remind you again of one case, I think it was a beautiful book published in the Serbian Freedom Mind, and it's about the Mercedes Benc affair. Of course, Labus has been involved in this affair since the time he was an opposition politician and has been quite involved in the affair. I don't want to mention names, so I don't get any notice here, but Biljana Radovanovic, Dusan Simic, etc., these characters are very well mentioned in this publication. About 150 pages has this publication and to see how the mafia agreed. They were Mercedes, who at the time had a customs rate of 42 or 43 percent, customs duty on the declaration as drugs, where the rate was about eight percent. That wasn't the problem either, but it was a problem that in the contingent there were Mercedes with a factory error on the gear and on the computer and, of course, they were meant for Kazakhstan, New Delhi, and this is how they smuggled into the Republic of Serbia, or the SRJ at the time. We've made some assessment, according to which somewhere between 10 million and 20 million marks of the state are damaged. A court case has been conducted, but I don't want to mention all the actors of this court case and all the judges of the First and Fourth Municipal Court who have made themselves known on this case, but I need to draw attention, let me skip this one, on Biljan Radovanovic and Dusan Simic, who even threatened one of the damaged persons, that if he talks a lot on the subject, anything can happen. Otherwise, this affair is familiar with all those who were in power in 2001, starting with Dusan Mihajlovic. There is no Mr. Batic, and he is familiar, perhaps not originally, although I know that one of the advisers from the ministry even, the ignorant party taught how to write complaints, lawsuits etc. So we're not talking about Mr. Batic as a patient, because it has something to do with this damaged face. The state knew, and if the state had cleared up with that crime in Customs in 2001, we wouldn't have been able to be surprised today, and customs, and oil, and road, and this, and school, and the Kragujeva, and the pyrotic, and I don't know what all the mobs are anymore. It's just, ever since democracy came, only the mobs have come forward. It's a sign of recognition. Mafia, mafia and mafia. So, I've only tried here on one occasion to prove to you that certain provisions of this protocol are in stark contrast to constitutional solutions from our constitution, and that's now a restriction that we can't vote. Of course, the government won't accept it, because you know how much they care about the Constitution, they don't care about the Constitution at all, they completely forgot that last October they campaigned to adopt the Constitution, etc. They were probably campaigning for the preamble to the Constitution, and other provisions were not of interest to them. So now we have an import lobby in place. So there's no confusion, and now someone's saying, these radicals are just criticizing, and they even dared to criticise what is an international contract or an international convention, and it's full of something called definitions, standards, so it can be said that in some way, customs uzans, if that word "uzans" corresponds to the word customs. What's this about? One of the flows of imperialism and the only positive fluid of imperialism is the accelerated flow of money, goods and capital, with what is called an international standard. That's where the positive fluids of imperialism end, everything else is negative. Of course, in general globalisation, where the ultimate goal is one government and one religion, including one economy, one culture, that one economy is also looking for a fast transport of goods between some territories, where there simply can't be a limit, because that's how the flow of goods slows down. In this flow of goods, this efficiency achieves profit and the representatives of globalism do not want to have state borders, and where there must be, such or similar protocols and conventions, this is nothing, because until the end of the convention, the procedure for customs controls, customs controls, customs controls, customs duties, etc. is simplified. Because when something goes into transit, it can be done with us, or stuck here. Could this protocol and this act, which we confirm, have benefited the Republic of Serbia? She could have. It'll seem strange to you, but she could. Why? The signatories and those who created this protocol as a form of change and addition of an international convention, it is so-called. a contract type, although it is a non-contractual act, because it aims to grow into an international standard, which would not only oblige signatories, but as it goes by international standard, i.e. all those negotiating the basic text of the Convention and of this Protocol negotiated with attributes of respect for statehood, national sovereignty and territorial integrity of each high-level party in this Convention. Therefore, there is an appropriate selection in certain members, where an appropriate reserve is allowed for those who sign or join the Convention. Chuck, I think we have the wrong name for this bill. This law should contain a word in itself - that we approach the Protocol, because that deadline prescribed by the Protocol has expired. Where to talk about these finesse with the government of the democratic bloc, because there's a drop -- the system, there's no other system, there's no rights, no politics, ideology is the euro and the dollar. Now that you mention something, I'd rather talk about an agreement signed in Kyoto that concerns the global protection of planet Earth. You can't hit your sponsors here, your fathers and stepdads at close range, and those over the bar. I know, you're small, you're poor, you can't tell what kind of backup this would be compared to this protocol. Since this protocol, in fact, gives a refined text, a good part, a consolidated text of this Convention, did there exist any space? I don't want to invite you to a member who, as far as you're concerned, doesn't mean anything to you, absolutely nothing, but, let's just say, if this is an international standard, and I want to promote myself as a country that respects international standards, I would take this opportunity to potential Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Because several members allow us to make a proper reserve. I would, for example, make a reservation regarding this usurpation of government in Kosovo and the Metohija done by the United Nations, or I would resort to another variant -- I would point out that, by signing this, I am taking the obligation to apply all of this in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija. But you can't say that. It's just a matter of work. Those words, Kosovo and Metohija, can mention Kostunica, can also mention Tadic. The rest of you, contractors, as Mr Djindjic says under quotes, must not think about it. Why? Because you don't know what attitude is. Maybe it changed overnight. In a moment, that changes with you. If I were a minister, I'd point out that kind of guarantee. The protocol applies throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which includes both Kosovo and Metohija. If you put that on, all radicals would probably vote yes. But you're not going to put that on. You see, our confirmation law has three members -- first, introductory, second, where the text in English and Serbian of this protocol is listed, and third, when this law comes into force. Why didn't you use any of these phrases in terms of reserves, guarantees or potentials? What's the reason? The reason is very simple, you know. You'll probably adopt this by force, but I need to draw your attention that it's not even a third of the work you've done in favor of the import lobby. Why? This protocol cannot be applied directly and cannot become an integral part of our legal-political system. Based on this protocol, you must change customs regulations in Serbia. If you're going the other way, and you think there's something here that's become an integral part of our legal system, then you're committing a crime, that's what I have to tell you in advance. Why? We really need to imagine ourselves above our regulations that contain some blancuous trust or authority for the government or for some minister. Well, then, example Djelic. He freed certain customs goods from customs. Who is he to free her? Based on some authority from the Customs Code, which gives the Government the right to prescribe certain rates, etc. No, we need to get the strength to return everything to customs tariff and that all releases can only be prescribed by law, not by someone like an alien. He's a gift. What's he giving? What did he do in Kragujevac so he could give someone away? He needs to fill his pockets with money for those who have too much money anyway, and we need him to cheat on us. It was with one co-production, it's with the other and, of course, it needs to be taken away. A stranger came to Serbia to invest, immediately chased by Mladjan Dinkic to give him 2,000 euros each for each of his new superior employees. Based on what? What's the percentage? What regulation? He showed up as a percentage as a rule. Of course, you're squirming when we're criticizing Djelic and Dinkic, so I don't order that play of "drp system". You, even, feel personally offended, as if a man had taken you away. Well, we're not you. We know you're only here to raise your hands. You don't need to be squirming. So in 2001, 2002, some of your predecessors were scrambling here, so here, you're haunting them now. I remember when I called here last year, last year, when you'd arrest Bogoljub Karic. Everyone jumped against me. It hasn't been three months, and they arrested him. Yeah, that's how it was, especially those of the DSS -- how you're not ashamed, how this, how it was. Well, in 2002, I was talking to this Radet Terzic in RIK -- get away from these Djindjics, you're going to get hurt. Three days later he met me, he says, you were right. With the Democratic Party of Courgettes, everything's pounding on his head. It's some kind of democratic party's legality. You should run as far away as possible. No deal with DS. Here, you see, DSS-DS, what deal is that? No deal. There's no deal to be made. We have a bad driver at the helm of the state. We have a driver who didn't pass the driver's test. Would one of his parents let his kid ride on a bus that drives someone who doesn't have a driver's license? No normal parent would allow it. But unfortunately, this country is driven by people who don't have a driver's license. Then we can have these things. Next, here, just to remind you which possible reserves can be placed. Here, with regard to the appeal, regarding the disciplinary procedure. There are solutions that are completely contrary to our constitution. You have in Appendix 1, Title 12 - Accepting provisions and placing reserves. So this protocol gives you the opportunity to put in a spare, which you don't want to apply, what you're postponing for a later period. You're nothing. You're probably using that provision so that later you can notify something you wouldn't apply. In the end, let me just remind you of another, in my opinion, very significant provision. It's said, it's now Article 3. Protocols, item 2: 'This Protocol is open for the signing by the parties to the Parties to the Convention by 30 June 2000 at the seat of the Council in Brussels. After that, it will be open for their accession. "As there is no need to convince you, we are in July 2007. So we've been out of that deadline for seven years. So now we have to approach, not accept, but fine. What do we do now, when you don't care about it, you care about getting through this. Now, I'm not going to go into these reasons, which were recently very good discussions, about our strategic partners, where we should export, with whom we should be good at economic relations, etc. I don't want to spoil the very nice debate the MPs have had, but I must tell you that you have not given a single sentence in which you have stated the benefit of this country. You don't have a single sentence on what's good for this country. If you had at least one more sentence, so to speak, of signing this agreement, the direct benefit will be that much and so much! He doesn't have that either. Do you have an estimate? Let me remind you one more thing about the customs procedure, customs. We have, even, a few agreements. We have a regional agreement here, and then we have an agreement where you took money from the Americans to equip customs offices with computers, to make it easier to hunt criminals, that is, to make it easier for them to finish jobs, not hunt them. Who did you catch? And if you caught someone, it would be a devastation in the Democratic Party, you'd catch your own. That's not allowed. That's forbidden. How do you hunt your own? Now, we're warning you in time. And we warned some previous government what could happen. We specifically warned from 2001 to 2003 what could happen. Here, you see, it's been three years and it's all happening, everything we've told you. Those who came in 2004, we also warned, so it happened. Here's a few more warnings, in the end. When are you going to arrest Mladjan Dinkic? You see, when are you going to arrest Mladjan Dinkic, the father-in-law. No laughing, no disrespect. Have you noticed what's different from what was two years ago? Now it's won this at its own weight. Is there any reason to arrest him? There is. And there's no reason to arrest him. Take care, when you're doing the next arrest, not to mention some words: the inspirer, the organizer, the political patron, etc., because I promise you that no one will ever make me withdraw the charges against you again. We sued you in 2003, so someone was a painful heart in the Serbian Radical Party, so he said, "Come on, don't let Ljiljana Nestorovic die, poor thing, when she heard we sued her, don't these, don't they." We will no longer withdraw charges for defamation statements coming towards the Serbian Radical Party. We're warning you in time. Take care. You've taken a path that leads only to the pit. This is no threat, you know. It leads to a pit, a pit the leader didn't see, because they later saw that their leader was blind. What you're pushing by force, the only argument is that you have 126 votes, it's bad for both the people and the state, and for the actors of that policy. Why is it bad for the actors of that policy? Because the bar's getting smaller and the crocodile's number's increasing. When the number of crocodiles increases, they bite, they devour. If someone devours you, it can happen that it's just someone a little stronger, someone who has more capital and more influence in criminal business. It's all in the family. Take care of what you do, what you promise, what you offer abroad, what guarantees you give. Someone just asked a question, what does this have to adopt today? What wasn't adopted, say, a year ago? This is a condition for starting these negotiations on yours, as it is called, stabilisation, etc. Well, people, no one in Western Europe respects European Union regulations. They only respect them as much as they do. If the regulation is right for him, he respects him, if he does not respond, he does not ratify him and he does not respect him. That's how Western Europe works, and you kill yourself explaining how it has to be, it's mandatory, if it's not there, there's no oxygen tomorrow in Serbia. That's not true. Each state operates on a system of safeguarding its own interests, because it protects its interests. The English tell everyone, we don't tolerate the constitution, we don't suffer any written acts. As he said, we don't even tolerate human rights, we don't care about human rights. That's what the English say. I do not dispute them that the Democrats are some, in their own way, so let them be such Democrats. But, come on, keep our interests safe. What we have is not a renewable resource. I would just like to make a proposal to the president of the Assembly, given that it is walking around the Balkans and that it is developing friendly relations. Make an agreement on the readmission of Albanians in Albania. They've been coming in here for years, let's do a reading of these foreign citizens. This is the greatest principle and the greatest proof of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4851	Thank you. I'm setting a break. Resume work at 3:30. [[after breaks]] I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, v - no one, abstentioned - no one voted six, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle and in general in the day to vote. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE VEHICLES OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS Before the beginning, I would like to inform you that we will continue the work after 18 hours for the point on the agenda. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour 16 minutes 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes, 12 seconds, Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, The Union of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. MPs who don't belong to any of the MPs, one MP, five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the proposing representative, MP Miroslav Petkovic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, want a word? (No) Does the Registrar want a word? Here you go. Minister of Justice Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4852	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Serbian Parliament, as it decides on the election of judges and prosecutors, hence the holders of judicial functions in Serbia, is also making a decision that determines the termination of their duties, their functions. And according to both law and law, therefore, and the law governing the status of judges, and the law governing the status of prosecutors and their deputies, there are three groups of reasons for ending office. One is the resolution, the other is the end of the working century, and the third is the personal request. Of course, death, in those cases when it happens by the nature of things, is the reason for stopping function. However, without a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is not possible, formally and legally, to establish that anyone chosen by this assembly has lost the opportunity, the right and the duty to perform prosecutorial and judicial functions, unless in one case, and that is if he asked for it himself. For various reasons, in the previous assembly of Parliament and in these two months, there were no conditions for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make this kind of decision, such a group of very important decisions. It is necessary for this to happen and for Parliament to do so, in order to be able to carry out the appointment and to enter into the procedure for selecting those holders of judicial functions that are necessary before that to establish the termination of their function. On the agenda today, it is up to the Republic of Public Prosecutors to establish the termination of office of the Republic of Public Prosecutors for five persons who are currently serving as district attorneys and municipal public prosecutors and for four deputy district and municipal public prosecutors, as well as for two judges who, at their request, asked Parliament to determine the termination of their duties, and for a number of judges with whom they also obtained conditions for the termination of the working century. I also want to say a few words about one thing that seems formal-legal, which is essentially very important, very important, and in the proposal for a decision delivered by the Justice Committee to this Parliament is an integral part of those decisions, and it concerns the date when, above all, the prosecutorial, or the judicial function ceases, and to the persons whose functions stop because of the end of the working century. The Prosecution Act, Article 79, defined two ways to determine the moment when the prosecutor's office for those prosecutors ceases, analoguely, and for the judges who sought it themselves, therefore, on a personal request. If the Serbian Parliament does not make a decision within a month of the day of the application, by law, these functions will cease and it is necessary to establish and publish it in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". For those holders of judicial functions whose prosecutorial or judicial office ends due to the completion of the working century, it was left to the Serbian Parliament, which was defined by article 2. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, to determine the date of termination of these functions. I mean, lawyers know that, and for those who don't, it's very important that they have a clear idea of it, the prosecution is an organ that functions on the principle of subordination. So the prosecution is one pyramid. The head of the pyramid is the Republic Public Prosecutor. In the further ranks of the pyramid are district and municipal public prosecutors. They all have their deputies. The whole system works by representing one organic continent. That is why it is very important, in my deep confidence, that the Serbian Parliament adopts in this form, as it is proposed, decisions to determine the termination of functions for prosecutors and judges, therefore, that the day of decision-making should be the day of termination of their functions, because it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the functioning of the entire Public Prosecutor's system in Serbia, and that we avoid very serious complications that could occur if there is a discontinuity in the performance of these functions. This discontinuity can produce very serious consequences both in criminal proceedings and in litigation procedures, where there are powers of operators of these functions. I call on the Assembly to adopt its decisions as the Committee for Justice and Administration has delivered them to this Parliament. It will pave the way, i.e. it is a very big step towards full reconstruction of both the prosecution system and the courts, their alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I deeply believe that all together, in the course of this year or early next year, we will be able to pass essential laws, the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, that the prosecution will get all the powers of an independent body, that the judiciary will get full independence, according to standards in force in the civilised world, and that this assembly of Parliament will have this opportunity, this capacity, that honor to bring justice to Serbia where it must be found, in order to fully protect the interests of Serbian citizens, in order to provide judicial protection for the rights and interests that citizens and legal persons in this country have and that we all together take a great step towards life as it deserves and must have Serbia at the beginning of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4853	I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the SRS for this item of the agenda is the People's MP, Verice Radet. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Vladan Batic has issued an opinion on the Committee on Justice. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4854	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been almost six months since the constitution of Parliament, and this item of the agenda could have been found much earlier if there were no irresponsibility, negligentness, party notions of justice, auctioning, trade, cheap party interests in all this. Of course we will vote to resolve those holders of judicial functions whose names are on the agenda. Then what's the problem? First, I will explain my position and position as our parliamentary group when it comes to the Republic Public Prosecutor, or the State Prosecutor, the current, former, virtual, whose name is Slobodan Jankovic. We were a country that had a pensioner for almost two years at the head of the prosecutor's office. What Mr. Minister said is not true. What's this about? Semantic, telelogical, linguistic, logical, grammatical interpretation of the legal norm, the conclusion is quite clear, even the layman, that the prosecutorial function, among other things, ceases to be done by working century. Article 68. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, imperatively, states the working age ends at 65 years of age and there is no guessing about it. It's not some question now that we can run the polemics around. Slobodan Jankovic finished his working century on December 10th 2005. That's when he had to stop his prosecutorial post. In a material presented to the members of the Justice Committee, you have a kind of paradox - that a man who was due to retire on December 10, 2005, suggests that all other prosecutors be resolved because they had completed their working life, and before all of them, he had completed his working life. So, the difference in opinion is that what is said is true -- that the Assembly determines the date of termination of the prosecutor's office, but the Assembly is bound by law, and the law says it ends with 65 years of life, for Slobodan Jankovic on December 10th 2005. There's no guess about that. I understand what the goal is. The goal is to strengthen, to consolidate all those illegal decisions that Slobodan Jankovic made, and he made illegal decisions. Since today or tomorrow, in the morning, the official of duty should choose the High Council of Justice, remember the case when Slobodan Jankovic launched an initiative to resolve the third prosecutor - Gordana Colic. The High Justice Council said, "You have no right to do this, you are a pensioner, go to Calemegday, walk grandkids, play dominoes with your colleagues," but you needed Slobodan Jankovic to do illegal things, for example, to issue mandatory instructions. Now it is mandatory to hit Serbian citizens, but for another prosecutor, for the one arrested for mandatory instructions, for Radet Terzic. Slobodan Jankovic issued a mandatory instruction to lift the search warrant, Miri Markovic. What's it gonna be? We listened and watched on the media that Mira Markovic was mentioned as one of the main indictees in the murder of Curuvia. That hasn't been made public yet, but that's how it's gonna be. I ask you, then will Slobodan Jankovic be arrested because he issued a mandatory instruction to lift her arrest warrant and arrest? Answer that. Or, one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4855	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4856	This is important, Mr. President. I'll get back to you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me finish. I'll be there in a minute. Thank you for understanding. I have to teach some colleagues, and I'm bound to do it by the function I once performed, and by some of the knowledge that I have, and by something that is a moral system of value, not just legal knowledge. Because I see some who just walk past law school interpreting the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4857	Mr. Batic, then let's report to the Rules of Procedure and explain that, since you're running out of time. The word has been given by the People's MP Verica Radeta, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4858	Good morning, Mr. Petrovich. This is how I greet you because you just acted like you were asleep on October 5th, like a thorn rose, and you woke up to tell us fairy tales, as if we didn't know what was going on from October 5th in the area of justice until today. What you've told us has nothing to do with the law, nothing to do with the interpretation of the law, and I really think I'm bound by it, like the other MPs, to draw your attention to it. The only thing according to the law, or according to the Rules of Procedure, is to put it on the agenda of what is now on the agenda, although it is incomprehensible and incomprehensible why today, why not to this day. This is a question for you too, this is also a question for that government before you. I'll remind you in the course of further discussions on some dates that I don't know if you'll have a valid explanation. You have explained to us what the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is when it comes to judicial authorities, i.e. the holders of judicial functions, thank you, should not have. You have explained to us which, by law, are the reasons for the termination of judicial functions, too, thank you, should not. You should have explained to us what the MPs in this room and the public of Serbia are interested in. You said that until today there were no conditions to discuss what we are discussing in this or in that previous meeting. I really didn't understand what the conditions were, were these conditions that you didn't have so far because you didn't have 126 like-minded people, when it came to these names that we're going to talk about today, which were public prosecutorial functions. That's the only logical reason you can point out which one you've been keeping quiet. I really don't know what other reasons they had to come up with, and you're saying they didn't make it till today. When you were talking about the state prosecutor, you were talking about the prosecutor's pyramid, whose head is the state's attorney. I ask you, Mr Petrovic, how has this pyramid functioned for two years without its formal and official legislative summit? You had it, but where is your legal basis? You didn't explain that. That's not what you're talking about, because you have no explanation, as I'm sure you have no explanation for anything, but for the second time since you're in power, the state of Serbia has no Constitutional Court. It's not a topic for you either. One day when you succeed, when you make a deal again, when you gather 126 votes to vote some names, then you'll say as you do now - no conditions have been met. You've also told us about future laws, I don't know why, but you'll probably be talking about it if you're still a minister, when you pass those laws here, in the procedure of the National Assembly. Don't talk about some country of dembelia in the judiciary, which, perhaps, someday will be. While you're a minister, it won't be safe, because we know very well and have experience from the time you were a folk MP, how you and your colleague, Bosko Ristic, who, I see, listens very carefully to me, has also set up judges and prosecutors, how the presidents of the courts have become people whose first legal job, as it is at the same session, to remind you of the Serbian public, to remind you, someone has been elected judge and president of the court. Then you appointed the heads of the legal department of the farming cooperatives as presidents of the courts; vd the prosecutor, that's a special story. Let's just remind ourselves, briefly, of the appointment of prosecutors and judges at the time of Sabela's action. You remember, away from the public eye, you needed the congregation majority of Chank's messengers, they were your tas on the scale, and then Chanak shot you, and then you set up Mr. Ostojić, and then you set up Mrs. Biserka, that is, I called her Biserka for her pearls. What was the name of the president... I'll remember, of course. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Sonja Brkic. ) Sonja Brkić, thank Natasa, of course, the encyclopedia of Natasa. Sonja Brkic was elected Serbian Supreme Court President. The consequences of their actions in Serbia's judiciary are still felt today, they feel, above all, at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because today you have an obligation to every citizen of 12,000 who you arrested during the "Sabbe" action, whoever addressed the competent court, against whom no proceedings have been initiated, and most of them are, all those people who have sued you have received judicial judgments and the state of Serbia must pay them adequate compensation. No one asks who's responsible for this, no one asks who's responsible, why Rade Terzic was Belgrade's district prosecutor. You DOS guys set it up. For you, DOS was untouchable. I was talking this morning, and now I repeat that you hear, when we called Radet Terzic and warned Zoran Djindjic not to send him to the "Milosev Konak" restaurant, that he was forcing some people there and blackmailing them to make false accusations against Vojislav Seselj, at a time when a political hack against Vojislav Seselj in Serbia was led, then, when we mention Radet Terzic in that context, you were jumping in the eyes, shouting -- in, and, and, what not, from these benches. Today, three days ago, you took Radet Terzić, handcuffed, to CZ. Unlike you and the government representatives, both these and the previous, Kostunica, as well as the previous ones, I will not talk today about the works or the Sundays of Radet Terzic. He is now in the hands of the judicial authorities and I hope that he is in the hands of an honorary prosecutor and judge, who cares about the profession, the honor and who will lead the procedure in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, none of the public's interesting actions in Serbia in the past seven years, obviously following certain verdicts, are conducted in accordance with the law and the principle that the law is equal for all, i.e. that they are all the same under the law. Every verdict is with so many tails, with so many stories, with so many documents, books and books you wrote, all saying, among other things, about how any of you influenced this judge or that prosecutor, and in the meantime, you got into a fight somewhere, and then he accuses that one, he blames that one, and basically, you're all the same. That's why, when you come out, so you accuse those before you, we say you're right, as they accuse you, too, we say you're right, because that's really true. You haven't spoken, Mr. Minister, even though we're talking about prosecutors today, what's going on with Mrs. Milena Ilic-Drecun, do you have an explanation, and where the second president of the Supreme Court Council is here, where Mrs. President is. When the press asked her the other day if she knew why Mrs Dracun resigned, she said the resignation was a personal act. Discovered America. Of course it's a personal act, but Mrs Drecun said and therefore resigned - because she didn't want to participate in decisions breaking the law. Also, she said that until the verdict becomes a forceful one, she would not give any more details. Because she did her job with honor, she had to resign. I can see that here, too, is on the list of these judges who need to stop legal functions, I just don't know if he's going to be able to at least work as a lawyer. Because you have a strange manner of not allowing some to be lawyers, if they weren't judges to your extent. Tomorrow, we expect you to appoint an acting official, not someone, but already known, is what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said - rather for the asylum, than for the court - Radovanovic, who has already resigned, to be appointed as acting prosecutor. Since this is happening on some secret arrangements and meetings, and only in the official messenger is we get a notice about what you're going to justify setting him up? Since we won't be able to talk about it here, I'm asking you now, what will you justify setting him up? By pressing charges against a dead man? Is that his legal knowledge? Is that the credit he's going to be the Attorney General for? I'd like to ask you more, Mr. Secretary. You heard that more than once when you were a Parliamentarian. What happened, and I expected, when you were Minister, that you would remember these discussions of ours, we often reminded you, with the initiative of the SRS that Danko Lausevic, Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, resolved the judicial functions? I remind the public that Danko Lausevic, Professor Vojislav Seselj, sentenced him to parole because he hesitated, it said so, and insulted Stanko Subotic Canet, the Frog, because he called him the head of the tobacco mob. The district court annulled that decision, returned it to the Fifth Municipal Court, and it has been five years, here, Vojislav Seselj is the fifth year, almost five years in The Hague tribunal, so more than that has passed, and the case stands in the drawer of this Danko Lausevic. Here you are now admitting that Stanko Sobotić Cane is the head of the tobacco mob. You put him on an international BOLO. What's going on now? Isn't there a condition now that this man, at least, gets rid of such a flagrant violation of the law that we've written and talked about and often reminded you of? Of course, Danko Lausevic was your judge. You set him up, you from DOS. I don't know if you personally, I don't know if it's from Capca. I remind you, that's the judge who, when we were at one debate, when the main search went on, the cell phone rang. A full hall full of interested public, prosecutor, defendants and lawyers, and he answers his cell phone and says, "Bye, love, I can't, I don't give a shit." So, you've been setting up amazing judges, and that's why it's no wonder we have this situation in the judiciary. Now, specifically, Mr. Petrovic, I would like you to respond to the National Assembly on what was going on, or what will happen to the decisions that Slobodan Jankovic, the republican public prosecutor, made, and many since 10 December 2005, or 6 February 2006, because these are the dates when he fulfilled both 65 years of life and 40 years of insurance, i.e. employment, people's terms? What will happen and who is responsible for this man doing this high office for almost two years, making various decisions? What will be the consequences of these decisions? Where did you find and who found the legal basis so he could do it? Imagine, he was supposed to stop the prosecutorial post either at the end of 2005 or in early 2006, which you want the date - choose, and we have with his signature a dozen proposals for the termination of public prosecutorial functions by municipal and district prosecutors! So how could he even sign it, how could he propose to the Assembly, when he doesn't have a legal basis to do what he's still doing? I really don't understand how, as a lawyer and who in this room and in the state of Serbia will you convince that this is a legal regulatory situation? Whether these people will, and you said it was logical to suggest that the day of decision-making, which is, for example, the day of decision-making. Today or, eventually, tomorrow, when you are gathered 126, to be the day of termination of the office of all these prosecutors? I'm asking you now what they were doing in the meantime? Were they prosecutors, or weren't they? Were they getting paid or not? Were they acting on the subject, or weren't they? Were there people with no authority, no job, no pay? Any of these variants that it is, it's against the law and someone's responsible for it. I ask you, do you, as current minister, assume this responsibility or do you think, share my opinion, that the full government, with Kostunica in charge, and now and last term, when he was Prime Minister? So, today you tried, and you probably expected, and that's why you put this, back-to-back, on the agenda, that the MPs will be unprepared and that they will not engage in a debate with you on such important issues. Then you pushed it so little before, you probably told the services -- whoever was sitting in the O.R., got this material, and whoever wasn't sitting in the O.R. wasn't left behind. So, you tried to, somehow, if at all possible, not to be noticed. It's too important and it's too big a deal, Mr. Petrovic, to go undetected. This will remain as a black spot and in your career, of course, with everything that you are as a folk MP, before that the President of the municipality, and also your official, the Democratic Party, abused, putting his staff across certain people in the Justice Committee, and later some contracts, here, in the National Assembly. So it's unacceptable what you're doing. What's most important, when a state prosecutor like Jankovic, or whatever his name is, ends up working as a prosecutor, the least he's expected to do is come here, to report to the Assembly about his work, to talk a little bit about what he's been doing. Maybe to pass on his experiences, if he had any pretty and smart, to some future prosecutor. No, you don't, of course, and that's why your prosecutors end up with handcuffs on their hands. He who does not and does not have the courage to confess himself well to his people must say elsewhere what he did, perhaps willingly, perhaps reluctantly, perhaps. That's probably what everybody's gonna say. That's probably what Rade Terzic will say. What he was doing - because he wanted to and thought he should, and what he was doing - because he had to, and by whose order, of course. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4859	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4860	So, I'm done. The SRS MPs, regardless of what formally appears to have to vote, will not take part in the vote. We know these people are going to stop being sued. But we want to show you that you can't rape the law anymore, that you have to act serious. This country, whatever laws there are, they, Mr Petrovic, must be applied. Learn something from your idea maker - stick to the law like a drunk float.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4861	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic called, and then MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Article 226, question for the minister, Mr. Petrovic. I don't see this list of prosecutors named Milan Radovanovic, the prosecutor who died after the proceedings against him led by Slobodan Radovanovic. I ask the question for a simple reason, did the Assembly find out or, perhaps, the deceased is still a public prosecutor? I don't see a tragically injured judge from Odjak. You were on the scene the same day, and that's correct and beautiful, but also, the Assembly didn't realize that his judge's death function had ceased, because it was one of the reasons for his prosecutorial or judicial office to stop. Why am I saying all this? For a simple reason - what would happen if, God forbid, Slobodan Jankovic died and would the state prosecutor, who was retired, perhaps as a deceased, continue to serve as a state prosecutor? You should have told the Assembly honestly why it's done today, and that's because tomorrow's the last day for selecting a special prosecutor for organized crime. It's not nice for a man who's retired for almost two years, so a pensioner, to choose a special prosecutor for organized crime. Which is a lot - it's a lot. I will remind you, after the news has been passed that Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, in fact, by decision of the High Council of Justice, will be elected as the performer of the duties of the Republic Prosecutor, that it is a man who has selectively conducted all proceedings against the so-called. The mafia, the bankrupt, not accusing one of Serbia's masters, who is in charge of "the bankruptcy mafia", the "duvanski", the same master of Serbia, who, through Cyprus and his businesses in Cyprus, is the largest winemaker of tobacco smuggling in these areas. Not to mention the main leaders of the "Drum" or "road Mafia", because their peak is in the government of the Republic of Serbia, not to mention the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. He also does not deal with how the members of the "earth clan" provided the inauguration of the then president of the SRJ in the "Sava" centre on 7 October 2000, or how the unauthorized president of the SRJ held Radet Markovic as head of the State Security, and these are the people involved in the most monstrous crimes in these premises, nor the murder of Gavrilovic, nor the whole series of Red Beret rebellion, by letting Bagzi out of custody. Remember whose candidate was the President of the Fourth Municipal Court, who decided to abolish all detentions. The man is a party prosecutor, a participant in the National Coalition Convention. Slobodan Janković, former and Slobodan Radovanović - future, beautiful, rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4863	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4864	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Petrovic, I apologize, I'm the head of the parliamentary group, not according to the Rules of Procedure. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4865	It's no problem. You've got 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4866	All right, I won't be needing that much. A very important debate is ahead of us, MPs. There are several objective problems we can't understand. Among other things, the fact is that we are in one position where Parliament should have an understanding for the Serbian prosecutor's office, and on the other hand, it must have understanding of the role that follows us MPs. The big question is how much Parliament is able to lead an objective and serious debate on such a big issue as the issue of the Serbian judiciary, but I think that we, as MPs, must make a major contribution to creating the necessary preconditions needed by the Serbian judiciary, if we want the judiciary to be the way you mentioned it in your speech, or how MPs spoke of it during this debate and previous debates. So, what's the problem? The first problem is the fact that at 4:30 today we realize that conditions have been obtained, the necessary conditions, for the resolution of the Republic Prosecutor, and thus we open the door to the new republican prosecutor, and then to all the other prosecutors who are in the hierarchy below. What are the conditions that didn't exist yesterday, seven days ago, six months ago, six months ago, a year or two ago, when the first legal conditions for finding out what we're going to figure out today in this debate? They can only be political. They're not legal. Legal conditions existed in December 2005, i.e. in February 2006, if the fate and position of the state prosecutor, Mr Slobodan Jankovic. If the legal conditions are not respected, then legal conditions are not important, or are less important than some others. These others are political and this is the basic problem of this debate, and it will leave devastating consequences behind, not getting into the analysis of the new carriers of these functions, because we can only guess who they are. What is the problem, Mr Petrovic, in your performance in Parliament, is the lack of an analysis of work, because that work analysis was necessary, although your position is, to a good extent, limited by the function and the fact that as a minister of justice, you are not a person who can play a crucial role in assessing the work of prosecutors or judges. There was a lack of gratitude for the people who spent the entire working life in our judicial system. Is the lack of this simple "thank you" because these people don't deserve gratitude, was that a absence of any consideration for "top meat," bureaucratic, which comes and passes in that political machine that destroys everything in front of you? If the only essential conditions are met, they're political. It is important to say on which criteria these political conditions are defined. Did the party, or state, and did everything that happened in the previous years and previous months and days ring a bell in those circles that have a crucial impact on the country's state policy, and resulting in a decision that our judicial system is further depolitised, to be professionalised, or is our state policy in such a state in such a state that there is no longer any means to protect itself, other than the abuse of judicial institutions?- I'm sorry. We think that this is another issue and that the political conditions are what are described today as crucial conditions for resolving and establishing the end of the term of office for prosecutors and judges, which opens up the possibility of selecting some new holders of these functions. We think that these motives are purely political and that they are the result of the inability of the current government to be realized in any other normal way than through the abuse of all institutions, and so is the institution of justice. We, as an MP group, have sent you a memo today, and we have sent you some of the materials that we have, and we have done so in all other cases where we think we should do so. I hope you will respond to this question and I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. What our parliamentary group wants to say and what we insist on is precisely this devastating abuse of justice and instrumentalisation in the daily achievement of the defined policy on which the ruling coalition rests. I think that, as Parliament, we need to discuss some of the problems our judiciary faces, and this is the result of our politicians' actions. Why are we going to choose an official of the D.A.'s office? Why didn't we get those laws that this society needs in order to develop the justice system in the direction in which it must develop, if we want to be part of the modern European community? There was no time, or no plan, or no intention. There was enough time for such a thing, but respect for the wrong continuity is practically your position, the same position we were in in 2000, or you are the minister of the ruins of the Serbian judiciary. If we are talking about the lack of a plan, then for this plan, even we are no longer responsible, because this plan is defined by the process of European integration in which we, to a greater or less extent, have stepped willingly and long ago. It's a very clear order of moves. At this point, above all, he asks and asks us as MPs to say who is responsible because the Serbian judiciary was run by old people, incompetent people, political subjects of the previous government, the service of the existing government, and people from whom the same government is forgiven without a simple "thank you" for what they did. Who is responsible for Slobodan Jankovic being a state prosecutor despite the Law by which he had to stop his working relationship in December 2005 or February 2006? In one case - due to 65 years of life, in another - due to 40 years of work experience. Who's responsible for that? By half last year, Minister Stojkovic, but since half last year, even previous Minister Stojkovic has asked Parliament to realise that the man's mandate has ceased. Who is responsible for Parliament's failure to establish it? Are those MPs? With the previous chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Obradicz SPS, I spoke to him, I warned him of the circumstances in which we would enter if the Committee did not start doing its job. So, at this point, the only political interest is behind this initiative. Since we know what the character of this policy is, we are opposed to that initiative. I'll tell you from the Democratic Party what you know, and what, I don't know for what reason, you don't want to talk. Slobodan Jankovic, as state prosecutor, and district prosecutor Bozovic, were the instruments of politics of today's Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and the previous prime minister of the government in his permanent efforts to criminalise all that was the results of the first democratic government, Zoran Djindjic. During the process, over the last few years, in the last days of its illegal mandate, District Attorney Bozovic has been pressuring his deputies to accuse Democratic Party MP Aleksandr Vlahovic of misappropriating the law in the political process, for all that was the previous political prehistory of the Democratic Party's relationship with the Democratic Party of Serbia, in which the Democratic Party was guilty of changing Serbia, and the Democratic Party of Serbia is obliged to preserve the existing system of values established under the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. District Attorney Bozovic is making illegal pressures on his deputies. Two refused, the third under extreme pressure to charge Alexander Vlahovic illegally during the week. Who's responsible for Vladan Batic being in jail for two days? Who is responsible that Milan Obradovic spent three months in prison, illegally? Who is responsible for the murder of Serbian Prosecutor Milan Radovanovic? Has anyone filed an account for that? Has anyone been informed why this man was arrested? It's the state of our justice. Do we need to withdraw from that or do we have to face it? Let's all face it. I don't know of any MPs in the Assembly who didn't show even a declarative willingness to take responsibility for everything that follows his political action. To what extent are the individuals willing to do what they say? We can estimate this based on what we did until the moment we made that promise and based on their personal character, but we're all declared ready to take that responsibility. That is why I insist on the responsibilities of those who seek support from us, or those who expect us to establish something without asking what you have left behind. What did Attorney General Jankovic leave behind? What did District Attorney Bozovic leave? What leaves the Special Prosecutor to whom the mandate is due today? That's what we need to talk about. He'll make progress, by chance, but, if that promotion is deserved, why is it covered by a veil of secrets? Why doesn't anyone go out and say, "Yes, we stand behind this man, as a state, behind him?" We have created the institution of the Special Prosecutor and the Special Court, because it is the need of every democratic country. At this point, we want to say that this institution has been brought to the very bottom, because it is politically instrumentalised and the prosecutor is responsible for it. His intentions may have been the best, but the way he was achieving his intentions, the goals he was going towards, are quite the opposite of those to which that institution must move if it wants to correct the state of our society, if we are talking about all the processes that he started. Where are the convictions for these processes? Where are the results of that work? If we talk about the circumstances in which he worked, they were not an obstacle to that work. We were the biggest support. With our relationship with these institutions, we build, among other things, the right to condemn, our criticism of these institutions. It is impossible to discuss in the Committee on the Justice of the Republic of Parliament and not to get an answer to these simple questions. Who do the prosecutors account for? Retired, or your political boss? If conditions were met, what were they, after they were legally acquired two years ago? Just political, on what grounds? Is there another error? If we were forced to make that mistake in 2000, or 2001, we don't have to today. Is the Serbian judiciary divided into ours and theirs again? Did these political preconditions occur by obtaining one side of the leading coalition its prosecutor's office and the other half the Serbian prosecutor's office? If that's how it's done, tell us where there's room for an ordinary man? Where is this place for justice? Where's the law? Are these the elements that are the preconditions, the assumption of a normal, orderly country? We think someone should take responsibility for what happened. My opinion is that you, as minister of justice, owe so much to this House, not to us MPs, but to the institution. You fought for this institution, so you owe at least one promise -- that this is the last time we have discussed it in such a schizophrenic way, that we are asked to determine today what existed, which is a fact, for two years. What is the character of this high-level council of justice, which will be elected by the acting Serbian prosecutor? Whether it has full capacity, whether Jankovic, whose resignation now, i.e., will also have the right to vote in the high judiciary council. We're supposed to stop duty, aren't we? Where's the representative of the expert public? What's that... It's a high-level cartoon, not an institution we should respect. Based on what fact can we evaluate the work, if it's not our subjective facts, the ones we've come up with? Have we ever received a report, or should we familiarise ourselves through mob newspapers with Serbian justice or prosecution initiatives and ambitions? We must say this in a very clear way in this debate and this debate should be a turning point in Parliament's regard to justice. A new constitution has been passed. We pointed to the poor position of the Serbian judiciary, the fact that the new constitution threatens the rights and freedoms achieved, among other things, and the obligation in the previous period. It was then done by the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe Commission, whose members we are, the Council of Europe, whose sessions we take part in. No one's paying attention to that. Let's change that. Let's say -- the need of this society is for society to get a clear picture of anyone who defines and affects his destiny. Well, criminals are in prison, politicians are in elections, and people in their everyday lives are free of that waste and the pollution that is poisoning the whole country. What needs to be highlighted in all of this is so simple. The institutions of the judiciary were terribly abused during the period of the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica, and the fact that this is a government of continuity with this period is worrying us, because there are no assumptions for revitalising that judiciary, its affirmation, through the establishment of a fully depolitised system of clear criteria, which will lead us to that goal. What are we going to do with something like that, the fact that someone is going to be rewarded for being a party prosecutor and someone being accused of being a threat to that party? If we're talking about the results, and since Mr. Batic didn't talk about it, it's clear who he means when it comes to the tobacco mob. Our special prosecutor was photographed in a hug with Miroslav Miskovic, a person to be prosecuted for his participation in the "duvan affair". Then he says it was at some reception. Excuse me, let him find one of my paintings with those he arrested, expecting them to falsely charge me. Let him find one painting under any circumstances. That's a question for you, Minister. Ask the prosecutor a question, what were you doing there? What was he doing at a party rally? Not on one, not on ours, unless he arrests us, then come. What's he doing at the party prom? Why doesn't he say after that, I was wrong, but he explains that it wasn't a party promotion, it was a government promotion. Yes, a government promotion presenting 250 MPs from the list under regular number 5 under the slogan "Long live Serbia". It's dishonest, and it has to be sanctioned. If we don't say that in Parliament, where are we going to talk? That's what we're talking about here, because the words spoken for the congregation speaker have great weight. We need to get an answer to the question of what will be taken by the Serbian judiciary or you, as minister of justice, for the intravenousisation of the Serbian prosecutor's office and its subjugation to financial and political centres of power. If 30 people in prison have been in prison for 16 months, because by breaking the laws, against the law and against the law, they have acquired some property under the company of the bankruptcy mafia, then the question must be asked what the Special Prosecutor's Office is doing when it gets the information that the key problem on which the case is being created in the cabinet of Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister. What's going on here? If privatization of the C Market is the basis for the arrest of some people, their imprisonment in custody for 16 months, so where is the privatisation done? In Kostunica's office. In whose interest? Back in Miskovic's. Since we're not responding to that, then it happens to us that someone thinks they've been betrayed by everyone in this country, so they start threatening the Special Prosecutor's Office, and they start threatening their business competition. Under these threats, MP Vlahovic also becomes a victim. That's what needs to be cleared up. We can't keep quiet about that. That's not what we're gonna keep quiet about. As politicians, we have the right to have that kind of relationship, and if we have to pay the price for it, we pay it in the elections. But institutions must not lie, they must not turn away from their goal and path and institutions should not be the way Serbia is, because institutions exist to change that Serbia. And the Serbian prosecutor's office has touched its bottom. In Milosevic's time, we did not see those institutions as institutions. But today we are expected to respect them, to discuss them with respect, to give them our support, and we cannot do that because they are the antithesis of everything we insist on. So a few simple answers -- do the people whose termination of duty we need to determine deserve your thanks? We'll support it if they deserve it. Will you do something about the obvious abuses committed in the Serbian prosecutor's office, and from State Prosecutor Jankovic, and from District Attorney Bozovic, and from special prosecutor Radovanovic? Will the issue of political influence be raised so that individual processes can be channelled and distanced from those who are, in fact, at the heart of the Serbian problem, if it is about the lack of respect for the law and the threat of the rule of law, which is the current government? In the end, one simple question, where's the plan we need now? When will the election of a member of the duties of the Republic State Prosecutor be made? Is that gonna be today or tomorrow? What are the criteria for this choice? How will your ministry treat those unfinished business that you inherited, within which deadlines, because we are required to understand such a thing. In the end, one absolute guarantee. Regardless of the demeaning position in which the judiciary is located, at the difficult position of you as minister, given the circumstances in which you are and are working, in view of, above all, the fact that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, you will have the absolute support of the Liberal Democratic Party in your efforts to depolitise that institution and to cleanse our society of anyone who threatens stability in Serbia, who compromises it, who criminalises it and thus makes it a country in which there is no future for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4867	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4868	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in article 104 - violation of Parliament's dignity. Here's what this injury is all about. The previous speaker said that today we will conduct a schizophrenic debate here, and I, as an MP, really do not accept that in Parliament, in any way, by making arguments, such a debate is being held. The violation of the dignity of all of us here today also consists of those who in 2000 completely abandoned and ruined the idea of change, those who made a criminalised society, for whom we have all walked since 1996, today are calling us here to talk about how some other criminals are and how some others are guilty of ruining what they have ruined. I come from Valjev, where in 2001, at the KP home, in the principal's office, believe it or not, there was a picture of the then minister, today's MP, Mr Batic. I do not believe it was put there because Mr Batic is a beloved minister, but because it was a completely party and political story. In addition, when Kolubara poured out and flooded the KP home, do you think the state helped prisoners and detainees or did the Democratic Party of Serbia do so? Of course, a client. So whoever's talking about party interests, who here, at this same pay phone in the same session, was standing the judges of the District Court in Valjevo, and, on the same day, setting up the president of that court, can't talk about it. Hurts the dignity of all of us. If that's what the old people were running the judiciary, I wouldn't even comment on it. Politics shouldn't set up old people or young people, but quality people to do business. And whether they're old, young, middle-aged, whether they have blue eyes or green eyes, or whether their hair is short or long -- it's totally irrelevant. In one I am fully in agreement with what Mr Jovanovic said, we as politicians should advocate that in the right places, which are extremely important for this country, put up quality people, as he said, I would quote, because I liked "criminals are in prison, and judges and prosecutors are doing their job, so that citizens, ultimately, will be calm". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4869	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been talking here about a violation of the law, and here it is flagrantly breaking the law, in that it violates the provisions of Article 68(2), under which it cannot be extended to prosecutors. If the Assembly finds that Slobodan Jankovic's function ends today, he is extending the working century. But, of course, it is a party prosecutor, such as party prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic. Speaking of the period and the time when I was the minister of justice in the government of Zoran Djindjic, which Serbia will make out of mud, and events, day after day, confirm it unequivocally, at the time, since the fourth municipal court, the president of the Fourth Municipal Court, proposed by the DOS Judicial Committee, and not me as minister of justice, was a candidate proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, Djordje Mirkovic. The court, not prosecutors, decided to abolish detention of members of the Zemun clan, the court, not prosecutors, with the participation of Djord Mirkovic himself, as a member of the KV council, quickly, in one day, decided to abolish Dejan Milenkovic's detention. Now, after testifying, we know why and how. So much for party belongings. I don't know if there was a picture of the Justice Minister at the KP's office back in Valjev. I'm glad he did, but at the time there was no jail break, there was no collective injury, there were no murders and no suicides, there was no insurrection in prisons. That was before my ministry, at a time when there were three Justice Commissioners. It wasn't any of that. I am proud that the late prosecutor, Mr. Medic and Mr. Djordje Ostojic, were outsiders, not party prosecutors like Slobodan Jankovic and Slobodan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4871	Thank you. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Sarajevo in the 1980s, the anecdote circled that a Sarajevo judge had declared a citizen of Sarajevo guilty because Tito's death was commented on in a demented context, and it was in the light of that verdict that it was not nice to say that Comrade Tito had died, but that he was only temporarily prevented from doing his duty. About the same way the ruling majority in this congregation thinks. One game continues with numbers, with time counting, with dates, continues what we had when we discussed amendments to the Civil Service Act, a hiducous introduction of the agenda points into an extraordinary session continues. In the middle of the debate on the confirmation of an international convention, we get the material of the Justice and Administration Committee, and only some MPs, those who sit in the hall; those who weren't here, didn't get this material. I do not understand on what basis Minister Dusan Petrovic explained these proposals, when it is clear, according to the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Article 48(2), that the Committee on Justice and Administration formulates proposals for choices, i.e. the resolution of judicial officials. So, we should have been given an explanation by the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr Miroslav Petkovic, not by the minister of justice. But it's obvious why it's done. Minister Dusan Petrovic is a lawyer for his MPs, he knows that his MPs can't properly explain something this funny, so he went out to give us a lecture, forgetting that this is not the tribune of the DS municipal board, but a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here, about what that date game looks like. We have a decision by former Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic that the conditions for the termination of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor Slobodan Jankovic have been met, that Slobodan Jankovic informed him on 24 July 2006, namely that on 10 February 2006, he met the conditions for the exercise of his right to retirement. This comes to us today, July 23, 2007, so after a full year. I am now asking the Minister of Justice - with which date, Mr. Minister, Slobodan Jankovic and all of these persons listed in these decisions, in fact, has the duty ceased? I remind you that the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is not laid down when it comes to the time when the function ends for the individual holders of judicial functions. In accordance with Article 67(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office states that the Public Prosecutor's office, now keep an eye on the legal formulation, ceases, means that the prosecutor's office ends when the workday ends, and the prosecutor ends his working life or when he turns 65 or when he fulfils that other condition, which is that he has at least 40 years of insurance. Now one logical question is being asked. Has Slobodan Jankovic and all of these persons been suspended by the prosecutor's duty at the time of the law, that is, on the day they met the conditions prescribed by law, so one of these two conditions, or will the prosecutor's office cease today, when the National Assembly makes a decision about it? It is clear that the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office introduced this legal and chronological galatias, but you did it on purpose, because it does not suit you in the judiciary, it suits you with a game of dates, with numbers, that man does not know when someone started the function, and when it stopped. You are deluding the national representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine what kind of confusion Serbian citizens who are not legally educated will be in, how they will interpret the debate that is now being held. Do they know when the Republic Public Prosecutor was elected, do they know when he got the pension conditions, do they know when his job would stop, with the day of fulfillment of the terms or with the day when the National Assembly decided on it? It is clear that this material, ladies and gentlemen, has been prepared really quickly, that most MPs from the ruling coalition have not even read this material, and I doubt that this material was also read by the president of the National Assembly, because otherwise he could see the following, let's say, in the proposal for a decision signed by Miroslav Petkovic, which as regards the termination of the duties of public prosecutors Slavoljub Dimitrijevic, Zvonimir Stankovic, Blazenka Vesnic and Milovan Preradovic. It is said in the preamble to the proposal for this decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session in 2006", is now 2007. Also, look at this: "The motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors for five persons", I am not going to name them now, there is no need: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session in 2006". Next, here, we got, five minutes ago, at least I got five minutes ago, a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties for Inic-Drecun Milena and Bud Eva. Now watch out: "The motion for a decision to suspend the court's duty" seems to be that those who write these decisions do not know that there are seven downfalls in the Serbian language, beware that the dissent of this decision reads: "A judge's duty ceases on a personal request, namely 1) Inic-Drecun Milena, Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, 11 August 2007. Nowhere falls, no gender, no context, that a man who holds to the standard of Serbian language can understand, in fact, what this is all about. Furthermore, Serbia's Supreme Court, the Great personal council, was signed by Judge Milena Inic-Drecun, in Belgrade on 28 July 2007, and today it is July 23rd 2007, and is listed in office 28.06.2007, in the Serbian Supreme Court office. I don't think even top lawyers can understand. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is quite clear, here, I will not owe much of my time to my colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club, that the ruling coalition does not care about order in the judiciary, and in the end, Minister Petrovic himself said when he said that the ruling coalition would propose laws that would make the prosecution an independent body, and from the judiciary an independent institution. That means the D.A. is not an independent body at the moment, nor is our judiciary independent. Mr. Petrovic, today is 2007. You've been in power for seven years. We of the SRS ask you, what have you been doing for seven years, why haven't you implemented all those reforms you swore to? You serve once, literally, a political mantra, as if you were superstitious. Whenever you come across a problem, whenever you don't know something like that, you say, "It's in line with European standards, we strive for European integration." Show these decisions that you delivered to the MPs today, with this mess in dates, with a completely unclear fact whether someone retired two years ago or just today should retire, what is the legal status of the acts that these people have made, what about the people that these prosecutors have received in a working relationship, whether they have established a working relationship in a valid way, what about their salaries, etc. Mr Petrovic, show these decisions, which you have delivered today to the head of the OSCE Mission in Serbia, show the US ambassador, the British ambassador, to the representatives of the European Union. If they agree with this, if they say this is in line with European standards, then it is an honor, but we in the SRS believe that this has nothing to do with European standards, but with basic legal principles and we will not vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4873	I'll give you an explanation about the dates you've set. In addition to the document that you received, in which, in 2006, the fact was, in 2006, you received and corrected the document in which it stands in 2007. As for the document you received from the Supreme Court, the Grand Personal Council, signed by Judge Milena Inić-Drecun, it is a copy of the document she provided as a accompanying letter, in which we do not have the opportunity to change the date. The fact is that it stands on the date of 28.7.2007. So in what the Assembly gave, there was a mistake with the date - in 2006, you were given the correction in which it stands - in 2007. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my duty to warn you, and you work by your conscience, as DOS is used to. We can't discuss this agenda at all today. Namely, on the basis of Article 74. The D.A.'s Law, who's informing the National Assembly that they've obtained conditions to stop a prosecutor or a deputy prosecutor's office? Minister. You gave us a memo signed by a citizen named Zoran Stojkovic. Zoran Stojkovic informed the assembly a year ago, who chose him as minister, that the prosecutor had suspended his mandate. Zoran Stojkovic cannot communicate with this assembly's assembly as minister. Only Mr. Dusan Petrovic can do that. The Justice Committee was supposed to reject this memo, because there are no persons asking for the termination of the prosecutor's office to be established. A citizen cannot inform the National Assembly that due to certain conditions, a term of office or a judicial office or a public prosecutor’s office has ceased. Mr Petrovic, at the very least, should have stood here by Zoran Stojkovic. He informed us and let him defend it. You came here, you didn't even have mercy in front of the National Assembly to confirm what one of Zoran Stojkovic wrote. As some MPs have indicated to you that a pensioner is asking for the discharge of deputies, I am now warning the National Assembly, citizen Zoran Stojkovic is asking us to dismiss the Republic Public Prosecutor. We sit here, throw under the feet the electoral will of the citizens, throw the voters under the feet and work past the law. If you make this decision, we will address the Constitutional Court. Mr. Petrovic is already scratching his beard - there is no Constitutional Court. No one will judge whether this decision has been made in accordance with the Constitution. No, you pick a new republican prosecutor, past tense, new decision valid, old no one cares anymore. Do not underestimate our dignity, neither you, Mr Petrovic, nor you, MPs of the ruling majority. There are no conditions for this point. You can turn your head all you want. If Article 74. The law says the minister informs the National Assembly, the minister has not informed us. We don't know what was done. In addition, if that assembly appreciated its minister, it would have responded to Zoran Stojkovic's letter a year ago and would have determined the termination of the public prosecutor's office to the Republic Public Prosecutor. You say you didn't have a majority at the time. What do we care? Has the new government of Vojislav Kostunica withdrawn all acts that were in the process until the constitution of this government? Yes, she did. Then where did you get this material? I think the president of the National Assembly knows that the new government of Vojislav Kostunica has withdrawn all acts of the old government of Vojislav Kostunica, which were in the Assembly as material. Then where did you get this withdrawn material? We don't want any part of this. We will continue to discuss it, and we will not participate in the vote. You who dare to treat the National Assembly and citizens like this, think about what you can expect from the citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4875	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4876	Mr. Nikolic said one thing worth paying attention to, of course. No matter who, by name and last name, who was acting as minister, had the capacity, therefore, Zoran Stojkovic, under the Law of the Ministrys, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, had the right and the obligation to bring acts, among other things, and this initiative, which he directed to the Serbian Parliament, since at that time, undeniably, he was minister of justice. I think what he's done is perfectly valid and is the basis for this debate. If otherwise done, then any international contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, any international contract signed and committed by the country, should oblige all citizens, to be confirmed when the new government is established. It doesn't happen, as in this case, because there is a continuity of the state. The government's presidents change, the ministers change, the capacity changes when the Ministry's law changes, the constitution changes, but the acts taken by the state, either as a collective or as an in-house body, of course, remain. As for the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to withdraw all draft laws from the procedure, the decision is of political character and represents the government's position. I can tell you that it was the government's unique position and the government's conclusion was made. Therefore, it is not about automation and it is not about the fact that there is a constitutional obligation to do so, but that the Government has decided that anyone who is competent to review legislative proposals, that all that it considers is not necessary to correct, change and supplement, return in the form it is in this assembly procedure. But it's a political decision, not a decision based on a legal obligation stemming from the Constitution and the Government Act and the Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4877	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4878	All this sounds nice, but, Mr Petrovic, in 2001, DOS annulled some decisions by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the previous assembly. You've put everything under suspicion, even the decisions of the National Assembly, here's Bosko Ristić, and they've been referring to the holders of judicial functions. You have annulled the Decision on the termination of the term of office of Slobodan Vučetić, Leposavi Karamarkovic, Vidi Petrovic-Škero, so that I can no longer remember. You said there was no decision of the National Assembly of the previous convocation, there never was. That's how you performed. You're wrong here. He had the capacity in front of the National Assembly who chose him. Then why did we choose you, Mr. Petrovich? I suppose you'd like to speak to us here, to write "I, as Minister of Justice, find that the mandate or the public prosecutor's office has stopped and that's the one." A national congregation was informed of this, one meeting did not respond because it did not have a majority, resulting in an election. The election took place and because some committees no longer functioned, the ruling majority did not have a majority on these committees. You left the Assembly, did not participate in the work of the committee, nor in the work of the National Assembly session, led to confusion, which resulted in new parliamentary elections. Don't tell me now that this National Assembly meeting is valid because a year ago, that National Assembly meeting was informed by Zoran Stojkovic that someone had suspended their mandate. No, this congregation doesn't make a commitment. She has to make a new decision. In order for this National Assembly to make a decision of this kind, it must have a letter from the minister. For this national assembly, Minister Dusan Petrovic is. It's not the Dusan Petrovic I know, this one's soft, shaped, jumped, nice coming out here, so he acts like nothing's happened in these seven years and his new coalition partners haven't made all this mess. Don't take them out, Mr. Petrovich, it's not appropriate for you. Imagine, at the time of your term of office, a ceasefire of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and you didn't ask for it. Explain to me, how is that possible? Who is it for you, by law, Minister? Who is this minister of justice for you? This is where you were elected. You took an oath. Don't convince us. If any decision from your previous term was wrong, come on now, you'll have our majority, suggest now for everything that we've attacked the DSS to do illegally, to undo the decisions of that assembly. You asked for it, come on, now we have that majority. Then we didn't, now we do. Let's call off all those illegal and unconstitutional decisions you've been running for...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4879	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4880	... from the back row for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4881	Thank you. Milizav Petronijevic, for the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I appeal to Article 226 requesting notice of importance for the further continuation of this session. I don't know who I'm looking for him from. Is this the authorized proponent Miroslav Petkovic or Minister Dusan Petrovic? Anyway, I'm asking you to ask them for a notice, and it's about the next one. We have here a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties on a personal request. When a person submits a request in person, he shall specify the date on which that function should cease. We've got two dates here, so now I'm asking, what's going on? Namely, a notice from the Personal Council, President Sonja Brkic, whether that was the President of the Supreme Court during the DOS, informs that Judge Milena Ilic-Drecun has filed a motion for resolution, one - 28. 07, it's probably a mistake - 28. 06, if she had stopped working on August 11th this year, she would have used her vacation until then. Then, beyond that, another announcement, which Sonja Brkic also tells us -- if the National Assembly is to meet before determining the time of the use of the annual holidays, the judge's post should stop on 20 September 2007. What date is being taken here? Is August 11th, the first request, or September 20th, therefore, the correction of the personal request? She corrected her own request and forced it to be September 20th. Of course, the promoter here suggested that it be August 11th, so he didn't respect this amendment. This follows the need for a second notification. Does this have anything to do with the explanation that Judge Milena Ilic-Drecun has made in correcting her request? I quote: "I have submitted this request in the course of an increase in the case of KZ3 OK 1/06, and before the vote, due to the extreme views of most members of the council, it is not important that there is a significant contradiction in the decisive facts between what is stated in the reasons of the second-degree ruling, on the contents of the documents and of those documents themselves, although these are absolutely essential infringements of the provisions of criminal proceedings and that the judgment still does not have to be abolished. In addition, there are other absolutely significant infringements of the provisions of criminal proceedings, the criminal law has been violated, and the fact is not true, nor fully established, what I pointed out in my report on the state of affairs and the files. "
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4883	You're out of time, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4884	Does this have anything to do with disrespecting her personal request when it's resolved?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4885	Thank you very much. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4886	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there's a misunderstanding here in the middle that can be eliminated, and that's why I'm talking to Mr. Dusan Petrovic, given his democratic definitions and his commitment to respect the law and legal order. Mr. Minister, I think all we need to do is find a solution and all that's suggested in the decision to make up, but to realize that people who have completed the working century have stopped working through the day of completion of the working century. For your information, in the material that has been sent today to the members of the Justice Committee, Slobodan Jankovic himself, watch this curiosity, gentlemen, look at this, sending a memo, this is his letter to the National Assembly since 27 February 2006: ''On the basis of Article 74(1). The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, we would like to inform you that Crnjanski Mladen, the municipality's public prosecutor in Kula, has completed his working life, which gave rise to conditions for his duties as municipal public prosecutor in Kula, so I would therefore suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discharge the duties of municipal public prosecutor in Kula, Crnjanski Mladen, as of 1 November 2005. ''So, on 27 February 2006, Slobodan Jankovic asked the Assembly to resolve the former municipal prosecutor in Kula on the day of his working century, 1 November 2005. He does that when it comes to other prosecutors, but not when it comes to him. That's immoral. It is the immorality of a retired man, who is against the law, I do not know by whose will, by the will of the party majority of the ruling coalition in the previous and in this assembly of Parliament, obviously, at the place of the Republic Public Prosecutor. A few more details. Although his working life, due to his age of 65 years, ended on 10 December 2005, and because of his 40 years of employment - 6 February 2006, Slobodan Jankovic informs the Ministry of Justice, your predecessor, Minister Stojkovic, on 24 July 2006. So, seven or eight months from the time it was legal to end the working century. That, Mr. Minister, is the highlight of immorality. Such a man was a state prosecutor, and from that high office, in the principle of hierarchy and subordination, he decided everything. Everything he's done, you know it well, but because of party interests and the ruling coalition, you won't accept it, politically, but you have to agree with me, as a lawyer, a lawyer, a minister of justice, that it is so and that it can't be otherwise. So we have a paradox for the people who applied to say, "I'm running out of work that day and that day." They inform the authorities about this, and after 30 days, the work relationship ends. And whoever hides and hides it, that we no longer glorifise the previous justice minister, had the birth certificate of all prosecutors, and regardless of what he lied to, or said seven-eight months later, Slobodan Jankovic informed him that his working century had expired a year ago, he failed to do so in time and informs the Assembly in a previous meeting on July 26th 2006. It is not your finding, God forbid it is, but we could, as a precedent, start applying it to Parliament's work -- that those proposals addressed to the Assembly in the previous assembly are still in force now. Here, I will immediately insist on one thing and ask the President of the Assembly to put it on the agenda. A little over a year ago, we collected over 15,000 signatures under the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative for Amendment to the Law on Public Information, to abolish the television subscription. That, then, is still true, according to your interpretation. I ask the President of Parliament, Mr. Dulic, to take this into account and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4887	I'll tell him, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4888	I'm sorry. Like this, you see it, you don't see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4889	It's flying shifts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4890	And so is the Republic Public Prosecutor. So, if this precedent is applied, I immediately ask that it be put on the agenda, noting that it is not even a proposal, a request or initiative of a previous member of the government, but more than 15,000 citizens, whose will should be respected. I repeat, please put this on the agenda. So, since you, since you, I don't know what reason you came forward as some kind of proposing, I'm asking all of this to just comply with the law. Because the law is clear. You can't extend the working century. And for these people, first of all, Slobodan Jankovic, it's known exactly when they ran out of time. One more thing. The problem is that you should elect a special prosecutor for organized crime. I must admit that when it comes to the Special Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the Special Court and the Prosecutor's Office, I speak to a simplified dictionary, for war crimes, I have some kind of emotional relationship with these institutions, because, at the time, I was one of the creators of these institutions, which are, by the way, the best of what is in Serbia's judiciary today, with the exception of the Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime, who I have already said is leading selective proceedings against the ruling coalition, the former and the present, of one, and, on the other hand, by abulsing or amnesty of the previous or current ruling coalition. Slobodan Radovanovic, in this I have personally regained consciousness, has not launched an investigation into the criminal charges I filed against Mladjan Dinkic -- for the National Savings Bank, for the Cypriot money; against Aleksandr Tijanic -- for a package of "Universal" films that has caused enormous damage to RTS, for abuses of PGP privatisation. He hasn't launched a series of procedures I insist on. At the request of the former Justice Minister, I point out party membership and the announced case against me, I find it embarrassing to say, he asks the UBPOK to arrest me, not knowing that there is a Constitutional Court decision, or a provisional measure, which, at the time, to which the case was concerned, all who were in custody for more than 48 hours were released from custody. This unequivocally shows the blind performance of Slobodan Radovanovic's party tasks by his party colleagues. This, by the way, is shown in a plastic way in his presence to promote the People's Coalition on December 4th of last year. So, if it's not like this, Mr. Minister, as I'm saying, why did you have to realize today that the function of Free Jankovic ends, if he can still be in that position? We're the only country where the U.S. Attorney is retired for almost two years. I said that, God forbid, he died, the deceased would be a state prosecutor. If, God forbid, he'd gone to jail, which should have been a long time ago, a prisoner would have been a Serbian state prosecutor and then, why does he have to do it today? Let the party continue, so let the pensioner, the deceased or the prisoner choose the Special Prosecutor for organized crime. It is a picture and an opportunity and a prosecutor's organisation and state of justice in Serbia today. I won't be long anymore. My appeal, once again, is - to just apply the law and to realize that all these people stop being sued or judged on the day of the completion of the working century. It's the only misunderstanding between us. If what Slobodan Jankovic did was illegal, it would be a big problem, which one day, if Serbia, which is known and the only country that claims to be a state, but it is not yet, because it is a state trying, because there is no Constitutional Court, therefore, when that constitutional court is there, then it will obviously have to be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4891	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric came to the floor, and let the People's Messenger Slavko Jerkovic be prepared. I apologize for the preparation of MP Vesna Nikolic-Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spent a lot of time trying to reach the next conclusion, as Minister Petrovic said - there were no conditions for the National Assembly to have what is on the agenda today. Very simple, based on Article 162. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, when it comes to the election and resolution of judges and public prosecutors, can be put on the agenda during the session. Then I began to think, given that Zorka Petrovic was to be resolved from the seat of the municipal court in Guca on 3 February 2005, so it was July 23, 2005, and today July 23, 2006, and I made the only possible conclusion - in order for this to be discussed, the temperature outside should be over 40%. I couldn't find another explanation. The Serbian Radical Party, in continuity, takes care of the choice and resolution of judicial and prosecutorial officials and we have always taken active participation when it comes to this. We continue to warn that a negative selection has been carried out in the choice of judicial authorities since 2000. I don't know if the current justice minister will be that capacity, as he likes to say, to fix, to affect the improvement of the situation in the judiciary, because we have courts, municipal courts, which have the president of the court and only one other judge. If we keep in mind that in one place, when it comes to selecting the president of the district court, he personally influenced that he would not be elected within two years, I'm not sure he would make a contribution to resolve the problem in a small place, such as Krupanj, where, in total, there are two judges. However, I think that this will be more advanced than some previous ministers, because for the first time you are introducing a new practice -- that the one whose prosecutor's office has expired, and by completing the working century, only with such a condition can he appoint those others, who, too, have long ended their working lives, but maybe it's better than asking, as some of your predecessors have asked, to impose a death penalty for at least 15 minutes, and that's good. Some have talked about who will answer, I don't know who did it, but I know that someone in his ministerial practice had it, someone here said that he was a citizen at the time, and now an MP (I appreciate every citizen of Serbia, no matter what he was before and what he was going to be after), was arrested for 24 hours. And what about the 12,000 people who were arrested in Sabela action and a very small number were processed, and for the rest, there's no telling what would happen?- I'm sorry. What are we gonna do about it and that idea? Such behaviour in this Serbia was most often advocated and implemented by just those who are criticising certain things today. The Office of the Justice Centre of Serbia opened in Novi Sad on 18 May 2007, which is scheduled to train personnel, judges and prosecutors from the territory of Vojvodina. Why is it that only Vojvodina, if there is a need for education, I mean the holders of judicial functions, why isn't that for all of Serbia? What will be our situation, Minister, with new costumes, and it has been advocated that this should be handled in our courts since September 1st, even say that the tender expired on January 3rd? You weren't in the process, but they say it's just a formal question. It reminds me little of what is happening in The Hague tribunal, one inquisition, that Serbian citizens are more afraid of the appearance of our judges. You don't have to do that. We in the SRS believe that the largest number of judges and prosecutors perform their duties correctly and professionally. So today some citizens of Serbia, I have to explain to them, may be mistaken to have a resolution of some judges and prosecutors who are no longer worthy to perform that function. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Today, the National Assembly is only discussing the resolution of those judges and prosecutors who have completed their working hours, so they have obtained conditions for retirement and those who for personal reasons have submitted a request for resolution. Through these decisions, we have a total of 64 judges who need to be resolved, therefore, in the municipal and districtal areas, and it seems to me that there are none from the Supreme Court, of which 26 - due to the completed working age and 38 - on a personal request. It is a large number at once, when such a decision is to be made, when we know that we have a total in Serbia between 2000 and 2,300 judges, so in one day we need to make a decision on the resolution of so many judges, which is about 5%. Almost no name on this list deserves a special comment. Perhaps only in the context of the need to comment could Judge Milena Ilic Drecun be inserted, because of what is the real reason for her resignation as Serbian Supreme Court judge. It is seen here that the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Petrovic Škero, also wanted to defuse her reasons for resigning as Supreme Court judge. In any case, Slobodan Jankovic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, should point out and mention that name in particular, because if someone filled the working century on December 10th 2005 and remained, and the minister suggests that it be resolved with today's day, not as Mr Batic suggested - on December 10th 2005, the issue of morality is raised. Then no wonder he did everything he did. He wasn't a shopkeeper, so it took a little morale. We have much more honest people, who do the most common jobs, we have agricultural producers, than was Slobodan Jankovic, if he could keep his mouth shut for almost two years and perform the function of the Republic Public Prosecutor. He may have done so because of the salary he had or because of the need for political parties to hold him to this day in that place, so that all the decisions he had made, or actions he had done, could be better presented to the people. Mr. Minister, you and the government in which you participate are a great disappointment to the citizens of Serbia, and hope and the future for Serbian citizens will be the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4893	The word has a folk MP, Mrs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, and let the MP Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4894	Minister, just one question, I have an inspiration for you. I wanted to ask you, are you ashamed of this kind of discussion? Are you ashamed of these professional people, who, in this way, professionally explained to you what you've done so far, you and your government? You are the minister of justice, and none of what has been done so far in this National Assembly is according to the Constitution and the constitutional law. I blame you not me, but the people. That's one thing. Secondly, in front of this House, why are you making one of these decisions that we need to confirm? I am ashamed, as a Serbian radical, because it will be remembered in history and the people will tell us tomorrow, because someone looked like this, and someone who will understand less, someone more -- well, you Serbian radicals have participated in such an illegal action. We're not going to be a part of this, but we need to publicly say that this is wrong. Third, do you know how to run this country or don't you know? You wanted to die that night or make a government. We let you and you made a government. You don't know how to do this. Your colleague, Minister Sutanovac, burned half of Serbia, thousands of hectares of forest burns, and he doesn't know what it is. I have to say, "The village burns and the grandmother combs." You don't know how to run this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4895	The word is by MP Petar Jojic, I apologize, Natasa Jovanovic, for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4896	Thank you, Mr. Mrkonjic, you are a man who, in accordance with his charm and way to relax the atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, presides at a time when there are no MPs from the ruling coalition. It's your choice and your right. In the end, you are, no offense, the oldest vice president, even though you show sometimes, the energy you have, to overcome your younger colleagues. You know that, from the very beginning, neither General Delic nor I, we do not want to take on that role that you have now, precisely because it is impossible to stop all these insults and all this hatred that comes from the DS. If a woman who is a graduate lawyer, from the Royals, the MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, who is the mother of three children, who is the most serious, as a real representative of the people and as a lawyer, points out that all mistakes were made in calling the session and the shame and that in this way the judge's function ceases to be for people who have long had to retire, and if you don't hear, and I don't blame you, because I know that you didn't hear at the moment what one of the DS MPs is, but the famous "employment" and the image and opportunity of DS have thrown out to your mother three children, then it's a problem for you, Mr. President and Vine DS, and for all of you, who, too, fathers and mothers, some of you also have grandchildren, which you listen to such vomit and such abominations, which your colleague has spoken to Ms. Nikolic's speech. If you think I'm from the post of vice president and as the MP to keep my mouth shut about the fact that you're rude, that you don't have an elementary culture, that you don't want... Ooh, well, grab your head, buddy, you're the head of the non-culture, you're the one that's hesitating through empty paper. It's really amazing. We've been trying for years, at least you know, that's what the president of our party has always taught us, that never, ever, ever since the first days, ever since the start of the multi-party with us in benches, that we never have any hatred for political insolence. That's what Mr. Petrovic knows. He also knows fellow Gavrilovic and others from the opposite camp, i.e. the ruling, now, the Democratic Party. But then pass on a little more experience and knowledge, if at least you have it, to your younger colleagues and those who are the essences of your policy, both in the media and in every place. If you want to embarrass yourself in such a way, go ahead, but do not insult the honor and dignity of a Serbian woman, I repeat again, mother and wife, who, using her right as a MP, has said nicely that you will remain for this, and for all that you have done. I believe that you will continue until the end of your reign, we only hope, and we and the citizens of Serbia, that it will not be a long century, that you do it in such an unfair way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4897	Thank you, Natasha. I ask the People's MPs to be gentlemen and respect our lovely colleagues, our ladies. Here you go, sir. You wanted to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4898	Dear Members of the People, the employees of the judiciary know best what the situation in Serbia's judiciary is, but we who have some points of contact with the judiciary, first of all, talk about myself, as a lawyer, know that the situation in the judiciary, in the courts and the prosecution is very bad, perhaps, never worse. The question arises whether they are very bad, therefore, guilty of these people working in the judiciary, i.e. judges and prosecutors. Of course not. It is a failure by the government of the Republic of Serbia and this DOS majority, which is responsible for the poor situation in the judiciary, for at least two reasons. You don't let them work by law, meddling in the work of the judicial authorities. Secondly, you have not provided financial conditions for their independent work, although the largest number of judges and prosecutors are honestly and honestly, committed and responsiblely doing their job. It has been six months since the constitution of this congregation, and this point should have been on the agenda in this high house long ago. The prosecutor's office of Attorney General Slobodan Jankovic, Mr. Minister, has long ceased, and you well know it, it ended on 10.12.2005, when he, by law enforcement, therefore, by official duty, ex officio, had to be retired, when he met one of the conditions, which is 65 years of life. So it doesn't take that cumulative condition to be 65 years old and 40 years old, but it takes 65 years to live. Furthermore, I point out the paradox that the pensioner, the Serbian state prosecutor, is also proposing that the prosecutor's office be terminated to the lower prosecutors. Know that all decisions, conclusions, proposals made by the State Prosecutor during this period, in particular indicate that emergency legal remedies, the Law on the Protection of Legality and others, acts without fact and cannot have a binding relationship, nor binding legal force for anyone. You know that well, Mr. Minister. So all the verdicts made under these legal remedies are illegal, so what the minister said here has nothing to do with the law, because he knows well that the prosecutor stopped working, or prosecutorial function, a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4899	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. People's MP Petar Jojic came to the floor. Let the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4900	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, current, previous and current governments have pledged to reform the judiciary since 5 October, legislative reform. When you look at the complete situation now, what is the situation in the judiciary and the prosecution, and what is the situation in relation to our legislation, we can freely say that it is unsatisfactory and worse than it was before 5 October. Although 267 laws have been passed, the problem is that they are not good laws and that they cannot be applied in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, if MPs, first of all, a citizen, would like to address, according to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court, he does not have that possibility. We don't have the opportunity to address the Constitutional Court. I ask Mr. Minister and President of the Assembly to give me an answer as to how many there are in the Constitutional Court, which formally exists, the judge. Next, how many cases have the citizens and other institutions addressed regarding the request for protection of legality and on any other basis? How many cases, by age, did the judge receive as a reference? How many unsolved items per year? On the other hand, I must draw attention to the fact that, we have recently discussed, in Article 5, Article 2, the Constitution defined that, in the end of the second regular session, a new constitutional court should be elected by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution has regulated this. Since we do not have a Constitutional Court, the citizens of our country have neither formal, nor legal, nor constitutional opportunities to seek the protection of their rights. So much for the adoption of a number of acts and when we say in Serbia whether something is under the Constitution or not. How can we tell someone tomorrow whether he is right, when there is no institution that needs to give him an answer and confirm whether his request for an assessment of the constitutionality of a legal, individual legal act, especially because I draw particular attention to the individual legal acts that citizens address to the Constitutional Court, established. You'll see a catastrophic situation, in fact, how many cases have been pending, and by the years -- when the case was first brought to the Constitutional Court. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Serbia finally has a Constitutional Court and that this problem be approached as soon as possible, not that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is engaged in some secondary legal acts, which do not even have legal power, protocols, conventions, etc. Therefore, this state must, under emergency, have a Constitutional Court. Otherwise, this country is ruled by lawlessness. How can we now submit any case that has been discussed today, which was spoken of by the MPs of the SRS, was it all according to the Constitution? There's no one to assess whether it's by the Constitution or not. We're not an unconstitutional monarchy. This is a state, and we from the SRS are pushing to actually go to the rule of law that needs to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to legislative reform, we have received donations, large material resources have been allocated to produce legal projects. I ask the following question and, at the same time, Mr. President, I am asking for an answer -- how many monetary, foreign foreign exchange funds were given as donations on behalf of the reform of our legislation? Secondly, as part of the issue, who was in the task force for the individual design of what legal project? How many of those members were there and how much was paid to those members? How many such legal projects were suspended and did not come before the National Assembly, and the state cost much? According to some of my findings, between four and five million euros were given to these projects without these projects coming before the National Assembly and not being adopted, which means that some people were paid to work on legal projects without their project proposals being adopted by the government, or saw daylight in front of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the judiciary, I'm asking the next question and I'm asking you to give me an answer. It is nepotism in the Serbian judiciary. How many judicial officials in Serbia, whether judicial or judicial, who, from their home, have lawyers from the first succession order, because you have a situation in Serbia, in the individual seats of the judicial authorities, that judges or prosecutors, or county or municipal, are sitting in that same court and in that same prosecution are members of the family, and lawyers represent before that court a certain citizen, whether in criminal matter, or in civil matter. You will see that there are a lot of irregularities and this encourages corruption in the judiciary, and judicial corruption has also been recognised by the judicial authorities, both the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court. It is absolutely unacceptable not to let this come under Parliament's control. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the selection of judges and judges, the president of courts and judges individually, along with prosecutors and deputies, if we had a re-election of judges for eight years, would be a second state of justice. But we have adopted a new constitution. We now have such a situation to elect judges in Parliament, probationary work on three years of beginners, and then to choose judges and prosecutors for life. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the state's fault, the government's guilty, it's the Ministry of Justice's fault. This is why they are guilty: because, gentlemen of the government, you do not go out with a project on the disciplinary responsibility of judges and prosecutors, as it exists in other countries of the European community, so if someone does not act by law, they will answer, disciplinaryly, for indiscipline, for violations of the law and overruns, if it works ineffectively and indiscriminately. So, I think it's high time to pass a law on the disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors and judges, because it will help bring order to the judiciary. Imagine, I had a case, it was in Nis, 1999 or 2000, the President of the Court - son-in-law, lawyer, daughter-in-law, or, let's say, in one municipality we had this case, when we visited courts: the President of the Court - husband, husband-in-law - judge, sister-in-law - president of the body for violations, and father-in-law, in one municipality, in a town that has 7,000 inhabitants. It's a private company. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't get away from it, there's a subjective and birth factor present, you can't rule it out. Such cases should therefore be prevented in the selection of people and nepotism prevented. This has recently been the case, and therefore we think that order should be in the judiciary, because in the judiciary for the sake of most professional and good people, and people whose decisions are not changed or abolished, in any case, need to make progress. How did Rade Terzic become district attorney? The man who was born in 1964 first worked as an expert associate at the First Municipal Prosecutor's Office, then appointed as deputy municipal public prosecutor. Imagine, this man, in 2001, being appointed district attorney. He wasn't even a municipal prosecutor, he wasn't even a deputy district attorney, under that criterion, a man has no experience, but he came along the party line. There's a problem. Imagine now who he was stretching, since he lacked nine months' work experience, he was supposed to be a Republic Public Prosecutor. What about these people who are both district attorneys and deputy district attorneys, i.e. municipal prosecutors, and in Serbia you can choose honest, fair, hardworking, working people to come to the post, according to the criteria of expertise and work experience. There, you can see how a party line can also be found in the judiciary for a certain high judicial function! It is now pummeled on those who have proposed Radet Terzic to be in the post as district attorney. Ladies and gentlemen, the C-section in the judiciary has to be done. Without it, there's no order in the state. There's no one left to talk to. The lawsuits are being filed for 15, 20, and even 25 years. Now look at the statistics. The Supreme Court Supervisory Board, so he has to do his job, he has to go through all the courts, he has to see how many judges we have in which municipal and what district court, he's got to see how many cases he's owed back ten years, how many cases he's solved, and, secondly, how he handled his cases, by appeal, second-degree court, whether he's county court, whether he's Supreme Court. He needs to see how many modified decisions he made, which means he was unprofessional. How many of his convictions were lifted and how many confirmed. These are the criteria, these are the criteria, so we can have a judge today that you can go out with, and we're all citizens and we're people, we can meet in court. Every citizen should enjoy legal protection, protection of his freedoms and his rights. Repeat, C-section in the judiciary. There's a rule of law, there's a rule of law - in the judiciary. To cleanse the judiciary and that this Serbia has justice, and that citizens are able to address the honorable institution, which is concerned about the protection of freedom and the rights of citizens, and to exercise their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4901	Thank you to the MP, Peter Jojic. I ask the People's MP, Bozidar Delic, vice president of the Assembly, to take his word. Have Mr. Zoran Krasic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4902	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am addressing the Assembly after I received a request from the Association of Retired Generals and Admirals and the Association of Harmful Military and Civil Persons of Serbia, titled "Defense". They wrote, based on Article 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, one petition. I'm going to say something, and I'm going to try to quote something. The provisions of Article 145. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed: "The judicial decisions are based on the Constitution, the law, the approved international contract and the regulation adopted under the law. He said to Aristotle once, "To go to the judge means to go to justice." Mr. Minister, is that true of Serbia? From what I'm about to bring out later, you'll see that only in Serbia does not apply. One of Serbia's Supreme Court judges wrote on one occasion: "Law or politics, politics or law. Let's envy politics, because if we let the right one go, it'll be both successful and democratic. Otherwise, abandoning the primates of politics in relation to law, and law and politics are no longer the right or the politics. Then there is no rule of law and no democracy." This is today's situation in Serbia. I quote: "This petition advocates that judicial decisions are made on the basis of the Constitution and the law, and not on the basis of individual views and judgments of the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, whose policy is more important than law and which, in our opinion, do everything to insult both justice and justice." In the case of a Member State of the The Law on Judges states: "Before entering office, judges are obliged to take an oath before the president of the National Assembly. ''The oath reads--I swear by my honor that I will do my duty faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, by my best knowledge and skill, and serve only truth and justice. These retired members of the army, whether officers, officers, civilians, when they come to court, and there have already been thousands of cases, when they are asked to return to them, are told to destroy the state, while at the same time they are obliged to pay high court fees. On that basis, their money was put back in the state register. As far as the state is concerned, this particular category of people is the most damaged because they defended this country with their lives. In addition, they lost their property, no apartments, and no basic means to live. The text of the petition cited the recognition of a defence minister that the money that was to be paid for their salaries was financed by the Homeland Security Zone towards Kosovo and Metohija. Is that saying something? I must quote this association's proposal: "We propose that the Serbian Parliament pass a law of lex specialis, to establish a total debt to us, to open a special account with the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the total amount of money to be paid into account, to raise factories on that part of our territory, so that the Serbian and non-Albanian populations there can be economically maintained. Then, by way of out-of-court alignment, we would give up our money." Gentlemen, I once said this was a very large and significant asset. They cross a billion euros. They say, "We are speaking to you," he says to the Assembly, "in the hope that you will help us achieve the goals of judging all judges according to the law, not according to the emperor's will." It seems to us that Judges Predrag Trifunovic and Slobodan Drazic are judging by the will of the emperor, if we can consider the emperor as one of the politicians who is public in the media, only a year ago, said - let the military faces sue us, nothing will happen." Gentlemen, you who seek Europe should know that 70,000 claims are on this issue and another 46,000 claims by retired military personnel who were retired before 1 August 2004. In our view, contrary to the fact that, contrary to the Law on Bonds, the Law on Labour, the Law on the Military, the Law on Budgets and the contrary to the Regulation on salaries and other monetary incomes of a person at the service in Vojsca, it has been done that since 2000, and to this day, military persons receive only one third of the legally foreseen salary height. I quote, "Why don't we have the right to exercise our right and the right to a fair trial? "What was new to me, too, until I got this petition, is this. On the basis of Art. Items 1 and 137. The Military Act and according to the federal government's decision, based on that coefficient, it's from three to five average earnings for professional military personnel and 2.1 for civilian military personnel. For all years, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2004 and 2005, the military budget provided enough money for professional members to have salaries belonging to them under the law. However, the money that the Assembly, the assembly, established by the Budget Law, according to the defendant's recognition, is the Ministry of Defence and State, was paid to a special appraisal. Someone spent it, according to one of the defence ministers, unintendedly. Now I'm going to give you just a few solutions from the federal government. These are solutions from 5.04.2001, 16.08.2001, 8.11.2001, and 30.11.2001. With these solutions, the funds provided for the military were transferred to other items, so only in 2001 from the military budget, non-intentional, was taken 9714,000 dinars. How then, gentlemen, you can talk about the salaries of military personnel, because what was done in 2001 was reflected later all year, well, here it is by 2007. The defence minister points out that such a salary policy in the Yugoslav Army, particularly over the past two years, has not only led professional members of the Yugoslav Army into an uninvited material position, but also their salaries are significantly lagging behind the real growth of wages in society. While salaries in the economy were up 56.9% at the time, only 17% were increased in the military, and that was also written by Defence Minister Boris Tadic at the time. In view of the above, the Court concludes that the funds provided for the salaries of employees in the military have been rerouted and spent for other purposes and that there has been no legal basis for this, and that this is from the impact on the correct determination of the value of the point, i.e. the coefficient. With all this in mind, then you understand, gentlemen, why we haven't had a final account since 2000. When the budget was debated, I told you that it doesn't matter how much money you give them with the budget and what the budget is, but how much money you're really going to grant them over the year. Judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which I have already mentioned earlier, Predrag Trifunović and Slobodan Dražić, with their councils, as opposed to other judges of the same court, in order to tell us that we do not have the right, or that we do not know our right, alter the first-degree and second-degree judgments that have been passed by our claim, with an explanation that prosecutors do not have the right to distinguish the salary sought by the prosecution, because it has been regularly paid to them and that courts of general jurisdiction cannot question the legality of administrative acts. There are many lawyers among you, gentlemen, and such an explanation, for the reasons mentioned and those who follow, is an insult to common sense, and an insult is also for law. Why did Serbia's Supreme Court Judge Predrag Trifunovic, contrary to the party's principle of equality, previously negotiate with representatives of the defendant, contrary to the position of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the contrary facts, and in exchange for the the thesis made by decisions that, in our opinion, are contrary to the law and the Constitution? Why did the Supreme Court of Serbia judge Slobodan Drazic, in the case of the review of prosecutors Branislav Milosavljevic and Tinko Stoiljkovic from Ćupri, not know, and he had to know that these prosecutors, according to the same audit, submitted a request for his exemption, so he did not act as judge of such a significant judicial institution? Although he learned of the exemption, he did not comply with the provisions of Article 71. The law on litigation and did not immediately terminate any work on the case, but, contrary to all the rules and cited legal provisions, submitted it as an unfounded revision since 28 December 2006. The damage is, by legal definition, the reduction of someone's assets or assets, or the prevention of its increase. In particular, the salary money was provided in the Budget Law. It was enough and instead of being paid through wages, someone, contrary to the law, accidentally spent it. Then it's a shame to make up for these faces. Only, in the end, will I say, Judges Predrag Trifunovic, Slobodan Dražić and their higher statements contradict the earlier views of the same court and the same judges. I'll set an example. Serbia's Supreme Court resolution of 1004 since 2001, as of 29 November, expressed the following view: "The dispute over the military payout suit is a property dispute for which the municipal court is really in charge." In light of the solution, it is said that salary rights have been resolved in the administrative process. The D.A.'s only asking for a court of law to oblige the defendant to pay him off. So, quite the same larger Supreme Court of Serbia, in Decision 866 of 15 November 2006, abolishing the low-level decisions of courts and alleged reasons, and prosecutors would say that the court's position, but on the other hand, determines that the level of wages, or pensions, and the assessment of the legality of administrative acts which determine and correctness of the billing of wages and pensions, does not exclude the jurisdiction of the ordinary court to act in a lawsuit to compensate for the illegal and irregular work of the state authority. A number of these people have already reached court in Strasbourg. Since it is a direct violation of the law, what happened here will also happen when, between 2000 and 2002, several hundred or more thousands of people were fired from banks in Serbia. Now these illegal solutions have found their legal epilogue. You could have read these days that it would cost the state of Serbia three billion dinars. I warned the finance minister, now I warn the minister of justice, this will cost Serbia more than a billion euros. Gentlemen, your judges, the council of judges, understand and seek to act according to the law. After the petition, the group of Serbian citizens plans and informs the Serbian Parliament that they will go to the streets. Since it is the people who have dedicated their entire lives to the defence of the state, whether it was federal, whether it was the SRJ, or today the state of Serbia, does not matter. The ultimate means they'll apply is going out on the streets. The government and you, gentlemen ministers, should do everything you can to make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4903	Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the words, and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic has to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4904	Mr. Grouchy, let me help you with your Rules of Procedure. If Mr. Perisa Jovanovic had been there at the beginning of the session and you had been there as chairman, you would have warned Mr. Petrovic that he was not the rapporteur on this agenda point, that he was not asking questions about this agenda point. He can be present as a representative of the government. Just to remind you, in an earlier session, Mr. Stojkovic was usually present, but during these discussions he said, "there is a great personal council and a second larger one, which is also responsible for the resolution, I am here as a representative of the government, I have come to hear" etc. However, Mr. Petrovic tried to explain all this to us, but it is not the Ministry's jurisdiction at all. Mr. Petkovic, who is chairman of the Justice Committee, is not here. He is, officially, in these acts of ours, an authorised representative of this agenda point. The fact that Mr. Petrovic was in the beginning to declare something of his own, I suggest you don't take it very seriously, because Mr. Petrovic is famous for saying things in this assembly. I am in charge of reminding the viewers and your MPs a little bit, and on the left hand side, those on the right already know what democracy is like for us, and what it has brought us since January 25, 2001, I'm talking about a republican level. They immediately realized they needed to change judges and prosecutors. How was that change going? One of my predecessors read these letters, how the first fighters of the Five-Octobar Revolution should advance, so it seems to me, in Valjevo, that the President of the Trade Court elected a man who doesn't even know where the court is, so the daughter of a lawyer was elected, so it turns out she's not even a judge, but she was immediately elected judge, etc., and with Mr. Bosko Ristic, he's long known, the pensioners led the District Court in Nis. This is just a continuum with the pensioners. There's nothing new about it. What's this about? It's about one democratic principle: "the worse - the better". DOS was tasked with mutilating the justice system. What did they do? They remembered these Kostunicas that they needed to change, they say "institution, legalism" etc., and they started to change the set of justice laws, so they formed appeals and administrative courts. Of course, it's all on paper, but it's not there today. They changed the way they chose, the way they were resolved, etc. Otherwise, once upon a time, this wouldn't be any problem with the end of a judge's duty because someone turned out to be working age. It went according to some of its automatism. The National Assembly would only find out that someone had stopped working because a man had retired, etc. The transition is understood not as an evolutionary change in the development of a society, but as an insane accession to the European Union, which doesn't want us. There you have the schizophrenics one of these MPs was talking about. Mr Petrovic, since you're an official reporter, that's how you introduced yourself here, here is the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duty. That's 25. 49th I.D. On this list are judges who cease the duties of judges due to the completed working century. There are 25 judges on that list. But there was a mistake. I have to tell you that Magda Peter, Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrsac, needs to be resolved for the permanent loss of his ability, so he's going to be resolved. I need to remind you of another candidate. They're legal-technical mistakes. It can be fixed. Natalija Čepic, or Cenic, I do not see well, due to the permanent loss of working ability. So it's not about the completion of the working century, it's about the permanent loss of working ability and then it's probably going under another variant. However, in this pile of documentation, it is likely that both judicial and public prosecutorial functions ceases to be a problem in the absence of office due to the completed working age or permanent loss of work ability. When it comes to the termination of office on a personal request, we should probably all ask ourselves why this duty ceases on a personal request. I have no intention of defending anyone who submits such a request, because it is a personal will. But if someone in that letter, where they say he's out of the office of the Supreme Court judge, points out what was going on, what motivated him to give up or leave the judiciary, then we'd have to imagine what was going on in our judiciary, so that "Sabela" wouldn't happen to us, 12,000 arrested (Batic has not been arrested, asked here for 15 minutes to be a death penalty), so that it would come back again, and at the time we were admitted to the Council of Europe. We were admitted to the Council of Europe at a time of emergency. That's a little strange, but it shows that even the Council of Europe has hurried to welcome us to support democratic forces in clearing things up. That cleanup doesn't go on the "Sabre" principle anymore, because it's worn out. But we see, according to some prosecutors, and also some present MPs who are dense, and also here some time, who Mile the jerk, explain their ideological attitudes about some responsibility, as something depends on them, one of them asks for some consent, etc. We see that it is dense, that the ball is unwinding, that there is some data, probably the political background of all these things that have been happening to us, and that you have, in a very perfiduous way, represented through your media as a relapse of the past, retrograde power, ideological inspiration, etc. I have to remind you that all of this is in a criminal mile called DOS. Mr. Petrovic, I'm here once, you weren't there, I warned the public, you probably heard, I know that you're interested in this case of "proved mafia", you have why to be personally interested, now I warn the judicial authorities - to pay particular attention to this case; I am not pleased that some are released, but I am not involved in the work of the judicial authorities. However, it is not correct to call some prosecutors here because they have launched an investigation into Sartide. That's it. It's about Sartid and a few months of running action, to see how such beautiful contracts happened, etc. I fully agree that it's all within the coalition of this left here. The SPS isn't in this story. I have no intention of playing St. Sava, of defending you, of keeping you calm, etc. How are you going to discuss it, I don't know. Just to remind you that the bar is very small. It's a very small bar, Labus is silent, yet wise, there will be more stories and stories, I won't reveal to you all the cards, what will be the end. You take a good path, you take your eyes out, I'm absolutely sure. This is where the harsh facts are spoken, because in all these mafias that are currently currently in the justice system, they are inevitably talking about DOS. DOS is inevitable. You now have to disintegrate, since that spirit has come out of the lamp, the public has been informed. Why should the government get in the way - well, they've informed us spectacularly. Let me remind you, during the election campaign several mobs were put in jail. With the right now, the public expects the right information to be received and the epilogue to end up in court, not according to the system as it was in "Sablja", although there is a sign that you are also applying it; it is spectacularly arrested, and it is released overnight, that no one knows. Don't do that. You work transparently, clearly, to see everything, to make it absolutely clear to everyone what who did, because there is no room for media manipulation anymore, according to the system – "Blic" has published. Of course the Blitz will announce when it's known where it is, what and who it is. So for those resources you have in the media, count on them to be pretty embarrassed, exhausted, and you don't have the capacity to end something the way you imagined. I have to take a chance since Mr. Petrovic is here. Mr. Petrovic, I think it's about time this government started thinking a little bit about constitutional law. In order not to repeat now, as Mr Batic, who, whenever he comes out, calls on that member to choose the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court Act, etc., I will now skip it, since it has become a well-known fact that you do not respect the Constitutional Law. However, I risk distracting you that there are some members, such as Article 6. Constitutional law, where it is necessary that, in accordance with the new constitution, a whole new set of rules on justice come in and I draw your attention to some other things. Take care when you propose new candidates for judicial functions. Why take care? Take care because I will try to provide quality documentation for each of your candidates. Now there's one thing that needs to be progressed. Let me tell you right now, Jovan Prijic will best tell you who the candidate is. Why? Because Jovan Prijic has had the opportunity to listen to transcripts of recorded conversations and who is everything from the Prosecutor's Office in which the mafia, to what level, is involved, involved, etc. I'd like to draw your attention in advance, so that you don't say - I don't know, I've been suggested by the Secretary of State. At the last point, it was like that. Minister Cvetkovic says - I have no idea why I'm here, that's what the Secretary of State suggested. When we do a little bit of discussion about what he suggested, who suggested it, we see the merits of the five-eyed revolution, but there are some other additions that suggest that quite a crime flourishes in that DOS and that there are no more hiding. It's done quite publicly. Of course, this is all my modest contribution, to show the citizens of Serbia that this democratic block is a snap system; there is no ideology. What ideology is there in them? There's no ideologies. Please, what did they suggest? We had the opportunity to listen to the Justice Committee for three years what Mr. Petrovic was doing with the judiciary in the Mačvan County. You can play as much as you like, but that's what's left in the Justice Committee's records. Here are the people who were members of the Justice Committee in the last session. It's simple, the paperwork went out on its own. I had no intention of walking around the foot and looking for-- give me the information for this one, for that one. No, but in the election, since we had the opportunity to consider it in the Justice Committee, to give an opinion, there was documentation for all the candidates who applied for a place. Then divorce is told, from both MPs and from these candidates who have applied, who have written, and even when the Ministry is doing a field check, it is heard exactly who has influenced, how it has affected, why it has affected, who is pushing whom, who is whose power, etc. Are you telling me there's no more pitching in this new government? He's got it. It's a once-in-a-lifetime thing, sometimes it's voluntary. Why? They are small values of those people who want to be judges at all costs, so they accept that they are placed in a block or that the sympathisers are some of the parties that make up the government and thus advertise themselves, demonstrate their loyalty. They think it's the main cause of their choice here. That's a fact. We may be insolent, but that's a fact. How many times have the members of the Justice Committee been invited by a candidate, or a relative, who says - if you support them, they end up with these and those parties. If you don't believe it, go to your seat, and ask the judges from 2001 on which criteria they were chosen. I'm sorry there was no Mr. Jovanovic, he was the vice president of the government when there were arrests, and it was a gro. Of course, he was then elected vice president of the government, twice just came to the National Assembly, was in this jinx place, where the waterways were. I must draw your attention that some people have been elected judges since 2001 to 2003 under strange circumstances. Some, under strange circumstances, went to the county court. To make progress to the district court, they had to prove themselves, Mr. Ristic. How to prove themselves - the verdicts they made as judges in the municipal court. Yes, yes, yes, and then it happened that on the day of the election of a court president here, Zivkovic, Bosko Ristic and Hiber were changing papers. You know? It's probably some kind of democratic procedure. (The Belief of Radeta, an incursion from the city: and Ljiljana Mihajlović? ) Release Ljiljana Mihajlović. We know all who he is and how he's set up, why he's chosen and by what criteria he chooses. As many of these candidates, it takes three days to list, it's hard to list names, you can't find a court where it wasn't. That's what people in court know best. Go to any court and tell me - I got the case, I need that man and that man to judge me. From the office, through the porter, and on and on, everyone will tell you -- he's from the DSS, he's from the DS, he's from the Civil League, he's from this, he's from that. What? You say the radicals don't. The most radicals there is? Okay, I expect after what you said you were going to go out for a pay phone and tell us specifically where those are the judges who are radicals, the socialists, who don't belong to the democratic bloc. People, well, it's impossible they don't belong to a democratic bloc. Just to remind you that on September 24, 2000, there were elections for the Federal Assembly and for the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You didn't mind taking down October 5th, Malten, the Republic government, for which there was no election. It's your understanding of democracy. That was democratic -- let's light up, Mitsun will renovate it after, some funds. What Batic says, three futters. We know that, Batik. Batic says - three futhers are just burned and so on. As you can see, space has narrowed down. The time has come to file accounts, reports. People can't keep quiet anymore, you know. Some people come forward and say openly what was going on, how was going on, who was doing the transformation, how he was transforming. I draw your attention to all of these items where there's some kind of mob. Keep an eye on the judge's gentlemen, Mr. Prosecutors, how you're going to end these cases. My suggestion is that you do it in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Don't listen to executive power, because all those who listened to executive power ended up in prison. All those who planted pumpkins with the Democratic Party ended up in jail, their heads broke. So, judges, the law in hand and you work, resist any pressure. You have the support of the Serbian Radical Party If you kneel for the first time... [[elevator in the O.R.]] Excuse me, please, are you insolent against the Constitution and the law? Well, I'm proud to point out that we follow the Constitution and the law, and you're smiling. You mean like Tito. Well, it's not a float, huh? I know, you're that kind of left-handed. You're that kind of leftist, and you're out of that nest, though, and your dad's here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4905	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. He's the last debater, hopefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4906	Dear People's MPs, here, the SRS Parliamentary Group would like to bring down their position and their participation in the debate on this agenda point. We were talking about DOS today, in one, second and third form, but this is DOS. All the problems that are being solved today, all your discussions, the treasure, each other against each other, are actually within the scope of one house, within DOS. Don't forget, October 5th O.G. It'll be seven years since you've been in power. A little more, so you will be in power longer than Slobodan Milosevic. In those seven years, you will be remembered for accusing each other, trying to deceive each other and how Serbia suffered because for three or four years you worked badly, in campaigns you brought all the evils about each other, and then, after the elections, you formed joint governments. This is how your previous governments started, two or three months of peace, until it started and came out, until it came to the surface. That's how this part of the agenda works. Why don't you say, Mr. Minister, this is all done by the DSS? Why don't you say they deprived Serbia of the Republic Public Prosecutor? That's what old Dusan Petrovic would brilliantly explain from this pay phone. But this Dusan Petrovic wanted to join the government. Now, when you enter the government, you can't mention what you attacked just a month before that, and that's not life. You probably don't feel completely satisfied with this function you're doing right now, because who knows what else they're gonna charge you to defend here. Although, as a rule, it's indefensible what screws up the DSS, absolutely indefensible. You see, always before the elections, the government arrests the mob, and there's everyone involved -- prosecutors, judges, media, government, and that's the system of government over Serbian citizens, over their brains. There's no law. There was a Marsilio of Padova, and in some sources they call him Marcio Padovianski, who said the laws serve to limit the will of judges and masters. Your laws serve to serve you, and when I can't, they stay away. You yourself have erased some of the crimes in our legislation. The burning of the Federal Assembly is not a crime. It's not organized crime, not at all, although there are transcripts of how a month before that you've been negotiating who's going to burn anything, who's going to crash, who's going to beat who. Breaking into the People's Bank with guns is not an act of organized crime. Breaking into the federal administration of customs is not a crime of organized crime. You form after that the D.A.'s Department of Anti-Organized Crime, Special Courts, not prosecute acts that are the image and opportunity of organized crime. Then what are you doing? Then you go on the roads, on the charge ramps, arrest people, and you say, "This is organized crime." Well, then you go to customs, and then those customs officers who openly tell the media that they were ordered or that they were forwarding money to the top of their government. You arrest them, you hold them in custody, so you can keep them completely quiet, quietly, at night, like those of Sabre, released from custody. You have accused many professors of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac. Does the public know they were released from custody? Yes, they were released. Let's just talk like people. Who went to college doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. You have accused many honest people, some of them -- because the patriots, because at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, the lecture could have been held by the Russian ambassador, could have been Cuban, but could not have been American. That wasn't the American ambassador's base. Now these people are going to get out, they're out, and these people are completely innocent. Some of your MPs here know that. What happens to these people now? Are they the "enlightenment mafia"? Is that some kind of "professor mafia"? What did you do about Vojislav Kostunica being some people, while you weren't in power yet, accusing them of being a mob? Are you now joining and forwarding the conclusions of Vojislav Kostunica? Let me remind you, just a few months ago, your president, then the president of Serbia, said Serbia is not a democratic country. You were an MP at the time, head of the Parliament Group. With such a non-democracy, you are now making a government. What are you doing today, Mr. Petrovich? What are you? The replacement for Zoran Stojkovic, for someone who wrote to his majority in the Assembly a year and a half ago, and she did not respond. He asked most of his people to relieve him of the prosecutor who had filled and finished his work, and they didn't do that to him. You don't ask why. What reason did Vojislav Kostunica have not to provide a majority of 126 MPs to resolve a man, one more thing should not be forgotten, which became a Republic Public Prosecutor a year before retirement? A year before the completion of that working century, it was appointed the Republic Public Prosecutor. That's when it's said here, in the Assembly - we'll deal with criminals. Here, we've waited for that year, and two more. What criminals did you deal with? When did organized crime take place in Serbia? When the first mob government came. The first mafia government was established in 2001. You'll see, it's coming up slowly. Shameful, you've been telling each other what you've been doing since 2001. What are you saying now? Sartid is a crime, and Cementara in Popovac is not a crime, just because one party from DOS influenced, and another party from DOS. What does Vladan Batic say about judges? He appointed his best man president of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, New Belgrade. What does Cedomir Jovanovic say? Whoever authorized him to enter Central Prison whenever he wanted and to take a convict or detainee out of prison, go to the gyms, orgy, and go back to prison in the morning. That's DOS, that was your Deputy Prime Minister. Don't try to clean up what can't be cleaned up. Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court. Serbia today loses the Republic Prosecutor, the prosecutor for organised crime, and now the demands come, 27 judges only in one letter. Where are our new judges? Is there any point in getting rid of the Republic Prosecutor now and not having a Republic Attorney anymore? Is there any sense in dispensing the D.A. for organized crime and not having a prosecutor for organized crime? Does it make sense for us to get 27 judges off without having a new 27? Seven Supreme Court judges are being resolved today. Do we have the Supreme Court? We don't have any more institutions in the judiciary. We're running out of everything. If I were you, I'd say people, while Serbia doesn't have a Constitutional Court, I don't want to be a minister of justice. There's no one to control me. You in the assembly won't, my majority won't control me, you'll be mumbling or burning somewhere, or quietly rebelling in family or among friends, and I don't have real control without the Constitutional Court. What kind of acts will you bring, Mr. Minister, that will not succumb to any control of constitutionality and legality? Such democracy is not created and not maintained. Just because you have a word in the name of a party -- democratic, doesn't mean it's not in a position to execute a dictatorship. "Sabela" is proof that democratic parties can introduce dictatorship. Have you ever allowed the Constitutional Court to respond to whether, under the Constitution, Natasa Micic has imposed a state of emergency on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia? That it was in accordance with the Constitution? Why did we have to say in the new constitution that the state of emergency could be introduced into the territory of the entire Republic? Because, under that constitution, the state of emergency could not have been introduced into the territory of all Serbia, and Natasa Micic introduced it into the territory of all Serbia. Who's going to decide who's going to check her guilt? Never, nobody, even when in opposition, is protected as "holy cows." And if they come out to object to you about the Rules of Procedure, some choice or something else, it's over, the president's taking a break to see what we're gonna do with Chad. If anyone mentions he's going to be arrested, the American ambassador comes forward in the media and says, "I don't see who's guilty and who's not guilty, I'm watching who's supposed to be arrested and who's not allowed to be arrested." Cedomir Jovanovic must not. It's the Department of Justice that you entered. Will you be able to take it out on your back? You won't. Either you will break, Mr. Petrovich, if you are an honorable man, or you will obey, and how the water carries, you will swim. Just because the government didn't honor us today to say that you're going to be her representative for this point, that's a sign of how much they appreciate you. Always, for every item of the agenda, the government needs to write who its representative is. You have the right, as minister, to come to every session, but we are interested in having the government domicile us and to say – if it has set up the agenda for this session - here, for that agenda point is the minister's representative, for that point, and Mr Petrovic, for the point - the selection and resolution of the holders of judicial functions, which did not regularly enter the agenda, because you know that 24 hours before the beginning of the session we have to get that material. We're getting material now, for the points we're discussing, and suddenly another 27 judges show up, so we have to go back again. All speakers would have the right to get their word back because they didn't know these judges were leaving, even though they were out of office in 2005, 2006 and 2007. That's what the turning point in this government's work is. You need to follow the Constitution and the laws, and whoever's guilty, answer. If it's a minister from the previous government, so let's say he ran science, and now he's running a completely different matter, anything can, never mind, if he's guilty, let him answer. It is not he who is guilty because they have robbed on the roads, that he should appoint a minister from the other chamber, who is guilty of being robbed in customs, that he should appoint a minister from the other chamber. He can't, people. Even these culprits, the main culprits, are not in prison, are not in custody, but those people who took the cards; they saw that the big sharks were stealing, and they decided to take some money too. Now, you welcome them and arrest them. For the fifth year, I've been listening to you decide who killed Zoran Djindjic, and everything revolves around these 126 MPs of the majority, in the old council, in this, you're here somewhere. You didn't find anyone outside your circle responsible for the murder of Zoran Djindjic as your employer. You accused the DSS, and she, the third indictee in Serbia, has never heard of anyone. For murdered journalists, what bothers you if the regime of Slobodan Milosevic killed a journalist eight years ago, so you can find out who killed that journalist? But then what is the reason for some of your ranks to say - we have information about all this, but we don't know why there's no investigation, why not go to the public court or at least a court of law? You guys smell a lot of shit. In the area of justice, you by the Constitution need to resolve all holders of judicial functions and choose new ones. Will the Government choose new municipal, districtal and where is the entire court, Mr. Minister, a court that decides which five judges of the Constitutional Court will be proposed by the judiciary? It's easy to come here and talk about the past, you should lead this country. How are you taking her? In accordance with the Constitution and the law? The one there, in the other way, everything will be, yes, and that's what Bosko Ristic is giving me, whose damage, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, I had to make peace with the MPs. So, they don't have rights, they don't have rights, and they, people, go to court, get interest after all. That's not how it works. You're as strong as you are, so what, come on, kill everybody if you're strong. There comes a time when you're not so strong anymore. How many times we talked from this pay phone - act like you're already in opposition. I don't threaten you with defeat, I hope the next election is ours, but whenever you're in power, you threaten to be in opposition, waiting for you all the things you do to other people from the position of power. Did Cedomir Jovanovic think he'd ever come down from power? What evil he has done to Serbia! Where is he now? If it wasn't for America, which now directly supports and pushes him, what would you do to him? By now, he'd be in jail if it wasn't for your fear, your autocensorship, your autosuggesties, your blockages in the brain -- Cedomir Jovanovic, don't touch it. Well, don't touch him, well, don't touch Djindjic's ministers, well, Djindjic's chiefs of staff, well, Djindjic's from DB, from the police, so, then, don't touch Kostunica, this one, that one, etc. Who do we touch? Come on, these radicals, kill us, and what are you going to do after, so beat us up, and what are you going to do after? The flesh must be given to the angels. This point is pointless, absurd. What are we getting at this point? You're saying, Minister, that two years ago, he stopped his term as prosecutor and that we're not jeopardizing other laws. He couldn't work, he could get paid, the state could hire him somewhere as a pensioner, make a contract and pay for new contributions. Pensioners are not paid contributions in the West, and they are still paid here. But if you tell us now that two years ago he stopped being a prosecutor, I have to ask you what he's been doing for two years, is there at least any signature on his act? No, you have to realize that today his work stopped, on the day that the Assembly makes its decision, and for these two years, the responsible person has stopped making peace with the state. The only thing that is right is that his decisions would be legally valid, so far he had to be a Republic Prosecutor, and for the state to be calmed down -- one who was guilty of working for two years after the end of the working day, let all the financial resources that the Republic Public Prosecutor spent, both he and other judges and other prosecutors, be paid into the state budget. Then we could say that in some way we've settled justice. If you think it's right that two years after someone's retirement we find out that he's retired today, then this country has nothing. Because you drive the poor girl out of the factory, and now you're driving them from the ZO from Kragujevac because, says the minister, such as the WHO, there's no extension of the contract on the street. You make it easy for a poor girl to drive away, you big fish, mostly criminals, you can't drive away. Nothing, we'll drive them and you away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4907	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4908	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time this kind of question has not been on the agenda of the Assembly, and it is understandable to hold a debate as long as it is today. A large number of important issues have been raised. There was, of course, a debate on how well it would be and how it is right to interpret the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Judges. Before I say a few words about it very briefly, I want to answer groups of questions that I, as Minister, have been asked. First of all, I have no contact with all the procedures that are being conducted with the aim of getting the judges cleared unless, as a minister of justice, I initiate these proceedings or have not been initiated by the previous minister of justice. All other things, including individual judges, or judges, whose resolution has been followed, I am not in a position to comment because these proceedings are being handled by the Greater Personality. Also today, I have seen a formal request for the termination of the judge's duties, which Judge Drecun referred to, and for the first time today I could read the reasons she listed. Of course, everything indicated will be examined in the appropriate place. I don't want to comment on the decision that Mrs. Dracun is talking about, nor am I the way to decide. It's bigger, there's seven judges. That was a third-degree trial. So all the instances that exist under our criminal code have passed and in the final degree that decision has been made. The High Judicial Council will decide who will be the performer of the duties. I don't want to reconsider, nor comment until that decision is made. I will participate as a person empowered under the Constitution and the law in this procedure. All correspondence, and one of the messengers spoke of it, which were sent to the address of the minister of justice, with great care and commitment, I will study. I didn't get a memo from any of the heads of Parliament's clubs, unless the Justice Department arrived during the day, and as you can see, I'm here today in the Assembly, so I'm certainly going to take it very seriously. It was also noted that there are no representatives of the profession in the High Council of Justice. The Belgrade Faculty of Law professor, Mr. Tomic, has expired. By law, Serbia's Supreme Court is in charge of proposing a new prominent lawyer, who should be elected to the High Council of Justice in this assembly. The proposal of the Supreme Court of Serbia is such that the person proposed, as it stands in my information, does not accept it, so that Serbia's Supreme Court will have to propose a new person. An existing situation no one can be satisfied. We are not in situations where we can make a good statement about the situation we now have. Of course, it's not good that it's been a long time since the conditions for pensioning different legal holders were met. That's a fact. However, there is another fact, which is that, among other things, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, as its fundamental duty and its right, the task of caring for the protection of public interest, and also of protecting private interests, because the sum of these private interests is also public interest. I'm going to read article 79 for a little while. Public prosecutor's law. The same member exists in the Law on Judges. So, two situations have been arranged, and I said something about it at the beginning, but now I'm going to quote this member. One defines that event of circumstances where I am a judge, or prosecutor, requires that it be resolved. The law on the case says - if a request for termination of office is not decided within a month, it is believed that the duty of the public prosecutor, as well as the judge, and the deputy, has ceased to expire within a month of the submission of the request, which is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. So, when a judge, prosecutor or deputy prosecutor is asked to be resolved, and it has been a month since the time of that resolution, it is no longer necessary for the Serbian Parliament's Assembly to decide, but there is a obligation of professional services in the Serbian Parliament to publish it in the "Official Messenger" and thus ceases its judicial function. There is a whole second set of opportunities, where the law says - in other cases, including the completion of the working century, duty ceases on the day that the National Assembly states in its decision. So the National Assembly can put different dates into a decision. Of course, the National Assembly, as a political body to which the Law and the Constitution are given prerogatives, prerogatives, executives, in the best intention, of assessing what the public interest is. My belief, I said it at the outset, and I will say now, is that it is public interest, because of all the criminal proceedings that are under way, because of all the litigation procedures that are under way, because of the fact that extraordinary legal remedies have been filed, which are subject to the right of the Republic Public Prosecutor, because of all the enforcement procedures, and the Republic Public Prosecutor has, in the executive proceedings, the right to request an end to the execution if he has initiated an emergency legal procedure, that this assembly should decide that the Republic Public Prosecutor and other public prosecutors cease to act on the day of decision-making. I also want to say that there is a single opinion of a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, it is Vladan Batic. Today, in the first part of the meeting of the Justice Committee, he expressed his opinion that this should be arranged differently. In the second part of the session, no one singled out their opinion and I think it would be good, if it were a public interest, to have a decision taken as proposed. One important question Mr Tomislav Nikolic has opened up here, and some other MPs, and that is the issue of the Constitutional Court. In order for the Constitutional Court to be established, according to the Constitution, constitutional law should be passed. The Justice Department has prepared a draft. The draft is on the evaluation of the Council of Europe. Serbia joined the Council of Europe, as the Council of Europe was joined by the Russian Federation, Belarus and all European continent countries. It is very important that we get a positive assessment of the Council of Europe. I expect, as it is said, that the evaluation will arrive this week. According to the first information we have, which came from the OSCE, the draft law is very good and, when we have a good text, it will immediately go to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I expect the government to adopt the bill and come to this parliament. How can I judge, September is the month when this law can enter the congregation procedure and surely then the Assembly will choose all members of the Constitutional Court that it can choose. The President of the Republic has submitted 10 proposals. Of these 10 proposals, the Assembly will choose five. Ten candidates need the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the President of the Republic, and that is where the president will choose five. With those ten judges, there are quite enough judges to establish a Constitutional Court with constitutional law. The last five judges can be elected when the Supreme Cassation Court is established. We work very hard at the Department of Justice to prepare a set of judicial laws. The basic laws are, I said, at the beginning of this debate, the law on the High Council of the Court, the State Council of Prosecutors, the law on judges, the law on the regulation of courts. Very difficult decisions must be made, a decision on whether there will be a full re-election of the judge or not, a decision on how many judges Serbia will have. When those decisions are made, we will have a clear idea of how many courts Serbia should have. As you know, several times the constitution of appeals courts, or the Court of Appeal, has been delayed, we will see what happens, the decision of this assembly, which will have more departments, as well as the Supreme Cassation Court. What I can guarantee as Minister of Justice is that, as soon as possible, all the buildings in which these new courts need to be placed will be completed and that, as far as I can assess at this time, we will be able to complete a major state-owned business as soon as possible, and that is the constitution of the judiciary in accordance with the new constitution. Such a system of justice will guarantee full, I believe, independence to the prosecutions and independence to the courts. I think that together, whether we are part of the parliamentary majority or not, we will participate in one business of the greatest public and state interest in the most recent future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4909	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in particular on each draft decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, on the basis of Article 85(3), Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, today, at 19.10 p.m., as the Day of Vote on All Points of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 - 23. Seven. In 2007. Thank you. [[After break – 19.15.]] I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Sasa Jankovic, the Manchester, who will take a solemn oath at the end of today's work. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all the agenda points of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, we move to a decision. I ask you to determine the number of MPs present. By applying the electronic voting system, it has been found that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there is a quorum to decide. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the establishment of a SPECIFIC PARAL RELATION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing a special parallel relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and I remind you that, under Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, the National Assembly decides most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 140 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, in general. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill confirming the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European History of Local Self-Government Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government, in principle. For 141, of 141 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 15 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, a abstentioned one, not 12, of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government, in general. For 141, one of the 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Financial Agreement between KFW, FRANKFURT OF THE MAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA "REHABILITATION OF THE LOCAL SRIJANY SYSTEM IN SERBIA – FAZA III" As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the loan and financing agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia "Rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia – phase III", in principle. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, there was no 13 vote, out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, there was no 13 vote, out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government proposes that the amendment, with a correction, be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with a correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, there was no 13 vote, out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan and financing agreement between KFW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia "Rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia – phase III", in general. For 130, it did not vote 11 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan and Financing Agreement between KFW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia "Rehabilitation of the Local Heating System in Serbia – Phase III". We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Saradnes in South-Eastern Europe As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Southeastern European Police Cooperation Convention, in principle. Two out of 139 MPs did not vote for 137. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Southeast European Police Cooperation Convention, in general. For 141, of 141 MPs. The National Assembly has adopted a bill confirming the Southeast European Police Co-operation Convention. We move to item 5 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PROTOCOL ON THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON PROVENTION AND APPROVAL OF THE CARIN PROCEDURES Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures, in principle. For 142 of 142 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures, in general. For 141, against one, of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation of Customs Procedures. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – SUGGEST OF THE DECISION OF ENDING THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. Before we move on to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly on the termination of office of judicial officials decides most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors. I am putting the motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the deputy public prosecutors. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the post of deputy public prosecutors. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2549/07. For 129, it was not 13 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend judicial office, number 118-2549/07. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2550/07. For 130, it did not vote 12 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2550/07. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provision of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 23 July 2007, at 11:17 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 100, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 80, with four abstentions, 57 of the 142 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held at the session of the Third Extraordinary Session in 2007, held on 29 June 2007, made a decision on the selection of the Citizens' Protector and that Mr. Sasa Jankovic, a graduate lawyer from Belgrade, was elected as the Citizens' Protector. Also, I remind you it's article 7. The Law on the Protector of Citizens found that the Protector of Citizens took an oath before taking office before the National Assembly. I ask Mr. Sasu Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, to approach for the sake of taking an oath. I ask the People's Messengers to stand up. Please repeat the text I read. (The President reads and the Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic repeats the text of the oath, as set out in Article 7. The Law on the Protector of Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4910	I swear to do my duty with responsibility, impartially and independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that I will safely work to protect and improve human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-23-0.u4911	I ask Mr. Sasu Jankovic, the Protector of the Citizens, to sign the text of the oath. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to congratulate Mr. Sasha Jankovic on his duties and wish him success in his work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. in the House of the National Assembly, in the Square of Nikola Pasic, a session on the adoption of a resolution on Kosovo begins. Thank you very much.
