ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14489	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, since Mr. Chairman congratulated all the glory of St. Nicholas, I join his congratulations. During yesterday's 10 minutes, I pointed out the numerous anomalies that have occurred in healthcare since 2000, and now I'm going to try to point to the reflection of these anomalies on the Health Center Negotin, as one mal-health institution in a small municipality, and with which the problem is encountered by such and similar health institutions. The amendment refers to the Negotin Health Center, where around 14,000 people receive medical services and use the right to compulsory health insurance, and the state does not want to admit that they exist and use their right to Negotin. In fact, it is 14,000 people who are on temporary or occasional work abroad who regularly come to be treated with us. The second specificity of our facility is that our institution also provides treatment services to many people and patients from Kladov and Majdanpek, especially those of which there is no speciality in Kladovo and Majdanpek. Then, another specificity is that the Negatin municipality is an area of Balkan endemic nephropathy, an endemic disease accompanied by an increased incidence, i.e. an increased number of urinary bladder tumors, urinary tracts and kidneys. Also, another specificity is the presence of chemical industry, the "Prahovo" chemical products, which is a carcinogenic factor and which affects the appearance of these urological tumours and all other tumours. We ask this amendment to increase the number of workers in the Health Center by 14 specialists, five in secondary health care and nine in primary health care, as well as the number of nurses, by 10, who work in hospitals. Namely, what happened after 2000? The conditions for providing services in hospitals and in the home of health have deteriorated. The quality of the services provided, unfortunately, threatens to deteriorate. One of the first and most important anomalies is that there are not enough doctors and nurses to work on the department. In particular, it refers to the number of nurses, so now we have a phenomenon that a shift nurse is working in the department, and that means that she should serve patients in an intensive, semi-intensity unit and in the department, which is ultimately against the law. It is known that every room of semi-intense and intensive care, whether it applies to operational branches, whether it refers to shock or to a coronary unit, internally and in any other department, must have one sister who will work there and who will not be allowed to leave her post, and the department should have another nurse. In this case, this is impossible to do at the Negotin Health Center without increasing the number of this staff and doing it minimally by 10 sisters. What happened next, just according to the regulation on the near conditions for performing health care, is that a large number of departments at the Health Center Negotin lost a certain number of beds, someone less, someone more. This means that a class that had 20 beds, for example, as with urology, now stays with 10 beds, an orthopedic of 20 beds remains without five etc. What's gonna happen? It will happen that people who need to be admitted to the hospital for "cold" surgery, for treatment, etc. They won't be able to go to the hospital right away, they'll be able to form waiting lists, which they already have, and now they're going to be much bigger. The question arises how can emergency care be taken when, first of all, there is no room, there are no beds in hospitals, or beds there, but they must remain empty, under the law. How will patients understand that? Who's gonna give them that ambulance? How will a sister who works both in the semi-intense and in the intensive unit and in the department now go with me to the O.R. or provide him with an ambulance? The conditions for working at the Negotin Health Center are indeed becoming impossible. I'm asking a question -- what is a health care facility in the area of the stem branch that has increased the number of beds, increased capacity to receive such cases? There is no such thing, which means patients like this will have to go to Nis or Belgrade because of the most banal operations. How are these patients gonna handle it? Do you know what it was like to operate in your town, with doctors and nurses you know or in another town, unknown, where you don't know anyone? How are the family members of this man's family supposed to operate? What we're facing further, it's a growing number of specializations that get these medical institutions, so we're going to have serious problems with restoring professional personnel. I would like to remind this opportunity that an expert does not get through the completion of the specialization, that it is only one of the conditions to become a good, mature expert and that every expert in medical activity must have a certain number of years of work experience in order to mature and reach the maximum of providing its services. For years, we tried, from 1990 to 2000, to increase the capacities and number of health workers, and therefore was built the fourth floor of the hospital in Negotin. It's been building for 10 years and more. Many funds were invested in the fourth floor to increase capacity in the internal department, neurophysiology, urology, orthopedics and all other departments. We barely, with severe pain, managed to from urology and orthopedics, which were sections, to create departments, to ophthalmology and otorinolaringology, and these were infirmarys, to create sections, to increase the number of beds precisely for these patients who didn't have them. We've done it all by 2000, and then there's the restrictive health care that actuates it and returns it to its initial state. For the end, I want to say one more thing - health care professionals cannot provide the continuity of duty 24 hours, throughout the month and all year. There aren't enough doctors for duty. Namely, the Labour and Sublaw Act prevents them from being paid for by the duty they voluntarily perform for more than 40 hours a month. Then, these fellow officers who are on duty at night have to stay and work 32 hours in continuity for scheduled activities and first shifts, and there's no one to undo them and will, so it's happening again that the urologist will be on duty for the surgeon, eyes for the urologist, etc., which is a major anomaly that is deepening with this condition. There's still a lot of anomalies, and I'm running out of time, and I thank the chairman who didn't interrupt me. Thank you very much. There'll be another chance to talk about non-Ninthian health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14490	Natasa Jovanovic, acting under the amendment, has the word as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the five-octobaric coup to today, Serbia's health care is in an extremely difficult situation. I fully understand Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic's intention to help one environment, in particular the city of Negotin. We Serbian radicals never represent narrow local patriotic attitudes, and so do I, who know the health problems of the town of Kragujevac, have a complete understanding of the problem in Negotin, although I don't go there so often, but I leave when the election campaigns and activities that suggest me to listen to problems and that part of Serbia. What is important is to say that the health minister, who is immeasurable and whose third term for the past seven years, has divided the business of his tycoons from the health and pharmaceutical mafia in Serbia by the clans. That's what I'm telling you openly, and that's what every doctor and every man who keeps to his profession and who can't deal with the clans that exist in health care will tell you. Mr Dimitrijevic, since you are not, as no Serbian radical, a participant of this government, Boris Tadic and a group of the Democratic Party and the minister they have supported all these years, will hardly pass this amendment on to you. The same problem is the clinical center in Kragujevac, medical work in Kragujevac... I've got to get you back to that story from 15 days ago, which I raised through the MP's question to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, about the VMA. So when you see such a large health system, an institution a couple of excellencies in scientific terms, in the work, there is no, therefore, in Europe, for some segments of VMA, someone who is a pandan of these people and their profession, then you see how pathetic it is in the state of Serbia when the government concentrates in the hands of clans that decide what and who does. You can, and of course, that all the money that came from the sale of national wealth has come together, amounting to a billion and more than 300m euros, from the National Investment Plan, now to say -- well, it would be time for that part of Serbia and Negotin to get those funds because they are necessary, it is not only preventive health care, but it is obvious that there are, unfortunately, Serbian citizens who are registered with the most severe diseases. But who will listen to you? So, although members of the SRS Health Committee, above all, Dr Paja Momchilov, who is a nightmare for health minister Tomica Milosavljevic, are dealing with a detailed analysis not only of all the failures, but of the thief by the minister and his clans, nothing is worth it, Mr Dimitrijevic. I am now interested, Mr Cvetkovic, was it (I used this amendment to support this pledge by Dr Dimitrijevic) at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, since it was news broadcast on the state television programme, and provo my issue to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, whether the Serbian government made it last week or will make such a decision this week that the military-medical academy is incorporated into Serbia's health system? So, the news went through all of Serbia lightningly, and the citizens were happy about the fact that every citizen of Serbia, as the state television reported the other night, would be able to treat the VMA if it received an instruction in its home health or clinical centre from a specialist doctor, without restrictions from a specialist doctor – you can do the same, for example, at a clinical center in Kragujevac, Belgrade or Nis, it is your right to... So I understood the news broadcast by the state television, which I was just looking for on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the VMA, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, so I am interested in, Mr Minister, whether it was published only to ensure the real situation of the matter or whether it would be operationalised in the sense that the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed a contract with the Fund and that it would take effect. Not only because of the fact that VMA has over 30% of the capacity it can accept citizens who are civilian insurance companies, but also because of the fact that some services, or operations carried out there, cannot perform other clinical and health centres in Serbia, so it is probably a natural thing for every citizen, whether he is from Kragujevac, Negotina, Nis, Pirota, Subotica, Novi Sad, to exercise his right to guarantee him the Constitution and to come to VMA. If such a decision is not made by the end of the year at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, VMA, which you have otherwise completely ignored when it comes to the scientific and research field, I must tell you... That it's not people like professors. Slobodan Arsenijević, who is the president of the Accreditation Commission, and the Dean of the Medical Faculty, also younger Professor Arsenijević, who have special contracts for the scientific and research area with VMA, would in that sense, with such a staff, with such equipment, be in full custody because of the government's lack of care. It's a question for you and it's very serious, Mr. Minister. It is not only interested in VMA employees, they are over 3000, citizens who are being treated there, there are just as many, but also citizens of all Serbia who expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be responsible for accessing this problem and to finally get rid of it, or to sign a valid contract, not only to indicate items that could be used for treatment or for participation or for these diseases, but for everything on the list, for every health and clinical centre in Serbia. Certainly, counterpart Dimitrijevic, although I know that the battle ahead is lost because they have no hearing, these are small problems for them in some Serbian cities, I believe that you will not succeed in your truly human and good intention to get this amendment to the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14492	The word has been made by the People's MP Dusan Stupar, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14493	Mr. Vice President, thank you. I immediately reported that I wanted to speak to the Rules of Procedure. Since you, on our behalf, congratulated the faithful today's glory on behalf of all MPs, I will show on this case how one City Hall of Stars congratulates the believers. On the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I am looking for an explanation and notice so that I can be an MP to be serious about my business. Today is the greatest glory of the Serbian people, and the City Hall of Starship, the Department of Municipal and Construction Affairs, has made a solution to move 11 families from the Stardustr territory tomorrow, on the second day of glory, out of the winter. Please, gentlemen, do you know of any normal country where someone will make a decision, first, when fame is, second, when it's a bad time, when it's winter, that someone throws himself out on the street? Serbian Radical Party MPs will not allow any of the citizens present to move out. Among the citizens who live there are people who are Muslim religions. You don't honor any holiday. Look at what they say, it's a social company called "Polet" that is in bankruptcy; it says – the present trustee said that the Privatisation Agency, it was appointed as a bankruptcy manager... Since it's an extraordinary location, where there's definitely something to build, it's in the Partizan road, not far from the OMV gas station (and you've already halved the Star Forest, there's no fairies, there's a Star Forest destroying itself), now someone's stopped back and forth to move those citizens to start certain construction works and build a building. Please, Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for an explanation and a notice on whether tomorrow the police will come out on the spot, on the second day of their greatest Serbian glory, and give assistance to these people being thrown out on the street? These people, refugees, displaced faces, they're neatly connected with electricity, they're paying their expenses. If you had offered them other accommodations, people would surely have agreed. We won't let you throw them out on the street tomorrow. Please, Mr. Vice President, try today, with the President of the Assembly, to get information on whether the police will be involved in this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14494	I'm guessing we're looking for an explanation from the Home Office. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 6th Division 57 and 59 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Esad Djudževic, Bajram Omeragic and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14495	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the Sandzak List and the Roma Serb Union have submitted a joint amendment to Article 6. Draft budget law for 2008. The amendment contains two amendments and refers to the position of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. I have already said several times, both in the principle debate and in the debate on amendments, that we find it unacceptable that national minorities in the budget are mentioned only in one place, only in one position, regardless of the fact that national minorities, together with Kosovo and Metohija, make up one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia, and without the AP of Kosovo and Metohija account for 18% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The first amendment concerns the financing of those student homes whose founder is not the Republic of Serbia or the AP Vojvodina. There are several such dormitories. As examples of such dormitories, I would like to list the high school dormitory for talented students in Senta, the school home of Emmas in Mužlja, the study home of Apaches in Novi Sad and the mature girl's dormitory home. In these dormitories, mostly Hungarian national pupils live, but I am sure that such student homes have other national communities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is foreseen in the budget, in the economic classification of 472, 1.250,000 dinars at the Ministry of Education, and the distribution of these funds will be decided in the course of the year by the Ministry of Education. So it's unallocated assets. We have proposed, by amendment, that of these funds, that of 1,250,000 dinars, ten million dinars be allocated to finance these student homes whose founder is not the Republic or the Autonomous Province. I'm convinced that ten million dinars wouldn't bankrupt the budget. So, I think that if there is a goodwill in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Education, then ten million can be provided from these funds for those student homes whose founders are NGOs of national minorities and traditional religious communities, i.e. churches of national minorities. I would ask Mr Cvetkovic to accept this amendment and to allocate these funds to these student homes, primarily national minorities. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the Republic of Serbia has an international and legal obligation to finance the work of these student homes. Namely, there is a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary on the protection of the Serb minority in Hungary and the Hungarian minority in Serbia. Two meetings of intergovernmental mixed committees have been held in recent years. At these meetings of intergovernmental mixed committees, records were adopted, and in both minutes there is this obligation, i.e. the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to finance the work of these student homes. The first session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission was held on 13 December 2004 and the sixth item of the minutes speaks about this commitment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the second session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission between Serbia and Hungary was held on 10 November 2005, and in that minutes, paragraph 14 speaks of the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to finance these student homes. It is not good that for many years the Government of the Republic of Serbia has violated its international commitment to finance, i.e. non-financing of these student homes, the founders of NGOs and traditional churches, or the religious community of national minorities, so we have proposed that the anti-legislative situation be changed. That is why I urge Mr Cvetkovic to accept this amendment to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the List for Sandzak and the Union of Roma Serbia. The second part of the amendment refers to the construction, maintenance, emergency recovery and reconstruction of traditional churches and religious communities of national minorities. Under the Constitution, all religious communities and churches in the Republic of Serbia are equal. The Hungarians have three traditional churches: the Catholic Church, the Reform Church and the evangelical Church. Unfortunately, very few funds have been allocated from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the reconstruction of religious objects of the Catholic, reform and evangelical churches, and we have proposed that 180 million dinars be allocated in 2008 for emergency resolutions, reconstruction of religious facilities of churches of national minorities. The budget envisions 180 million for this purpose at the position of the Ministry of Faith, so we think it would be good if 180 million of these planned 28 million were allocated for the reconstruction of the religious structures of national minorities. Unfortunately, none of these amendments were accepted at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to quote the argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is why these amendments to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the list of Sandzak and the Union of Roma Serbs are not accepted. The government of the Republic of Serbia says it is not possible to adopt these amendments because the financial plans of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Faith are precisely defined for which it is possible to spend planned amounts. I'd like to say that, according to my knowledge, the Ministry's financial plan is not above the law, it's not above the Constitution. In the hierarchy of legal acts, the budget of the Republic of Serbia should be above the ministry's financial plan, so I simply cannot accept that our amendments submitted to the 2008 draft budget law are being rejected for reasons that they do not agree with the ministry's financial plans. For that reason, I ask Mr. Cvetkovic to accept these amendments. By accepting these amendments, the position of national minorities would be different, better in the proposed 2008 budget, so I would ask Mr Cvetkovic to accept these amendments on behalf of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14496	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14497	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has not fulfilled part of its international obligations for years, and we have, from time to time, a stalemate in European integration. But Serbia does not only violate its international obligations to The Hague tribunal, but unfortunately violates much simpler obligations stemming from bilateral agreements concluded with countries in the environment. Mr. Pastor spoke in detail about an agreement on the protection of the Serb minority, and the Hungarian minority in the Republic of Serbia. I just want to repeat that under the agreement, an intergovernmental body was formed, an intergovernmental mixed committee that has twice sat down and at these sessions Serbia has unequivocally taken the obligation to address the issue of financing those student homes that do not receive aid from state sources. With a record from the first session, held on 13 December 2004, Serbia has taken the obligation to resolve the issue of budget donations to these student homes. At the second session of the same commission, a year later, Serbia pledged to systematically address the issue of grant to these student homes. So, on the one hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised the importance and existence of these homes of student and student standards, homes whose founders are not the Republic or the AP and has committed to fund the work of these homes. With the amendment, we have proposed one simple thing, that 10 million dinars, in line with these obligations of the Republic of Serbia, be allocated to finance the work of these student homes. The second part of the amendment concerns funding, i.e. assistance to churches and religious communities of national minorities. This is consistent with what we have been talking about for a long time, which is the fact that more than 15% of the population of the Republic of Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, are national minorities. We believe that these proportions should also be taken into account when allocations of funds to traditional religious communities and among them to the religious communities of national minorities. The amendments were rejected with an explanation that meeting this requirement would directly jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of the programmes for which we have proposed amendments. On the other hand, it explains that these amendments cannot be accepted because, in the financial plans of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Faith, it is already precisely defined for which it is possible to spend a balanced amount of funds. Ladies and gentlemen, this practically means that the National Assembly does not decide on the spending of the citizens of Serbia, but on the ministry. So I don't know what this looks like. First, it looks like the ministry is making financial plans, at least according to this explanation, and then we in the National Assembly are just a nominating and we don't have any chance of making any changes in the ministry's plans. The second part of the argument indicates that we have proposed that the funds are being spent for a completely different purpose compared to the purposes that the Government has established, which is simply not true. In the section of the amendment relating to the student standard, we have proposed that part of the funds intended for the functioning of the student standard system, meaning, of these funds of 2.5 billion dinars, be directed right towards funding the student homes. So, for the exact same purpose, we just expanded the student standard home list this way. I don't think an amount of 10 million dinars would be likely to compromise the functioning of a system of student standards, for which 2.5 billion dinars are planned. The same situation is the same with part of the amendments concerning the assistance of churches and religious communities. So we did not suggest that these funds be channeled for other purposes, but rather for construction, adaptation and reconstruction of churches and objects of religious communities. We were just looking, and we're still going to ask that some of the funds should be directed towards national minorities, because this fact that in the Republic of Serbia lives just over a million members of national minorities, the Budget Law should not be omitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14498	The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14499	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to, on behalf of the LSV and on behalf of the Vojvodjan MPs Group, wish to wish to all those who today in Serbia and across the globe celebrate St. Nicholas. I mean, I don't agree with the principle of sharing money with churches and religious communities. I'm going to say how it's done in local self-governments that are a little bit better arranged, so I don't see any reason why the Ministry doesn't pass its experience on to local self-governments or that it doesn't use the experience of those environments where it's better solved. This is the following: for the functioning of churches and religious communities, money should be allocated according to one criterion; therefore, criteria should be developed depending on everything that is important for this work. The other kind of distribution of money is, in my opinion, on the basis of the competition. This would mean that churches and religious communities can report to competitions with their projects in order to bid on the resources necessary to maintain at the existing level their church, their facilities, or to raise it to a significantly higher level. Why am I saying this? In the beginning of the 20th century, the Roman Catholic Church was built in Bačka Topoli, which is the largest religious facility in the Republic of Serbia and is 72.70m high. Backwaters are trying and keeping it out of their budget, it's been a hundred years, they have to invest maintenance funds. Of the modest funds from the AP Vojvodina budget sometimes they get something, but from the Ministry of Faith's funds nothing. On the territory of the city of Bačka Topola is the church of the Holy Prophet Elijah, built in '39. the years of the last century. This church has great problems, for the rooms in which the clergy is situated are located immediately along the highway and over the past 60 years have been quite ruined. Backwaters have started building a new parish hall, but can't be done, because all the funds that are invested, are invested, first of all, from the budget of local self-government or from the donations of the local population, and it's rarer. What do I mean? All the money provided for the renovation of churches and religious communities comes to those who are at the top of these churches and religious communities. They, in their opinion, distribute that money, so that some of these funds cannot possibly come to, nor can they be used for what they should be used for. Then what do we see in the Republic of Serbia? I was alone a few times in the opportunity to see some of the monasteries in our country hanged tables, on which about this is said - the reconstruction of this monastery was helped by the largest Serb and Orthodox, most often by the magistrate Velimir Ilic. He's got some space left behind, I guess when he gets a new canoe, he'll take a picture, and then he'll put it on that board to engraving that picture. There is an impression among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this money that our ministers advertise across our country is not their money, that it is most likely from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If not, then I am free to claim that the mentioned minister is now richer than I am Miskovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14500	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14501	Dear Chairman, the presidency, Mr Minister, I would like to take advantage of the remaining time of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities to stress once more the importance of the amendments proposed jointly by the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the List for Sandzak and the Union of Roma Serbia. I am pleased that Minister Cvetkovic is in the O.R. and that he may be able to answer our questions, because we believe that the government's answer and opinion is very strange and incomprehensible. Once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of student homes whose founders are not state bodies, but traditional religious communities or NGOs. You can imagine how difficult it is to operate these student homes that work in Vojvodina, and they don't get budgets. It is said that everyone loves national minorities, that everyone cares about the issues of national minorities and that when something needs to be done concretely, when it comes to facilitating the position of children first, and then everyone else, we simply don't get positive answers. First, you're not willing to listen to us, and then explain to us why it's really like that. As we have heard in Mr. Pastor and Mr. Varga's address, it is pointless that it is in the light of why this amendment was rejected, one of the arguments that the financial plans of the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Finance are, in fact, above the budget. It really turns out that all this debate is in vain, that MPs serve as a machine that has to accept this budget. We simply have to accept the financial plans of the ministries, and the minister himself is not willing to accept at least some of these amendments to the opposition. I would point out that we have 108 amendments. All government opinions are negative. MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, MP groups of minorities and Vojvodina have proposed several amendments. We are still hoping that during these days we will get the opportunity to convince Mr. Secretary and that he will eventually come out for this pay phone and say he accepts this amendment. As you've heard, we're looking for 10 million dinars to operate the dorms. The second sub-admand under this amendment concerns the amount of 28 million dinars intended for the construction, maintenance, emergency recovery and reconstruction of religious facilities of traditional churches and religious communities of national minorities. We believe that these amounts are not so large that, as the explanation puts it, they would compromise the normal functioning of the ministries. Once again, I ask Mr. Minister, if possible, to accept this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14502	According to the amendment, MP Riza Halimi called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14503	Then I'll ask for word from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14504	No, it can't. You asked for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14505	Then I will support the amendments proposed by my fellow MPs in the direction of improving the draft budget. I think it will be possible, when it comes to the student standard fund, that at least this way, with 10 million, this problem is being considered more seriously, that Albanians can also begin to make something more serious than the funds from this fund, because at present absolutely no money from the student standard fund, nor students in secondary education do. The adoption of this amendment opens up the possibility of taking this issue more seriously in the future. I would like to say a few words about the national co-ordination body discussion, which Đuric pointed out here, quite unfounded, and those discussions and proposals radically to abolish this service and the Coordination Body. This is in support of not knowing the initial essence of the existence of the Coordination Body, because it is not on a national basis, but is included in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, both because of extreme underdevelopment and because of the serious consequences of these municipalities during the armed conflicts. The additional engagement of both governments at the time was thought to improve living conditions in the area. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14506	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th, 57 amendments were submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14507	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the most important laws, if not most importantly, is the draft budget law, from which I, as an MP of the SRS, do not expect much, and unfortunately neither do the citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, I filed the amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It concerns Article 6th Section 57, main programme/project 2007-05, function 960, economic classification 621 - purchase of domestic financial assets. I ask this amendment, although I do not expect this to change and it says: 450 - subsidies. The argument to submit this amendment is that it is necessary to start real budget financing. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia daily works to pass laws, debates are being held, amendments are being submitted, and these laws, as well as this bill, make Serbian citizens happy, bring something better, and we have this feeling that throughout our country citizens are looking forward, because the government has proposed that the Assembly adopt something that is in the interests of Serbian citizens. But that's not there. I'm a little vaguely motivated by those who are proposing a budget law. Each state lives on taxes, on budgets, on what citizens give budgets, and it is not disputed, however, the state should be managed by people who love the country, who care about it, about its interests and, most importantly, about the interests of citizens. Is the government complicated, how many governments do we have? As far as I know, I'm a little informed, we have three: one is Kostunica, one is Dinkic, one is Djelic's... (President: One government, please, one joint government. Yes, they're not very complicated to me. I'm having a bit of a discussion about Dinkic and Djelic's relationship. Something's wrong with me. That's a little bit of what the citizens of Serbia are worried about. God wants to bless successful citizens, he wants a house with a style, and where there's no style, you know... What will it be in 2008, what will be the standard of citizens with all the turbulence in the financial sphere? The NIS actions, what you are offering and what should be a colorful lie for the citizens of Serbia, and most likely is the motivation of campaigns for the presidential election, so when the NIS sales arrive, then we will share it to the citizens, but they will not get it right away, but they will get retroactively etc. Most Serbian citizens have already recognised that they should not believe this colorful lie. Mladjan Dinkic's destructive policy in the financial sphere, the agency; not once did the Serbian Radical Party talk about agencies and oppose the concept. We think it's excessive, unnecessary, that it's not rational. The state apparatus should be rational, efficient, fast, but thrifty. The state must not be together, on the burden of its tax collectors. Normally, agencies are also privileged, they have a monopoly in business, some of the agencies have gone rogue; neither is the government that their founder has no control over them, and in the government itself business is not available to the public, as you would say - it is not transparent. We have a Privatisation Agency, and, let's say, when there's a problem at the bar, when the company comes into the privatisation process, when the workers realize what's ahead of them, what fate, they're going to fight and they're asking for someone at the Privatisation Agency... I know a lot of cases like that, one I want to point out. When those poor people get together, get buses and get their hopes up in that agency that someone will take them in, human to listen to them, and possibly fight for their fate and their children's fate, then the man from the Agency says - you shouldn't have come, you'd better have a beer there in your town than you came to Belgrade. As an MP, I come from Smederov and I know about the current situation at the Iron Train Vehicles Factory where the workers have been on strike for the 26th day. They dispute the privatisation process, quotes many criminal affairs, and criminal charges have been filed, and this has also led to the Committee on Presentations and Proposals. Then the Privatisation Agency, the Privatisation Committee, and the Privatisation Agency was involved in the affair, participated in the affair. One of the smart people said - the moral law in me and the starry sky on me. That sounds nice, but the actors, the political exponents of the government have very little to do with morals, almost nothing, and it sounds familiar to me – what we need morals, what we need ethic, who doesn't need to look for it in life, go to church, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the big problems in the city where I come from is the Sartid, which Mr. Vlahovic sold so nicely, nice money, a nice commission, but you won't be able to see these photos, not to poison the citizens, but it's a disaster, no more trees there, no more green, it's drying, and children of a year are getting asthma. These are expensive filters, the government has no money, and it cannot force US Steel to comply with the basic laws in Serbia. If the government doesn't have the money, we could borrow a loan from Djelic, from those 11m euros, so we could do something. Mr. Cvetkovic, you are the head of this draft budget law. Every waterman thinks that grain exists just because the mill turns to him. Your mill, Mr Cvetkovic, will turn around, but only until the moment, when, by the will of Serbian citizens, the Serbian Radical Party does not take over the leadership of Serbia and form a government, so that the people of Serbia are managed by the hosts, patriots who love their country above all else and their people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14508	Is anyone else picking up? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not responded before, but the amendment of MP Dragan Colic has encouraged me to point to a bad practice in the work of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Albianic, take care of what I'm about to say that this practice would not continue. (President: There is also the chairman of the Legislative Committee, so he can listen to criticism. It would be good, Mr. Albianic, if you would listen to me for a moment so that this debate would finally be stopped. It's simply not in accordance with the Constitution. It is unacceptable to argue that the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the Budgetary System Act. We are discussing, as far as I know, the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. In Article 105, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that individual laws, or other decisions made by the National Assembly, are made by an absolute majority of votes. In the legal systems of certain democratic states, there is a concept of so-called organic laws. These are laws that are passed by a stricter majority than so-called. ordinary laws. You have such laws, say, in the Republic of France. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has about taken over the principle, however, does not say that these are organic laws, but it is clear that there are laws that have more legal power than ordinary laws, as the constitution prescribes an absolute majority for their adoption. Therefore, Article 105 states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by majority of the votes of all MPs, therefore, by absolute majority, decides on the laws to be governed: referendum and national initiatives, the enjoyment of individual and collective rights of members of national minorities, the development plan and the spatial plan, public borrowing, the territory of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the conclusion and validation of international contracts and other issues identified by the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution does not say that the Law on the Budgetary System also falls within that category of organic laws requiring the majority of votes of all MPs. It is unacceptable that the reason for the refusal of amendments is that the amendment is not in line with the Budgetary System Act when the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Act are equally legal. Right there's that principle that the subsequent law abolishes the former. So if there is no agreement between the two laws, the one that was later passed has an advantage over the law that was passed earlier. That principle should be applied. The Legislative Committee can possibly say that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution, and that would be fine because the Constitution is an act of greater legal force than the budget law, but that the amendment is not accepted because the amendment is not in line with some other law that we are not at all discussing, simply from a legal point of view. Therefore, I would draw attention to the Legislative Committee to suspend, or suspend, such practice in the future, to rely solely on the law on which the amendment is submitted and to keep in mind whether this amendment is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, possibly, whether it is in accordance with any of these laws prescribed by the Constitution to be adopted by an absolute majority of the votes of the MPs. Otherwise, from the constitutional point of view, it is not acceptable to say that the amendment is not accepted because it is not in accordance with some other law, which we are not currently discussing here at all, with both law and law being the same legal force. Here I call upon you, Mr Albianic, to draw attention to the MPs of the ruling parties who are on the Legislative Committee to break this practice, because there is no basis for this under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept amendments to the SRS because they are not in accordance with some other law that the National Assembly is currently not discussing at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14510	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14511	What is true is what respected counterpart Martinovic said, there is a constitutional provision on qualified majority in the adoption of certain laws, but it is not only organic or systemic laws that are passed by qualified majority. In our legal order, there is a larger number of so-called. systematic or organic laws which are not passed by qualified majority, i.e. by a majority of 126 MPs designated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have a specific situation here, we discussed on the Legislative Committee on this formulation. In a certain way, the Law on the Budgetary System is an organic law, and the Law on Budgets is, I say, a collokual, derivative law, that is, it must comply with the Law on the Budgetary System, as an organic law. This particular formulation was given for MPs and for the public. In the report of the Legislative Committee, we went to a qualification, or assessment that it was not in agreement with the Constitution, but with a concrete legal standard from a concrete member. In a particular case, this is a matter of Article 26. Budgetary system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14512	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14513	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, constitutional norms are imperative. The Legislative Committee cannot say – in addition to the organic laws, which are explicitly mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, there are some other laws that we consider to be organic. The constitution made it clear what the laws of organic character are, i.e. what laws are passed by an absolute majority of the votes of all MPs. The Legislative Committee cannot supplement the Constitution in this sense to say – what it says in the Constitution is not final, we believe that some other laws in the Republic of Serbia have an organic character and therefore we assess whether the amendments are not only in accordance with the Constitution but also in accordance with these organic laws. So you can consider the Budgetary System Law to be a system law, and from the name of the law, it undoubtedly is, but it is not the same system law and organic law. I must note that the ruling majority MPs in this coalition often mix some concepts. For example, when we discussed the Law on the President of the Republic, which for all citizens of Serbia was undoubtedly systemic, there were remarks here that it was a law of technical character; then the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic was a technical character, so the Law on the Army was a technical character, all technical laws themselves. Now that the Republic of Serbia's budget has been discussed suddenly, the Law on the Budgetary System is system law and now it is estimated not only whether the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, which is logical, but whether it is in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, and the debate on the Budgetary System Act was concluded a few days ago, and we are now talking about the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. So it is really unacceptable for the Legislative Committee to say that, in addition to those laws specifically mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which require most votes from all MPs, there are some other organic laws that the Legislative Committee claims to be organic. Therefore, such interpretation is not in line with the current Constitution and such practice should indeed be abolished. Not to mention, Mr. Ratkovic, that the government, whose minister here, has violated the same Bill on the Budgetary System because it failed to pass the budget law in time to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today is December 19th, St. Nicholas, and the budget law was to be passed on December 15th. On the other hand, you transfer SRS MPs that their amendments are unacceptable because they are allegedly not in accordance with the Law of the Abroad System. So, first of all, start from your threshold, explain to your ministers that they should be the first ones to follow what is in the law, especially what those same ministers have proposed. Indeed, it is unacceptable for someone else to call for deadlines when the government itself does not adhere to the deadlines set itself in its own bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14514	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Please resolve this question on the Legislative Committee. We continue to discuss the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the position of the Legislative Committee when it comes to harmonising amendments of Members of Parliament with the Constitution. But I would ask the gentlemen of the Legislative Committee not to get involved in what they don't know. Mr. Vlatko, the next time you evaluate whether the amendments to the SRS are in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, get one digitron, a lot of paper, a few pencils and start counting. You'll see, when all the amendments to the SRS add and subtract in positions, they're in line with the Budgetary System Act; the balance is zero, exactly how an accounting law should be brought in, one final account, one order for simple booking. You don't know that, so I'm asking you to just stick to the Constitution next time, and let us from the Finance Committee assess whether there's something in line with the Budget System Act or not, because we know we're doing it. Why is that? Because by changing the Rules of Procedure and all other institutions of the People's Parliament, you have reduced them to MPs' groups. When you wanted to do so, you must also accept the fact that the SRS parliamentary group is working as one team and such an act. Your problem is that if you accept one amendment from Article 1 to Article 6 you must accept all other amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. That's what the catch is. Several times the entire laws fell because you were quick to refuse, so you saw in the end that some amendment was really acceptable to you, you acknowledged it, and then you withdrew the entire laws from the procedure, because the government of the Republic of Serbia in advance refused any objections to the SRS. That's your problem since you came to power. I can't help you with that, but I'm distracting you, and I turned to the minister, and then Dinkic was in 2004... (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: That thief? That thief. (President: Please, Mr Arsic, do not listen to Mr Todorovic. ) I drew attention to the Minister with a sock on his head that he was no longer doing it; the government was checking our amendments, seeing that they were in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System and no longer making such remarks. Please hold on to it in the future. Check it out, no problem, but I guarantee the balance will be zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14516	I'm really asking you not to spread the story but to solve it on the board and not to have any more problems like this. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, the 57 amendments were submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, the 58 amendments were submitted by the MP Lasslo Varga. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14517	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just over a year ago a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in. I'd like to read Article 87's point of view. The constitution: "The property of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the way it is used and available are regulated by law. "Therefore, the Constitution provides for the obligation to adopt this law, and this procedure means, the transfer of property to an autonomous province and local self-government (over which the autonomous province and local self-government at the moment have the right to use, which is state-owned), will surely require certain funds. There is a draft law on the property of local self-government and the law provides for certain means to implement the law. So, I think it is undeniable that if this process takes place, a lot of funding will be needed, and no funds for the 2008 budget for the implementation of the procedure for the return of the province's property to local self-government. We have therefore proposed an amendment aimed at providing for the amount of 20 million dinars for the implementation of these laws, which will regulate the way of use and the availability of assets of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in line with the quoted position of the member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We suggested that later this year there should be no excuse not to carry out this procedure because there is simply no funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You refused, of course, and this amendment. In the part that you refused, which relates to the reduction of expenditure, we suggested that the reduction of expenditure in the description Development and other programmes in the field of local self-government, and you refused the amendment in the explanation wrote that the funds defined for this programme were funds from the grant of special gambling appropriations and their purposes were strictly laid down by law and therefore cannot be allocated for other purposes. The law on gambling states that 20% of these funds are allocated to local self-government. So that's what the law says. We've just suggested that some of these funds be directed to local self-government, i.e. for the return of property to local self-government. You, on the one hand, reject this amendment and, on the other hand, do not plan to implement this procedure simply in advance know that in 2008, you will violate the Constitution, that you will not pass the law and will not return the property to the Autonomous province and local self-government. I think it's another good piece of evidence why we MPs of the Alliance of Duke Hungarians didn't vote for the government's election; and then we argued, and now we claim that decentralisation is one of the last priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14518	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Yeah. ( ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14519	Representatives of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina support the amendment of our colleague from the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians. Knowing how it is done in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we believe that when the agenda comes, the adoption and implementation of the Law on the return of property to local self-governments and autonomous provinces will be very possible excuses spoken of by MP Varga; one excuse may be the lack of funds for the return of property to local self-governments and autonomous provinces. In that sense, the amendment is very good and I think this could be one of those amendments that would be accepted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As long as I'm here, I'll only use 30 seconds to say something about another kind of property. There are co-workers from Mr. Minister, if he's not here, they can pass it on to Minister Dragan Jocic. Namely, we from the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, sent a letter (of course, signed by the President of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, Bojan Kostreš) to Police Minister Dragan Jocic, asking to form a special working group at the Ministry of Interior to examine all the details of privatisation and bankruptcy of the grain processing plant Bek. Zrenjanci, the citizens of Vojvodina and many citizens of the Republic of Serbia are familiar with all aspects of the privatisation of this once very successful grain slaughterhouse, one of the export leaders of the 1970s and 1980s in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that only the formation of a special task force at the Ministry of the Interior could solve a number of abuses, financial malfeasances, illegal alienation of property and similar violations. The co-workers of the minister wrote this down anyway, and I think your authority can influence Minister Dragan Jocic to form this task force. Finally, once again, we support the amendment of Ambassador Lassla Varge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14520	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, fellow Members Marko Milenkovic submitted an amendment to Article 8 which reads - in article 8 per cent 1% is replaced by 5%, and after the word "pay" is replaced by a point and the rest of the text is deleted. In the 2008 draft budget law, and the only thing he guarantees to our citizens is the privatisation sale of our inheritance, the taking of new loans, the increase in external debt and the destruction of their future, is a particularly poor proposed member, where a percentage of the total amount of the salary funds is determined for the results achieved by the tenant's work and 1% of the monthly payment fund for the month preceding the month for which the salary is paid, and for the Government's Joint Affairs Office of the Republical Authorities and the Government's Air Service of 15% of the monthly payment fund. When you hear something like this you can't react and you don't make an amendment to correct this kind of formulation, or this kind of projection of the 2008 budget. Why does the Government favour employees of the Government's Joint Affairs Office of the Republic's Authorities, employed in the Government's Air Force? Because the entire leadership, headed by President Tadic, uses air services. Last year, only Minister Vuk Jeremic flew over 23 times. If he had flown more than that, but had at least had the results of his cooperation as a minister of foreign affairs in the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija and the resolution of the state's problems, there would be nothing controversial. Also, Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic flew to the Canary Islands last year, and only one departure cost more than 20,000 euros to Serbian citizens. One flight "falcon 50" costs 1,800 euros and staying overnight costs 860 euros to Serbian citizens. Due to all these privileges and the use of Air Services and all services listed in this Article 8, there is a big difference, so the government separates 15% for employees working in the Air Service and for other workers working in the state administration only 1%. As a result, counterpart Marko Milenkovic submitted this amendment to point out a huge difference in the allocation of funds for their payment fund and to correct the irregularity. I suggest, on behalf of the SRS and colleagues, Mark Milenkovic, that you accept this amendment and correct the error you made in the 2008 budget projection.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14522	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Albianic, I understand that you will vote in favour of this amendment by Serbian Radical Party MP Marko Milenkovic. If I have followed you well, and I have, and I have, and your pledge as vice president of the National Assembly, it seems to me that a little more than a month ago you came out and asked for a similar solution from the assembly booth. You advocate, as vice-president of the Assembly and as a National MP, that the position of officials and deputies be better, because the law voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is bad and because you know that these people, who contact you, as well as all of us, live extremely hard. It is inappropriate for privileged officials in the joint administration or in the Air Force, as counterpart Valjarevic said, and Marko Milenkovic wrote in the amendment, to have 15 times the salary, to behave in a boastful manner, that this range is 1:10 or 20. And not to mention other public enterprises, which has already been exposed by Dragan Todorovic as chairman of the Administrative Board, what salaries are of officials with the same qualification in these companies, that I am not talking about directors and flight control, Elektroprivredje, about NIS. Just to talk about the Air Service and the joint administration and why such a discriminatory relationship. Mr. Minister, if you think that your driver, therefore, the one who takes care of your safety, should have a salary of 18 grand, and in that 20 years and over, and you have a salary of over 100,000 dinars, I don't even know what your salary is, then let it serve you honor. Or, that officials in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who also have over 20 years of employment, have a salary of 21 thousand, and that others are privileged to have three times the salary. Then every employee wonders... Well, it's not how the cradle swings, it's how it fell on who. You know, someone's born into a poor family and they're struggling, so they're schooling, so many people from the village, from different parts, from humble families, they reach calling and education, some others don't, but they work honestly and honestly, and this is about typical discrimination with the government's decision. I'll tell you about the situation that happened yesterday. Yesterday, my colleague Jadranko Vukovic, Dr Cvetanović and my little one-day experience, following the approval of Mrs Tamara, since it was our official departure, went to Serbia's Sarajevo, or eastern Sarajevo, in Lukavica; there was a tragic event for our party, we lost an honorary member, who was buried in a cemetery in Lukavica yesterday. The driver of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who is almost 30 years of employment, in one day, has, with care for his safety, but has also driven three MPs, come a distance of 780km, and that man has no 20,000 dinars of salary. Is that normal for you? Then how come you don't accept... And in the snow like that and the weather like it was yesterday, and we had to leave in the middle of the night before, yesterday to do it and go back to Belgrade late last night. That's not right, Mr. Minister, because the law has brought them to the lowest possible branches. Just go around the congregation building and talk to the officers and the tenants. Every day you use, like us, Mr. Minister, and your associate, the possibility of having lunch at the National Assembly restaurant. Have you asked those people down there who maybe make 500 meals a day, I don't know how many, 250 MPs, so how many employees, so how many journalists... Look at these people, all of them have medium professional equipment, those who work, and those who are in the boss place, which in the restaurant or as chef of the kitchen, probably more education, and how many years of internships; their salaries are 16 thousand dinars. They try every day to be maximum service, correct to the people who come there, and the state officials, or employees, and to do their job best and within a short period of time. We don't think that's right and that you had to do otherwise, to transfer the budget, the position in the items, to help these people. Because for such a responsible job that they do honest and hardworking people who spend their whole lives in government bodies (then how are you going to disrupt a young man), they are not rewarded but punished. It's a kind of social aid, if you look, because they don't have strictly working time. Someone will say, and of course, the hardest thing is for those who don't have a job, and those are over a million in Serbia. I have to tell you that these people, I've just counted some, don't have strict hours. You'll say, they're paid overtime. Little tomorrow they're getting paid, it's about 100 or 200 dinars, I don't know how much; when these associates of ours who work as technical people at Parliament clubs or vice presidents' offices have had hours of overtime, that's a few hundred dinars in a month. They don't ask questions, they're all loyal, they all want to work in a state institution, they all work for the state, first of all, but it really doesn't make sense. That is why it was necessary for you to correct this injustice and accept the amendment of your colleague Milenkovic; to find another solution if you will not accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical, but to help these people, because it is their further survival and existence that is at stake. Mr. Minister, although they are aware that they are doing a responsible state job, they are in some way demoralizing coming to work. They know they'll do it professionally and try not to make any mistakes, but imagine what their life is like when they live in difficult conditions and work for such pay, and yet the responsibility on them and the work they all do is serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14524	Yes, Miss Jovanovic, I advocate that the position of officials in the state administration be better, I also point out drivers, the position must certainly be improved. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14525	Ladies and gentlemen, an entire member of the budget law, a member of the amendment of MP Mark Milenkovic, aims only one thing - to show the government of the Republic of Serbia so that it saves the money of Serbian citizens. Save it where the least money can be spent. What's the problem? Since the arrival of DOS to power since 5 October in various public enterprises, for example, they have introduced a restriction on the admission of workers into a working relationship. However, things have changed quite a bit since 2000, i.e. in 2001 by the end of 2007, and you have to agree. Of course, public companies that work have needs for new workers. However, the government of Serbia's regulation remains the same, new workers cannot accept in a working relationship. I wondered why they insisted on it. I'll make an example of Jugopetrol. The same is true of the government's regulation, they can't accept new workers in a working relationship. They submitted a request for the systematization of jobs that does not involve new workers, however, have now come into the situation that they cannot sell fuel, because there are no ordinary manners at gas stations. There's a problem and abuse in that part. Since they cannot accept new workers, they are resorting to something else – some kind of cooperative is being hired to give in to workers who will work for "Yugopetrol", i.e. the NIS manipulative network. What does that look like now? There is only one house for all Serbia and all gas stations. Should I tell you what this firm's name is? "Safety" the Wizard. Look at the wonders, the neighbors of DS, just the neighbors. No one else, just DS. Now look at the following situation: so, a thousand and more workers working for Jugopetrol are paid through the "Safety" Vrachar cooperative, and let's say it's okay, however, it's not, because their salary is twice as low as the salaries of their colleagues working at Jugopetrol. Where's the difference? He's taking the "safety" of the Sorceress. That's how the government of the Republic of Serbia does it, that's how the NIS does it. Count now, thousands of workers, about 15,000 dinars a month, that's 15 million. So 15 million "Safety" Vrachar puts in his pocket thanks to the accident of Serbian citizens. Who's helping with that? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Who's realizing it? Director of NIS. Who splits the money? Probably both members of the government and director of the NIS, and also owners of the company "Safety" Vračar is not bad. Someone can't tell me that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NIS couldn't solve this problem and resolve the status of those persons in "Yugopetrol". They could, the same money and today, give Jugopetrol to these workers as if they were in a working relationship. But then you couldn't have the "safety" Witch cooperative earning it. That's the problem with you gentlemen. Don't put up with these fake members anymore. These limits you're making, these are relatively small savings compared to all the abuses you give yourself the right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14526	The National MP, Dr Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 11th Amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me also be allowed to congratulate the citizens of Serbia who celebrate today the glory of St. Nicholas, this significant holiday. Of course, I regret that we have to discuss this budget this day. This debate is taking place in a certain way, and it seems to me that it is somewhat in the shadow of other events that are happening to us on a political and social stage. There are three major events that may be throwing a little bit into the shadows and this budget debate of ours. These are the developments concerning Kosovo; this is certainly and brilliant defence of Mr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, which he establishes the right measure of things and, of course, the election for the President of the Republic, where Serbian citizens are given the opportunity to correct some things that have gone wrong. In front of the Serbian Radical Party, I tabled an amendment to Article 11. I'll be free to read article 11, which is very short. It says in this article: "Direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets that use business space in the state property of budget users and in general or in part are financed by budget and business space in the state property of users of the budgets of autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities do not pay rent in 2008. "What did we now propose by amendment? We believe it should be added after Article 1 of the new position 2, which reads: "The use of the business space in the state property of the 1st article is carried out according to the annual plan of use that the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivers to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption and it is an integral part of the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's budget. "We gave a very short explanation – we think it is necessary to start rational use of the business space in the state property. We've all been witnesses since 2000, if we follow the events, there's been a whole series of abuses regarding this business space owned by the state. I'll explain that later on on specific examples. On the other hand, we are now faced with an already worrying phenomenon of increasing the administrative state apparatus, with the story of rationalising the service, going to a cheap state, which is a flossula that certainly does not stand. What do we have now that this administration has started to spread aggressively and occupy these premises? In later presentations, I will give a typical example of health care. Before I move on to a more detailed explanation of this amendment of ours, I'd like to look back on two things. It is interesting that Minister Cvetkovic is here neatly present, we must say that he is following with due attention what we are saying; on the other hand, it is evident that he is not giving answers to the questions we are asking him, which are crucial. In principle, I asked two key health care issues. I didn't get the answer. Namely, the health situation of our people is difficult, the people are more ill, the people are dying more than they were dying by 2000. We have the white plague and the biological integrity of the nation has been destroyed. Every year 30,000 are less born, or 30,000 die more than they are born. We're biologically disappearing from this space. This government demonstrates through this budget that it considers investment in health spending. All developed countries of Europe and the world invest in health care at least 8% of gross national income. I put those figures here in the debate in principle. Developed countries, Germany, France - 10% and America 16.6%. In America, $6,600 per capita is allocated annually. Now, look, this government's goal is strategic -- to cut out of gross national income for healthcare from 6.4% to 5.9%. That, believe me, is something that is absolutely not allowed. I'd like a comment from the minister. He did not comment on our point of direct violation of the law through these items given at the Ministry of Health, through various projects. I ask again, and I want to be answered, how can capital donations to compulsory social security organisations be allowed through this budget, and to be said in the explanation - building, investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions? How can a donation be given to the insurance company so that it invests in ongoing investment maintenance and construction work, when it is the responsibility of the institution? You know who that is. It's the state of Serbia. We don't have the answers to the key questions we've been asking here. We also pointed out how it was possible for abuse to be done, to talk, say, about the disease prevention program caused by tobacco consumption; then it says nicely in this program that the resources for the procurement of scanners at the children's clinic are allocated. Answer, please, how can you put it in this budget and think it's okay? That's something I had to say before. Interestingly, counterpart Dimitrijevic of the SPS parliamentary group spoke a lot about health care. Now a man would say, it's not a place, we're discussing the budget. Why is he talking? We have nowhere else to talk about the torments of Serbian citizens when it comes to health policy. The Assembly Health Committee does not discuss this. The Assembly Health Committee has become a manifestation field where the minister and a certain category of non-governmental people are advertised. At the last session of the Assembly Committee, you had a complete fiasco, the topic was health policy and child health care. The participation took up 20 people from various institutions and organisations, and in the middle of the debate, when we counted who was present from the Committee members, we had three, imagine that – the chairman and two members of the SRS, who otherwise did not participate in the work. The entire board's fiasco! What we've been pointing to is why we don't participate in the work and we won't participate; this committee doesn't do its job, it protects the Minister of Health, and it's become a tribune where all we have to do is Glorify his work, and the work isn't good. But to go back to the subject itself, and the subject is this amendment. Why did we suggest that each year the Government makes a proposal to the Assembly to use the business space? The business space is managed by the Republic of Serbia State Property Directorate. It is said that this directorate has no record of all state-owned assets. What we know is that in Belgrade you have 250,000 m2 of that space. It's interesting that there's no nationalized property in the description of that space, it's nationalized in the 1950s, but you only have what was built and what was obtained afterwards. It is interesting that you have 10m euros each year from the issue of this business space in Belgrade alone, which is spent on current costs. Under the new Law on Local Self-Government, this will be used for investment and infrastructure. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. There are 1450 tenants here. So, significant assets come true here. I'm just going to remind you of a few known affairs, which suggest that you should treat that space in a better, domestic way. On December 25th 2001, Mr Dinkic gave Study B 3,400 m2 of space in New Belgrade. How much was the lease - 1.280,000, which means monthly 4.3 euros per m2, and at that location, space is issued, it is known, for far larger funds – from 20 to 30 euros per m2. What does that mean? The state of Serbia lost 70,000 euros per month and lost 1 million at an annual level. It's a serious abuse. That's what we ordered. Nobody cares about that. If you just remind yourself of the PDO's premises, how they're divided by commercial banks, in a natural way, they say, well, we take up rooms and share those rooms with commercial banks that are now established here, but here, the workers of these banks will be taken over as a counterservice. To remind you, just remember the crimes in Subotica that were accused of Mr. Kasu and Mr. Agosten. It's said that 200 bars simply disappeared from the file. Let me remind you that 20 criminal charges have been filed. And the Resistance has filed a criminal report for the disappearance or release of Kasa, the First Entrepreneurial Bank of premises of state-owned companies, of course Magnochrom. It's familiar stuff. That's what it's written about. If you're watching how the Jugoagent was sold for 151 million dinars, then you'll see that it was left out of business space in Skopje, Cyprus, Rijeka, Zadar, Dubrovnik, it simply didn't exist, but that space was later sold. Whoever took the money is a big question mark. Now I could sort out a whole series of these cases where abuse was committed. To return to the field of health and to what is controversial. The state of Serbia, and in Belgrade, has 250,000 m2 of business space. Let me remind you of the SIV buildings, SIV I, SIV II, SIV III, where the rooms boil empty, have no specific purpose, nor do certain contents occur there. Although we have these premises that are entirely dedicated to management, we find out that a new security office building is being built, which has its own premises. In the shortages that we now have, when the insurance office is showing losses, of course the finance minister is guilty, not to allocate enough funds, allegedly according to point 22) of the law, will not send the necessary money and is already losing the office, the office is now building on the location of Dragisa Misovic hospital a brand-new administrative building. What is even worse, the institution, which had 60 employees in 2000 and did its job normally, now has 200 employees and has announced that it is receiving 300 new administrative workers this year. What's this about? Where are the answers? We're looking for answers to all that. What we have received in response, I will conclude, he says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 11 regulates issues related to budget implementation, in the sense that the beneficiaries of the budgets using the business space in the state property do not pay the rent. "We know that, we're not idiots. What do you convince the contents of Article 11? "For this reason it could not be accepted to install a provision under which the plan for the use of the business space is determined by the government and to be an integral part of the budget law as such. "This doesn't first come from the second, this second doesn't come from the first, it's basic logic. Then goes what you may consider primary: "The proposed provision is contrary to Article 10. The law on the budgetary system establishing the content of the budget law. "Now Mr. Martinovic has explained nicely to you what this is about. Again, if you look at Article 10... I was quoting this in two strokes, so you can say no to me and I'm done. If you look at article 10 you're referring to... Here, the minister got presents and he's very pleased, probably more important than what we're talking about, but it doesn't matter. In this article 10, which you are calling on, or these co-workers of yours, is said in one section – a particular part of the budget includes the financial plans of direct beneficiaries of the budget according to the principle of dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. We think that this is an opportunity to deliver such a plan and be an integral part of the budget system, and plus what Martinovic explained to you well, it is far more legally strong and more content. Therefore, we will not vote for this budget, but we appeal to you, engage a little bit and give some essential answers. This budget is, I can say freely, an unnatural budget, because it directly affects the health of peoples and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14528	Replica, MP Balint Pastor. BALINT PASTOR: Mr. President, Mr. Momchilov, you mentioned that Mr. Joseph Kasa and Mr. Andras Agošton, in your opinion, committed some crimes, that they committed some criminal acts. I would like to tell you, Mr. Momchilov, that, first of all, that is not true, and secondly, if you have certain evidence that Mr. Kasa or Mr. Agostton have committed any criminal acts, you must, as a citizen, file criminal charges against them. Mr. Kasa and Mr. Agoston are not convicted of any crime, so it is not good that the assembly speaker is being abused, that certain people are being muddled, because it is not correct. Once again, I'd like to tell you, if you have certain evidence that Kasa and Agošton have committed some criminal acts, file a report, and the court will judge whether or not they have committed such acts. On the other hand, the president, or chairman, should have warned you that certain people should not be defiled from the assembly booths without any evidence. The National Assembly is no place to discuss these topics. Secondly, Mr. President, if I don't report back to the Rules of Procedure, I'll be very brief. It's not good that I'm gonna do it after these words, but let me tell you one more time, I'm not answering again. I would like to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who celebrate the glory of St. Nicholas today. I'd like to ask Mr. President, since we don't have that information, whether the National Assembly will work on December 24th and 25th, it's Christmas Day and the first day of Catholic Christmas, as they say. That, of course, isn't just Catholic Christmas, there are a lot of citizens, and there are MPs celebrating that Christmas. I'd like to ask Mr. President of the National Assembly, I have a very constructive proposal to make 24. 12 works till 15 o'clock, as is done today, and yes 25. 12. The National Assembly is not working so that we MPs can celebrate this great holiday at home with our families, as all citizens should do. I would ask Mr. President to answer this question. Since we heard in the Assembly that you were planning, Mr. President, that the Assembly is working both 24 and 25, I have to tell you that wouldn't be good, it didn't work 10 or 15 years ago. If you think the National Assembly is to work, the National Assembly of the 24th will not work, you will see only three MPs being obstructed. We will read the Rules of Procedure from members to members, if you think the Assembly should work 24 and 25. I sincerely hope it doesn't come to that. I don't want to abuse my parliamentary right, but I think it'd be okay if we worked 24 till 15 o'clock, and 25 that the assembly didn't work. Thank you very much, and I'm asking Mr. Dulic for an answer. Do you want to work or are you going to obstruct? If it's 24th and 25th, then come work, and if you don't want to work, you have the right to celebrate. Like the people who celebrate St. Nicholas today, they have the right to celebrate. We can make a deal, it's all a matter of agreement, as we agreed today, given that this is the greatest glory. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate the citizens on behalf of all of you, so that people don't go out and congratulate St. Nicholas anymore. Let's sit down and talk about how we're going to work. We are in a period that has many holidays, and we are also in a period when we have many congregation activities. If you tell me how to solve the problem we have, which is that we have to finish the debate on the existing laws, to pass the laws in order to call elections in local self-governments and rural elections, and we have to discuss Kosovo, and we have to end all of this in the next five days without working 24 and 25, if you find a way for me I'll be very happy. Any threat to obstruction is totally unacceptable. You have the right to obstruct, but then you'll have the opportunity to see how we respond to that kind of obstruction. Please, just one thing. So, we'll sit down and we'll make a deal. Be assured that I respect the Catholic Christmas and Christmas Day, as I respect all other holidays celebrated by the citizens of this country, but on the other hand you have to realize that this is an institution that has to work. So, Catholic Christmas is a state holiday; tomorrow is Kurban Bayram, and that is a state holiday, but we agreed to work tomorrow by allowing people who celebrate Kurban Bayram to celebrate. So, in the same way that it was made possible for the MPs of the Muslim religion to celebrate the Kurban Bayram, and that the Assembly is working, I guess we'll settle this, and we can agree on that. Anyway, I'm asking you first of all to understand. It's very difficult to organize work by the end of the year in this period, but you must have understanding. That's a concrete answer, and now I'm going to give you a chance to answer. BALINT PASTOR: Mr. President, I think I made a very constructive proposal that reads like this: that 24 December is working until 15 o'clock so that everyone who celebrates 24 and 25 December Christmas can be home by 18 or 19 o'clock in the evening, so that they can celebrate Christmas Eve with their families without working on December 25th. Of course, I can accept what you said, that those who celebrate are not obliged to work, but, as you know, SVM takes the job of the National Assembly very seriously. We certainly want to participate in the work. I think it would be very good that one day, on December 25th, the National Assembly does not work, and on December 24th we only work until 15 o'clock, as the Assembly is doing today. Simply, it would not be good for the congregation to work on December 25, because then we would not be able to participate in the work, and perhaps there will be some very important legal proposals on the agenda. We also want to say about the law on local self-government, and the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia and other very important laws. As for what you said, Mr. President, that the Assembly must carry out very important tasks by the end of the year, we are aware of that, but I don't think these very important tasks will be carried out because of that one day off - December 25th. We all know very well that the Assembly has not worked for three months to form a government. It's not anybody else, it's DS, DSS and G17 plus guilty of what took three months. On the other hand, we are all aware that Serbia is the only country in Europe in whose parliament the ruling parties are sometimes obstructing. That's inadmissible. We had several cases that the ruling parties were obstructing when they did not want to vote on certain legal proposals until you promised them that some other legal proposals would be on the agenda, etc. I think it would be very democratic if the National Assembly didn't work on December 25th, simply, I don't think the laws would be passed because of that one day off. I ask you once again, Mr. President, to accept this constructive SVM proposal to be done by 15.00 on 24 December without working on December 25th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14531	I'm very sorry that Mr. Pastor's esteemed colleague misunderstood me. Mr. Pastor, I didn't muddle anyone. You didn't listen to what I was saying, you didn't listen very carefully, that's possible. I was, I hope, quite clear. I was against... Here, and Mr Batic spoke about the abuses of business space the other day. It's something that actually exists here. I called, listing a number of controversial examples and cases, on what was available in the media. I studied it well, it said that "Resistance", you know which organization, filed a criminal report just against Mr. Kasa and Mr. Agosten, and the two companies are clearly indicated: First Enterprise Bank and Magnohrom; they've got state rooms, they've acquired it and now they're using it as their own premises. I also read the reasons; the argument was -- well, they've been in those rooms for a long time, so now they've got a right to get it. So, they were kind of donated, there was no denial. That's all I've convinced, Mr. Kasa and Agosten's words, who've given an explanation in this way. I'm not saying that those 20 criminal charges that were filed stand. I didn't say that, but my intensity and reason for submitting this amendment is to prevent such phenomena as all these controversial accumulated cases, we have a bunch of mobs, so I don't pick them up now... That is why it is necessary for this parliament to have some share in the state property, of course, through the government of the Serbian state. It's just that there's no defamation, and these are the media quotes, I can give you if you don't know and you don't have them, and Mr. Kasa and Agosten's statements that they gave these to them because they thought they were here for a long time, so they could still be there. It's just that. There was no mud.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14532	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Zoran Shami, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14533	I'm reporting for what Mr. Pastor was saying earlier. We in our Rules of Procedure have a provision to respect the personality of the Members. I do not view this as just an appreciation in the sense that we must not be offended, etc., but I think it is also a matter of respecting all aspects of the individuality of the MPs. I am Orthodox, therefore, not celebrating Christmas on the Gregory calendar, but I think this congregation should respect the greatest religious festivals of all the worldly recognized religions that exist in us. I understand when the war is or is an important event that requires the congregation to work in the weather. I personally support what Mr. Pastor said and ask the President of the Assembly to consider that on Tuesday, December 25th, this assembly does not work, and also to consider that this congregation should not work on the days of the greatest religious festivals, any religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14534	I thank you, Professor Shami. We'll have a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups where we'll discuss work next week when we see what other activities are coming and then we'll know if it's going to work on December 25th. We don't all have to go out for a pay phone and say we respect what Ambassador Balint Pastor said. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14535	Dear fellow citizens, here, and on this Article 13, which is related to Article 22, all the seriousness of the work of the Government and the committees responsible for giving their views on the acceptance of an amendment is taken. Article 13 of the draft Budget Law reads: "The issuing of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out through the vault of the Republic of Serbia, which will exercise control over these expenditures, which includes managing the process of granting commitments and granting payment to the burden of budgetary resources. "Dear citizens, what looks so supplely like this can, translated into a folk language, be understood this way – in the vault, a responsible person checks whether payment orders on the burden of the budget have real accounting documentation and whether they have cover in law and in money in that budget classification. In its justification for the refusal of this amendment, the Government shall present the most unfortunate possible argument that comes down to the following: this is understood. For this to be understood, the news columns would not be full of stories about more funds being transferred to political parties than the Law on party financing and the Budget Law belonged to them. So, even though it's meant to be, in practice, that doesn't mean that whoever's in charge and responsible, and that's the vault, that's control and he's doing it. I claim, that control is not carried out and that is not understood, for two reasons. One is that the government and the Ministry do not allow budget control or final accounts; the first one was given for 2006 and we haven't talked about it since 2001, there are no final accounts, so the Assembly, which is responsible for control, is not in control. The control of the Ministry of Finance and Government itself, which submits the Republic Assembly's budget, is not legally defined, regulated and there is no criminal measure when the Government is late in submitting the draft budget law, as this year did, and for it there is no measure other than the newspaper's texts and the denomination in the press. So, the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Budgetary System Act, which is a system law and is one of the following in the debate, prescribes penalties for local self-government and all its users and funds if they do not deliver the proposal in time, if they pay something out of the budget and it has not been established or there is no accounting documentation as a basis. But for the Minister himself, the Government and the Treasury Administration, there is no such responsibility. It is precisely the amendment to this article of the law that requires that the responsibility of the vault be precisely determined and I ask that this Article 13 contains the first position that exists and that Article 2 is added, which states: "The grants to political parties will be implemented through the vault of the Republic of Serbia which will control the amount of donations in terms of their compliance with the Law on the financing of political parties and the resources set out in the Budget Law. "If you vote against attitude 2, or this amendment, you vote against parliamentaryism and against the elemental honesty that we must establish in this country. So, with this amendment, all we ask is that whoever pays the money gets a solution from you, Mr. Minister, which is an accounting document based on which you transfer money to the parties. They don't need him alone. They don't write you a letter. In order for someone to complete the warrant and give it electronically into processing and transfer it to the account of the parties, which is the document that one of you in the vault must have as a background? What are we looking for? That such an accounting document exists and that someone who receives the salary of the view - has the budget item of the money, is in line with the Funding Act. Is that a lot, or is that an elemental relationship to spending budget money? So, the political parties receiving this money, the Serbian Radical Party, on its behalf, I ask you to see before you transfer the money whether it is in accordance with the Party Finance Act and the Budget Law. What do you say - the authority of some other authorities would be questioned if you accepted this. Dear citizens, respected citizens, pure lies. There is some alleged responsibility of the Finance Committee, which controls the financing of political parties in this regard. You know what that jurisdiction is? When, for example, it is established that the Democratic Party, as established, has received 13 contributions more than the Law on the financing of political parties allows by an individual natural person, the Finance Committee may file a complaint through the competent court for the infringements to be brought into action. So now you see how possible it is that, according to the application of Jorganka Tabakovic in front of the SRS and the Committee on Finance, some court for offenses, although there is evidence for this, put the infringement in court, which, however, under the letter of the law, the Democratic Party could lose regular budget funding for the whole year. Do we write laws that make citizens dizzy and believe that we will apply them or really apply them? So this reputation of the Finance Committee you're supposed to have, because he's in charge of it, he's virtual, he's not a real influence. The Finance Committee does not have the right to directly influence any type of criminal measure for the violation of the Finance Act, and should not have any influence. The finance minister, as the key to the state register, needs to secure this control. For that there are mechanisms, for that there are professional people, for that there is a right which we MPs ask of him. This is such a realistic, normal request that we make as an amendment, and you provide an explanation that in one part is not true. And I am very pleased that my young colleague Aleksandar Martinovic has legally explained the lack of grounds for calling on the law of the same rank. I'm not entering a legal procedure that he's explained enough, I'm just going to enter the foundation of your claim. Article 26. The budget system law sort of devises the submission of amendments, but we stick to it. So, the calculator, the figures, the figures and the papers really stand behind every amendment that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted. We haven't established any rights without taking from the other side where we feel we should. We were doing this by subtracting that capitalisation of the Commercial Bank and the Post Office Savings Officer that you once received last year at the 11th month, as a technical government, with 16.5m euros while Dinkic was the finance minister. The loss of the Post Office amounted to a billion and 150 million, and you gave them a billion and 320 million dinars. So, you're covering the theft from this budget, and you can do it, and we can't take that money off that position and make it for agriculture, to make it work for the better work of the state, for those layers of the population that are really hard to live. And you're still giving an explanation that remains a document. You put lies and false things in stenographic notes, something that is the history of this congregation. So, the balance of positions in the budget, income and expenditure sides, is respected all the time, with all the other amendments that affect the amount of money allocated to certain positions. As far as this amendment is concerned, I've asked for your responsibility to be established, so that it wouldn't be possible for you to be in Article 22, which is why I'm probably going to have to call again and talk about it, you're putting a solution in which... Well, this is the most pointless thing, after this capitalization, I've read. You in Article 22, which is about what I'm talking about, you're writing that the political parties that in 2007 and earlier years spent the funds defined by the law... There she came herself to political parties, they spent defined... You know, "all," that return deputy "all" indicates there's no perpetrator. No, nothing happens on its own. Some people work, make mistakes, write deliberately or unintentionally, but there's no fault or party error here. You're saying that those who spent it, the specified funds in that and earlier years, and didn't come back, should be returned. Retroactiveness, by the Constitution guaranteed, with a special explanation when it gets in the early years, Mr. Minister, is a very serious matter. You're introducing a three-year budget because it's world fashion and practice for advances. Well, you've improved that fashion to put the budget back three years, to get the parties back what they didn't ask for, and what you are, and that's now the cake cream, the budget, the 2006 final bill, you didn't say it was exceeded. Position on page 128 of the final account, writes - grants to NGOs, economic classification 481, execution 99.99%. Who's lying here now, and which of these two papers isn't true? Final account or what you're proposing to Article 22 regarding Article 13 that I'm asking to change? There's only one thing I know, the parties don't need funds, you pass it on to them. When you have the right to have money, you must also take the responsibility for it. This obligation is so meaningful, so minimal that I really appeal to all my fellow Members in the Assembly that, in the name of parliamentaryism, they vote on the position of Article 2 of this 13th Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14536	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. A draft budget law with a proposal to delete the whole member. Otherwise, this entire article refers to the National Investment Plan, which seems to serve only for the needs of those parties currently at its disposal. The greatest abuse of the National Investment Plan occurs most at the time of the election and it is so obvious and inappropriate that even in the coalition government, even in the former and in this present one, they are most contentious about it, but of course they are not allowed to say it publicly. The position of the Serbian Radical Party on the issue of the National Investment Plan is well-known to Serbian citizens. First of all, we believe that the funds allocated to the National Investment Plan after the privatisation of the "Mobtel" should be relocated to specific ministries that would best spend the funds through the current spending plan. This is how we have huge funds for the NIP, which are virtually available to one political party. This time it is the Democratic Party, and Dragan Gilas, as minister in charge of the NIP and project implementation. Can you imagine the priorities to be addressed by Minister Gilas? It will primarily be the extension of projects from local environments where Democrats are in power. I've already had the chance to hear some of the presidents of the Democratic Party's municipalities boasting that their friend Minister Gilas would "get to meet" them, fortunately for the citizens. Now we need to wonder if money from the state register should be shared if someone is a friend, a acquaintance or a relative. This is primarily discrimination, and it is precisely from those whose mouth is full of words such as equality, democracy, etc. It's one of the Democrats. Radicals will never work that way when they come to power. We're going to be sick of Gilas in this campaign when he takes a picture in front of the village infirmarys, next to the dug-out sewers, by the farms, in the middle of some desert fields, laying a rock foundation, as we've recently seen, etc. I said that the individual presidents of the municipalities are praised that their friend Minister Gilas will meet them and give them some funds because they are Democrats. I've got proof of this, ton shots. Before the Democrats, in that former government, the NIP was dealt with by colleagues from this democratic bloc, from G17 Plus. They pulled their hats and hands, promoted themselves and their political party through the NIP during the 2007 parliamentary elections campaign. Wherever they entered, and they only went to their members who first gave through the Ministry of Agriculture very favourable loans with a long-term repayment period, offered them strong money from the NIP according to projects that were done in order, as a condition for obtaining funds. You probably all remember that slogan G17 plus from last year - expertise in front of politics. Something was said yesterday by MP Stupar; it happened in Jagodina, and I want to say that again, that the public remembers well, as I come from the Pomorava County. Chief expert Mladjan Dinkic in Jagodina, in the village of Ribara, offered NIP funds to promote production to the owner of the bull farm in front of the cameras. It wasn't a loan to expand the farm, it wasn't a loan to buy new throats. Not blinking, chief expert Mladjan Dinkic offers a confused owner of a bull farm, believe it or not, a loan to buy a husband's apparatus, I guess so a man can milk bulls faster and more efficiently. So much for their expertise. Finally, 18 billion and 800 million dinar funds are huge, nearly 230m euros, of which nine billion are shifting towards the AP Vojvodina budget. Putting so much money at the disposal of Dragan Gilas and Pajtic, each Serbian citizen should worry and make the country think where it is going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14538	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14539	First of all, I want all the Orthodox believers who celebrate St. Nicholas with all my heart to congratulate the Christian glory. May all those who had to leave their hearth in the wake of the solemn candle fall in their houses. I would now like to say something about my colleague Radisa Ilic's amendment, which he suggested to be a member of 14. The draft budget law is deleted. You have already heard that Article 14 refers to the National Investment Plan's resources. You've heard one example (if it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny) how the National Investment Plan's funds were shared, how they're divided today. For a better understanding of those who follow us and fellow MPs who may not have read the budget, I will read it. Article 14 is contained almost on the entire page, and I will read two views that are very important for understanding this article and our amendment. Article 2 states: "On the proposal of the National Investment Plan Office, the government will regulate the procedure under which projects are selected for the National Investment Plan and the procedure under which the National Investment Plan is implemented. "Furthermore, point 4 is said: "The Government Act of heading 3 of this article shall allocate part of the funds allocated under Section 3 - Government, Chapter 3.12 - Office for the National Investment Plan, to another direct budget user for the implementation of the projects of the National Investment Plan from the competence of that budget user. "The Serbian Radical Party thinks that, at the very least, it is unserious to leave to any individual the possibility of having so much resources to be provided for by the NIP. I remind you that he who is cheerful and clothed and who has these moneys, Dragan Gilas, a minister who is not known in the people as an honest citizen; I mean various machinations related to the business of his companies, for his questionable acquired wealth. We used to say that it was to give Dragan Gilas to the state's money just like letting the rabbit keep the cabbage. When we Serbian radicals talk about the draft budget law, we don't say that, and we don't tolerate amendments either because of Mladjan Dinkic, nor because of Dragan Gilas, we just illustrate it with examples of a better understanding. All our amendments are of principled nature. We don't want any ministers and any government can make regulations available with this kind of means and it's sort of a state secret. I told you yesterday what regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia mean. They are published in the "Official Messenger" and that is public security, but the "Official Messenger" is a message used exclusively by lawyers in their work and it is not a way that a large number of citizens, or all interested citizens, can get acquainted with the spending of their funds. That's why we think it would be good if the government had accepted this amendment. I recommend, of course, to fellow Members that they do so in voting day. Now I'm going to show you another example of why we don't trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why we don't trust Dragan Gilas, in charge, Mr. Minister, for NIP funds, why we doubt everything the government does, I would say, behind closed doors, away from the eyes of the Assembly. The most normal thing is exactly what we have proposed in the explanation -- that it is necessary to pass a law that will regulate the procedure by which projects will be financed, elected and implemented of national importance. This matter, as it says in the light of this amendment, cannot and must not be regulated by regulations. That's why there are laws. You know, it's much more of a responsibility for someone who's wrong about the law than for someone who's wrong about the regulation. Of course, there is a responsibility for those who disobey the regulation, but he will try to cope in such a way as to explain that he did not have a legal obligation. We therefore insist that it be regulated by law, that situations such as the one I once talked about do not happen, which is that I am at the border crossing between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska on a meadow where there is no river saw a board where it writes – this bridge is funded by the means of an investment plan. So there are really a lot of tragic and funny situations, what you do, how you deceive Serbian citizens, how you spend money. I assume you're all here to look at the daily Justice newspaper. Look, the Shooter got a villa, so it says. "The defence ministry ends with the renovation of a villa that will be housed by Minister Dragan Sutanovac. The works have been going on since September of the month... ". Of course, I don't read everything, just what's most interesting. "The villa is located on Jevrem Grujic Street. About 100,000 euros have been spent on renovating the residence so far. The entire villa is equipped with luxury furniture, astonished by what they saw in the future home of the minister, our conversators say "Justice". They say the Sutanovac will get four large plasma televisions. "I don't know if he'll get or pass on what he got from the Brašnjevic brothers' company, so he got the nickname Shuki Plasma or some of these are new. "As the especially luxurious and most beautiful pieces of furniture I would single out, says Justice Talker, chandelier; each cost, imagine, three thousand euros each. A civilian security guard has already been placed outside the villa, sitting in a "mercedes" in front of the military minister's residence, a police house and approaching, the reporters of "Justice" say, and say -- photography is forbidden, not only because of Sutanovac, but because of the neighbourhood. "That's the comment "Justice." The neighborhood, ladies and gentlemen, is that famous building on Jevrem Grujic Street that we've talked about a lot and we'll talk about more. It is the villa that hears the honourable and honest citizens of Serbia, who are trying in every way possible to force, blackmail, convince themselves to be false witnesses against Dr Vojislav Seselj in the Hague process. Why did I link this to Mr. Radishe Ilic's amendment? Because, I ask you, Minister... You said yesterday you didn't know the answers to all these questions, I don't blame you, you're not the almighty, you've received suggestions from your fellow ministers, but I resent the rest of your colleagues for not being there to answer our questions. So, I ask Dragan Gilas and please let this be recorded as a parliamentary question, has he singled out funds from the NIP for this rude and arrogant luxury of Dragan Sutanovac in a villa on Jevrem Grujic Street, which, according to the "Justice", the Ministry of Defence ends, or ends the renovation that began in September?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14540	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by Professor Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the possible ways that those who work the villa for the Sutanovac, how a good part of the Tykun Serbia has "tikuned" and how they have become newly-roasted rich people, how slowly people without a name, politically, in the public known as rich, slowly spread to Serbia, and how it is difficult and reluctant for this government to stand in the way of such newly-roasted rich people, I will speak about the member I am now talking about, and I will, above all, quote him. Of course, if things weren't hopeless the day Serbia celebrates and partly wonders that this is how we do and share their attention, I will say that there is hope. Hope will be born with the victory of Tomislav Nikolic in the elections and chain of change that will cause it, so someone who will constantly change the laws and certainly be able to intervene and search and hunt for those for which the papers are in drawers, but of course no one opens them. Article 15, which I have submitted to the amendment, is short, I will read it, because there are many terms of economic character that are not too close to me, to explain to the citizens what we wanted to say: "Execution of commitments for the National Investment Plan projects, as well as obligations for projects financed by the funds of the budget planned as capital expenditure, can be done and", is now a key observation, "accounting forms of payment (assignation, cesium, compensation etc.). "Therefore, in the second position, it is crucial that the minister in charge of finance affairs decide, or closer to regulating the way in which the expenditure is carried out. So how, whom, who is in a contractual obligation to execute some projects from the NIP, will be paid. Here, let's say, that's where you lay the mechanisms so that someone can go through everything in an unregulated way to get rich. We have suggested that this member be deleted and appealed, as well as most of the speakers who have come out so far, that this matter be regulated by law, and that the Minister and, in some ways, the Government in a certain way do not make their own ad hoc decisions concerning both programming and planning, as well as how to pay, which is very important, what is financed from the National Investment Plan. And, when the Government sat down to respond, it was mostly prescribed for Articles 14 and 15 – the amendment is not accepted, because this law contains provisions, which, let's convince, are calculated in the decision, the Office's regulation for the National Investment Plan. So the decisions, the decisions contained in the Act establishing the Office and its functioning, have such prerogatives that this law would change significantly, so the lower legal act has been given the importance of a higher legal act, and that's what we're talking about here. What do we really want and how do we explain it? Why am I intervened on this part? In part of these outdateds, say economists, payment methods, therefore, something that little belongs to the immersion era of some measure, such as compensation, assignation, cessium, instead of one direct Virmanic payment - trans business, trans service, there are certain traps. This, truthfully, theoretically and in the circumstances of some good government that honestly and honestly works, honest ministries, clearly defined objectives of the NIP, might be a mechanism to expand the activity and field of intervention, so that something more can be done from this NIP by using the accounting payment mechanism. But if you take that compensation usually connects two people with the intention of making peace between each other and the claims, expressed through some monetary equivalent, they don't pay in money, they should settle for their relationship. Either by aignating one entity to pay for it by another subject, or by a third variant, of the cesium, where the rights of claim to a third party are granted. What could be a trap, when the NIP funds are approved and the tender is being called, that someone is starting to implement some kind of project? It can happen, proportionately and in accordance with the decisions provided for by the member's solutions, that payments are made on this basis in different ways. Maybe some company's gonna give money to pay, so they're gonna have a direct virtual payment and live money to pay their wages. There may be two or three performers in some kind of mutual communication, so maybe the state will accept that, completely harmful and unnecessary, enters the cell, and accept, say, certain high-inflated losses that can be made in the tender. Maybe the minister will be in a position to take out some tendering participant -- you can compete, I'll pay you live money, you won't have to make up for it, or they'll tell someone -- go into compensation, you can blow up costs, we'll beat it up for you, you won't have to pay taxes, or something else, we'll make it worse for someone else or a third. So, the office, the minister, it's all the same party, to solve, perhaps in a worse way than it was before. They changed the owner of NIP's capital by opening the Office and putting an angry enemy on the former minister who decided on this, that they would now, by their own regulations and sublegal acts, create a way to conduct politics and spend funds. So, we are taking the risk that, let's say, some of these companies that are participating in the implementation of the projects from the NIP will one day come into the position that she needs money, in a segmental payment; otherwise, the contract probably provides for payment by law, does not define closer, but will define itself in walking. If someone needs money quickly for something, maybe the minister will be the man who comes and says he can, we'll send you the money you'll have in your account, but you'll have to try to wash it a little bit, something has to be for me too. Because it's simply impossible to understand that after large NIP investments both in health care and in local self-government, a layer of rich people is created in small poor communities. Mass of them have well-hidden money in banks, so they want to show the power and power they have, buy good cars, apartments in Belgrade, etc. This is one way of making it possible by means of state resources, by means of the people to give individuals the opportunity to actually come to an enormous wealth. Finally, the quite direct issue concerns what will be financed directly from the budget and what the NIP will give, which is to improve the infrastructure of higher education institutions, the infrastructure of the student standard. That's about a billion and a half dinars. There will be someone who promotes infrastructure who will have to do concrete work. These concrete works, in order to get large amounts, have to go to tender, will not beat him to a million dinars. Then there's the possibility of a deal. We would like, if the matter is not clear enough, to go through a clean, clear virtual payment -- a trans service, a trance money, a clear tender that one will be able to control, to make sure, to avoid the possibility that the minister will make a decision, when he has a partial payment, as well as by whom he will pay. Because the pathways of some detachment of relationships, of that perpetrator on the ground and ties to the minister and the ministry, are so strange that there's no surprise anymore that a completely anonymous character from some local environment in a few months becomes an incredible rich man. This is what they persistently and skillfully hide, but quickly break in; in human psychology it is that if someone was poor, powerless or not rich enough, with a greater ambition to come up with something in a corrupt way, it emerges very quickly from it, it manifests itself and it manifests itself by its behaviour, buying expensive, luxurious cars, buying apartments in Belgrade etc. You can't get money out of nowhere. The ways and mechanisms of obtaining, in which the government can be dangerously involved, and the minister, for direct benefit, most often we suspect that there is, but certainly at the expense of the Serbian citizens, it is quite clear, should be prevented by a law that would more precisely regulate this matter. It was very clear that the wider the platform to bring what is desired, what is indeed a national priority, the wider the platform to go into tenders, to make them more transparent, the more obvious and more controlled they are. You can't do that to some private who's involved... When he earns a profit, when something is paid to him, he pays the tax on his profits and he is able to make his money, like we do our salaries, available; that private man can put a million, two million in his pocket and say, "Here, thank you, you've done me a good job." You can't control it with mechanisms, as you can public enterprises, state and social enterprises, in which you can track money, so he has to otherwise blow up the costs to get to the extraprofit, which he's going to bribe. Most of the time, it's being laundered through private money, by the middleman. We give them the right to be, but, of course, to be better and more profitable and to be as rich as possible, they will use the mechanisms that are available to them, because the law allows them, that after paying the profit tax they can have with their own resources, as we can afford to pay ourselves, no one will enter the way we spend them. So, the solutions proposed by this method of payment leave many opportunities to create machinations and commit crimes, which we believe will certainly be treated differently, in general, general opinion, the psychology of the people will be changed at the time of the chain of victory, I repeat, after the presidential elections, Tomislav Nikolic will lead to a change in the structure of the government in the Republic of Serbia and the SRS becoming responsible for both this part of the government and for the change of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14542	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14543	My colleague, who is rightly absent, with his amendment, as well as the entire SRS parliamentary group, wanted to point out how harmful the NIP is and that for years we have been in a situation where, with the help of the NIP, the ruling party has been trying to buy voters in the upcoming elections. I'm sure this NIP was designed to help the Democratic Party in the upcoming presidential elections. Such behaviour is very harmful for the country, for our economy and for Serbia's future. The Serbian Radical Party opposes attempts to put the future of our economy under question for some of the current political interests. The National Investment Plan is harmful for two reasons. On the one hand, because it is obvious that the economy is dried up, that the government is removing the skin from the back of citizens and businesses, that we have an unequal economy that is unable to finance production by its own craftsmanship, which is forced to take expensive loans, unable to invest and provide new jobs, which is obvious through the decline of the number of jobs in Serbia. It is obvious that tax reliefs should enable businesses to breathe easier and generate more serious profits. On the other hand, the NIP encourages inflation, which is large and will be large in both this year and above that projected by the government. Inflation, therefore, public spending is defended by monetary policy, by the arrest of dinars affecting the decline in exports, and that is the second reason why the NIP is harmful. The National Investment Plan itself deceives citizens of Serbia. Some are allowed to make some investments, and others are given false hopes that if they get in line and wait for a while they will be able to provide for themselves, for their environment, a more serious investment by the government. It is the simplest purchase of votes and is unacceptable in the situation in which the Serbian state is presently. That is why I urge you to consider in the voting day my colleague Nikola Savic's amendment to vote for this amendment and once and for all to pass the time of a party state, an inefficient, irrational state administration and any institution that thus destroys the economic system, and to give Serbia and Serbia new hopes for Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14544	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maraš. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14545	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 16, to the views of the 4th and 5th members. It would take me a long time to read an entire article of Article 16, which is quite extensive and applies primarily to jurisdiction, i.e. responsibilities in the implementation of the NIP. What has bothered us in the LDP with this member, and above all, those positions 4 and 5, I have repeatedly, during the debate in principle and by amendments, drawn attention to this, is that there is no dedicated responsibility of ministers whose resolutions contain funds for the NIP. All we know is that the NIP Office has an obligation to reroute to Vojvodina nine billion dinars for the NIP. For this reason, I have made one amendment in this position on 4th, which is that it is decidedly state what the funds that the minister is in charge of the NIP are obliged to transfer to the territory of the AP Vojvodina and I have entered those nine billion. In an explanation why the amendment refuses to touch this part at all, Mr. Minister. I tried to change two attitudes. You have not responded at all to this point of view, or point 4. The one who responded was not interested in that attitude at all. The second attitude I've tried to change is the attitude of the fifth member. On this occasion, I would read the amendment, as it is important to understand the difference compared to Article 16(5), which should read: "The implementation of the funds set out in Article 4 of this article for projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina shall be recorded in the budget of the Republic of Serbia as expenditure incurred by the AP Vojvodina budget in accordance with Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Serbian Republic budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures." This is the change I have made – that these funds will be implemented through the transfer of the AP Vojvodina budget towards the dynamics defined by the Minister in charge of the NIP in co-operation and on the proposal of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. You rejected this amendment, although in the very explanation you stated that nothing prevents the minister in charge of the NIP, or other ministers from working with the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina. I underline once again, "idila" in the implementation of the NIP, when funds are transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the AP Vojvodina budget, can only last as long as they are from the same party and the one in charge of the NIP, which is the man who comes from the DS, Dragan Gilas, and the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, or ministers, who are also from the DS. What will happen after the province elections, which we will likely have next year, if there is a change in government in Vojvodina, or if some other parties participate in power or if some other parties join the current coalition? What happens if he's not president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, someone who's from the DS? Will the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget then run smoothly towards the AP Vojvodina budget or will there be interference? I truly have a basis for doubting that these funds will not be transferred in the manner provided for in the Constitution, or in the amount provided for by the Constitution or in such a situation, let alone if there is a change in government. We hope that there will be a change after the province's elections in Vojvodina, i.e. that citizens will finally get a more responsible power that will not depend so much on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to say something about some other things, but Mr. Dulic, unfortunately, is not here right now. I wanted to comment on the atmosphere in the O.R., a small number of MPs. That's what we've been paying attention to – if the campaign starts, and even if it happens it's a holiday, there won't really be much of it from the discussion itself. But what worries much more is the government's relationship, the relationship between those who have proposed this law. You have all seen that 107 amendments have been submitted, 106 has been rejected, only one amendment has been accepted, and this amendment has been submitted by the head of the DS parliamentary group and its deputy. It is an amendment that, in my opinion, is maximum demagogue and which affects the increase of the funds for the salaries of employees in the Assembly, or for the services they work in the Assembly. It could have been done in a different way, it could have been the finance minister. Since you talked about having talks with each resolution minister about how much funds, how to deploy, etc., that you gave them some autonomy, you could do the same with the president of the National Assembly. So we wouldn't get into this farce situation if the only amendment that was accepted was an amendment that could otherwise be resolved, in fact, that it wasn't at all and that it was already a solution in the budget. You have all 106 amendments filed by the opposition refused. The reasons were that they were not in accordance with Article 26. Budgetary system law. I'd only ask one question, which is what's heard today, who's responsible for the violation of article 14. Budgetary system law because the budget hasn't been adopted by 15 December? Someone has to be responsible. Members of the Republic Assembly are not responsible for this, especially the MPs of the opposition. This is the responsibility of the Government, which late submitted the draft budget. If you could refuse 50% of the amendments because they do not comply with Article 26. The budget system law, so once you say that what we're doing right now, means December 19th, on a holiday, it's not in line with the Budget System Act. Article 14 has been broken, no legal deadlines have been respected, let's once have someone responsible for this. Those who don't sit here are responsible, who just sent you here. No matter how professional you may be, someone else should sit there, and above all, the prime minister and vice president of the government. I would once again refer, Mr. Minister, to the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4, if you allow me to abuse this notification by amendment to Article 16. I really think it would be necessary for that Article 4 to state who is responsible, i.e. who has the obligation to notify the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina of the amount of funds collected on the basis of those two taxes that we have discussed, which are income tax and profit tax. My proposal was to be the Treasury Administration, and I really think it's the only way to see transparently how much funds are transferred to the AP Vojvodina based on those two taxes. It's Article 4, you know it well. I have submitted this amendment and it has been rejected, but I think it takes this kind of responsibility a little more to put into work not only in the Assembly but also in the adoption of these laws, that is, when proposing these laws. A letter from the educators and nurses of the Preschool institution "Bisera" from Triestenik arrived during the LDP parliamentary club today. Their question comes first and foremost to this, Mr. Minister, whether Mr. Loncar, Minister of Education, has held a conversation with you about raising funds in the pre-school staff budget. I'd like you to answer that question. Your associate will record that. So, to answer whether the increased funds for employees, since comparing the 2007 and 2008 budget, we see an increase, with a small difference here, are here, the pre-school institutions and primary education are united, so it's not quite decided to how much these funds are and whether they are increased. I hope, Mr. Minister, that once again you will think carefully and that you will try to influence those who decide whether to accept any amendments should be accepted. It would be good to introduce a little responsibility in the implementation of every law, including this one. The government is the most responsible here. Indeed, on the basis of what we have been talking about so far and what we have so far had the opportunity to see how some things work, I think we need more responsibility, we need to know what funds the minister responsible for implementing the NIP is, and it would be good to do so in collaboration with the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14546	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14547	On several occasions, during this discussion, I talked about these funds that are defined as national or, as I say, pre-election investment plan. Everything that my colleague Marash used to say stands, and everything that we said. The reason it is so lies in nothing but that Serbia is a centralised country as it has never been. But at the same time, it was never less effective than it is today. The precondition for democratisation of the country is to strengthen the position of local self-government and regionalisation. Serbia will by no means be a democratic and strong state unless its decentralisation is launched as soon as possible. Decentralisation, as I said earlier, does not only mean strengthening Vojvodina's autonomy but especially strengthening local self-government. This process of strengthening local self-government should begin as early as possible so that such programs as this NIP, or similar, from Belgrade, from one office determine what will be done, whether to turn the House of Culture into a secuntary or improve the lighting in Odjac. It is not up to you to decide here, as the people like to say, in a circle of twos or in an office in the government, but they know it best and the citizens themselves know it best in their inhabited cities, municipalities or cities. This regional charge is not only present in the AP Vojvodina. Lately, one who wants to take it seriously can see it both in Nis, so in Shumadia, Sandzak, and in our opinion, most of the Vojvodinas, the city of Belgrade itself deserves to get the status of the region in the process of decentralisation and have special autonomy. The AP Vojvodina Assembly is currently the only regional body operating under the state-law system of the Republic of Serbia. That is why this assembly should be seen in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, especially in the government and here in the National Assembly, as the driver of the initiative to regionalise and strengthen the positions of local self-government. These initiatives, launched by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, will certainly contribute to the rapid democratisation of the Republic of Serbia and its approximation to European standards. Let's just remember the 1999 Constitution. The centralisation that followed the alibi had problems in Kosovo and Metohija. So that constitution has conditioned a centralised Republic of Serbia, mostly for reasons to better address accumulated problems through this centralization in our southern province -- Kosovo and Metohija. What led to this centralization from this constitution? It led to this policy, especially on this day, being devastating, God forbid, for the Republic of Serbia, and it was reflected in the fact that citizens living in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija were not involved at all, nor were they able to express their personality or some of their thoughts. So through this centralization, we have excluded a whole or a large part of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija and denied them the opportunity to express everything they need or what they should do within the framework of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I am not surprised that the Republic of Serbia has arrived, as far as the southern province, Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, in the position they are in today. The position today is not pink at all, because today the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is being resolved far, far from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately. Neither has this new, democratic power since 2000 been celebrated as regards the decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, nor the strengthening of Vojvodina's autonomy. And in the programme of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's third part, the third item of the programme was this very fact. Thin or almost no results as far as Vojvodina's concerned have been achieved in that omnibus, or, as the Vojvodina likes to say popularly, they have received somewhat wider autonomy with a minibus from Belgrade. The new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was brought in last year, as far as decentralisation of our state is concerned, is certainly not a step forward. The constitution, for example, contains only principle guarantees on the right of citizens to province autonomy, without defining that right. It is devastating for the Vojvodians that the only original jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina under the current Constitution is to bring what it will look like to them, or what it will look like to us to the coat of arms and flag, while all other rights are conditioned by the law. Now, about a little closer to the National Investment Plan, yesterday the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina discussed the implementation of the AP Vojvodina budget for the period January 1st - September 30th 2007. For the sake of reminders, a colleague, Marash, has just read it, we have in the Constitution a member of the RS 184, especially his position 4 which says what it belongs to, or at least 7%, etc., from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For your information, a total of 25.42 billion dinars arrived in the AP Vojvodina budget last September 30th. Of that, 14 billion are, I've said it multiple times, transfer funds, means education salaries and cultural wages; that 14 billion are easily calculated because, in fact, 55% of the funds that have come into the AP Vojvodina budget from here in this budget. For the Capital Investment Fund, which was spectacularly founded and started working in the AP Vojvodina, only two billion total came. So, on the one hand, we have the Democratic Party and the Capital Investment Fund, which they are leading, which literally say 22 billion dinars have passed through the Fund this year, and only two billion dinars have come from the Republic of Serbia's budget by September 30th. I have repeatedly said that I find it impossible for these remaining 19-20 billion to arrive in the last quarter. We have an announcement that 29 billion dinars will be realised through this fund next year. This fund is necessary for both Vojvodina and other parts of this country, but only nine billion dinars are foreseen at the NIP position. We assume these are the funds that will be transferred to Vojvodina, and Vojvodina will invest them in the Capital Investment Fund. Where is the work of this 20 billion? How are we going to replace that? Probably like this year's. No one will see them alive. It is another interesting piece of information that I have to share with you, which is that for the first nine months of 2007, the Dukes have collected and directly entered into the budget of the Republic of Serbia 138 billion dinars. Since the last quarter is the strongest quarter, it is assumed that in 2007, at least according to these data available to the Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia's budget from the AP territory will be brought down by at least 200 billion dinars. And 200 billion dinars is more than 1/3 of our projected 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of those 35%, if we add everything together probably more than a percentage, with how many citizens of the AP Vojvodina are filled with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or those of the skinny at least 7% that we are promised are not. We can't get them. I spoke here and about local self-government, so, if you remember, I said that there are differences in how much transfer funds local self-government gets. In the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it is interesting, for the first nine months of its total budget, the least transferred funds received the municipality of Zrenjanin, only 17%, and the highest received the municipality of Bac - 62%. In order not to return, I will share with you and my thoughts regarding our oldest citizens, or pensioners. In the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, we had the opportunity to hear that around 1/3 of this year's budget, i.e. 177 billion dinars, will be spent on subsidising funds for our pensioners. I spoke in principle debate, so I want to repeat, so the pension base is calculated on the basis of the average salary paid during a certain period in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This average salary that passes through the legal flows of our financial system does not reflect the right amount, or the average salaries in the Republic of Serbia are much higher than those we can express. They are bigger in that employers, an inadmissible number of employers, salaries and contributions do not pay their employees to their giro-accounts, to their current accounts or legally through the cash register, but, as we say, do, inaccessibly large amounts of money, on black. In this way, the average salary is lower, i.e. the pension base is smaller and our pensioners don't get as much as they do. No wonder that many who meet even the two grounds for retirement do not want to go there because they are waiting for more than half the income they now have. The attitude of our employers towards people who are four or five years old until retirement is as well as those who have just begun to work, i.e. the minimumer pays them legally and most of the rest of the benefits on black. The control of all this is impossible, several MPs have talked about it, with this kind of attitude towards the State Auditing Institution, because they don't even have their own room, it's not meant to have it, and with this number and pay, it's impossible to control it all. But maybe the finance ministry could deal with this problem a little bit more so that maybe consider the idea of taking the business for some credit potential, and the data on their average wages, that it would be one of the elements. Perhaps those who pay more than average wages can be stimulated by reducing their contribution through these funds or perhaps even being forgiven. I think maybe there's a lot to be learned from the states in the environment, that we all make our pensioners' lives not better than tolerable. Because as they live now, it's a disgrace to each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14548	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14549	I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which apply to the matter of what is on the agenda, and it would mean that the MP is saying what is true. The previous counterpart, likely in order to make more of the party's policy to which he belongs, spoke about the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to Kosovo and the Metohija in a way that is not absolutely correct. Obviously this issue of budgets in the good number of MPs present is causing such a feeling that perhaps a number of MPs do not listen carefully to what they say, and unfortunately, I was now in a situation to hear, saying things. So, for those uninformed, since the policy of the Serbian state is being talked about in an extremely negative way throughout the previous period, I would ask my colleague to take a look at what happened years ago. I'm not talking about the '90s, but I'm talking about the '80s and the '90s, I'm not skipping any period or what the state is doing right now. All these efforts are to solve one question in the way that all civilized countries do and that minorities get the rights that belong to them, other than those they don't belong to, which they would like to create a state in the territory they settle. I'm not saying this by accident. In the 1980s, for those who do not remember, members of the Albanian minority community had a representative in the collective head of state, the famous SFRJ presidency. They had 70 years of schooling in their university language, which was then a unique case in the world. In the 1990s, they obviously defined themselves as another strategy. The state has not denied them the possibility of having rights in the field of culture, in the area of health, in the area of pension insurance or in any other area of life in this country, but they have defined themselves to create a parallel system. It should be recalled that they used what the state had given them, travel documents, etc., but they didn't want to pay taxes, they didn't want to go to the military. And that was little for them, so at the end of the 1990s, terrorist activities began; the state reacted, and those who supported terrorists were defined for another policy, etc. It was made by Racak, a cause for bombing, aggression and, unfortunately, we are where we are, with an attempt by the state to do something. I'm saying this because there's so much to hear from this pay phone. It would be my turn for MPs who want to affirm their policy, the party policy they belong to, to do so in a way that they affirm, not to destroy the state, because it is not correct at all from the point of view of the role of the MP, let alone the citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14550	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, we have repeatedly said that SVM MPs will not vote in favour of the budget for several reasons, and the most important thing is the continuation of centralised policy by the Government of Serbia and, on the other hand, disrespect for the autonomy of Vojvodina. For the sake of importance, I'd like to repeat some of the facts that I've partially presented in the principle debate, and I think they're very important. So the ruling coalition's parties have repeatedly deceived the people of Vojvodina over the past year. The first time they did so was when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, just over a year ago, when in the referendum campaign, they kept their real account quiet, according to which seven duodenal percentages were included in the referendum campaign, and some of the funds in the area of culture, amounting to a total of just over 23 billion dinars. Unfortunately, it is clear to all, the role of the AP Vojvodina's authority in the distribution of these funds is reduced to the role of a regular postman. The second fraud took place in the adoption of the 2007 budget, so for the current year, when you budgeted four billion dinars for projects on AP Vojvodina's territory in the head - the National Investment Plan Office, and the government instead of transferring those four billion dinars to the AP Vojvodina budget, on the basis of one regulation, spent the funds. To make the fraud even bigger, she also imposed an obligation on AP Vojvodina authorities to record the funds in the AP Vojvodina budget as revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, these funds have been spent, not the entire amount of funds, but largely on projects that fall within the jurisdiction of the Republic – buildings of tax administrations, prisons, misdemeanor courts, etc. I think this is a pure violation of the Constitution that simply can't be cleaner. The third time we've been cheated, perhaps better stolen, after the 2007 budget. In this respect, a member of the current Budget Law found that the remaining amount of funds would be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget, so aside from the income tax on citizens, corporate income taxes, other revenue on the territory of the AP Vojvodina despite the funds for education and cultural salaries, the remaining amount of up to 7% will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget, in line with the decision on the AP Vojvodina budget for 2007. This sentence stands in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year. Since the AP Vojvodina budget was made at that time, it was quite clear what the funds were planned for Vojvodina by the authorities, or the Vojvodina Assembly. The funds amounted to 21.4 billion dinars, and unfortunately, there were a lot of words about this, the achievement of these funds by 30 September is 9.33 per cent. So, out of the 21.4 billion dinars, two billion have merged into the AP Vojvodina budget. Of course, there are other reasons, but primarily because of this reason, the implementation of the entire AP Vojvodina budget by September 30th is at 45.85%. This means that the AP Vojvodina budget in 2007, as things are now, means 13 days before the end of the year, was damaged by 19.5 billion dinars. I think this is a crime. In fact, someone stole the people of Vojvodina from 19.5 billion dinars. A new scam is being made when the 2008 budget is adopted. It is now being done in co-operation with the province's DS leadership, which was not the case when the 2007 budget was passed. In fact, nine billion dinars are now projected to transfer the AP Vojvodina budget to the National Investment Plan. The problem is that the funds, on the one hand, will be recorded in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina as expenditure on the AP Vojvodina budget, however, the distribution of these funds will be made by the government of the Republic of Serbia by its decision. So they will transfer nine billion dinars formally, but essentially they will simply spend their resources on their decision. This means that the right to decide on these funds is simply taken away from the AP Vojvodina, instead of leaving it to them. It's also a violation of the Constitution. It's just that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. We have submitted an amendment aimed at bringing the 2008 draft budget into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and leaving the right to decide the authorities of the AP Vojvodina against these nine billion dinars from the NIP. Of course, no wonder the amendment was rejected, but the argument is pointless. The reason why the amendment refuses is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the NIP minister is in charge. I don't think this argument has anything to do with the substance of the amendment. So, unfortunately, in 2008, the essence remains the same as it was in 2007 -- a decision on the use of NIP funds is being made in Belgrade. The AP Vojvodina authorities will now be formally consulted, but they will not make any decisions. What's the difference between 2007 and 2007? In 2008 instead of four billion, as it was in 2007, AP Vojvodina's authorities will be disbursed of nine billion dinars, and completely legal, based on the Budget Law, and no one will be able to say anything later. What about the remaining funds up to 7%? It will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget through other NIP projects, it is in the draft budget. This means that even without the opinion of the AP Vojvodina authorities, it was said that with very bad prospects, given the relationship between Minister Dinkic and Minister Ilic towards Vojvodina... Let's get back to 2007. Namely, there are some data that deserve to be quoted. On the one hand, the total revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget in 2007 will be around 35 billion dinars, given the financial developments by September 30th, which means that around 6% of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget will be achieved. So it will be safe under the 7% Constitutional Constitution and formally violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it's broken in a fundamental way, and it's much more important. On the one hand, the authorities of the AP Vojvodina in 2007 will decide independently to spend about 15 billion dinars; therefore, instead of 7%, which would mean autonomy, in accordance with the Constitution, they will decide about about 2.5% of the republican budget, meaning that such amount. On the other hand, capital expenditure will amount to around 4.5 billion dinars in 2007; therefore, instead of 3/7, the Vojvodjan will be 1% for capital expenditure. I think it's a good one compared to the budget of the city of Novi Sad, which is 14 billion dinars. Of course, the distribution of these funds is decided by the City of Novi Sad Assembly. In contrast, practically, AP Vojvodina's authorities decide on a budget that is approximately the same height. The question is, is this what I was talking about constitutionality and legality? I don't think so; you can see how hypocritical it is for you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to question the legality and constitutionality of the AP Vojvodina decisions. If you've forgotten, I would like to remind you that a few months ago you've made amendments to the State Administration Act and prescribed the authorities of the AP Vojvodina to send their decisions to the competent ministries before the entry into force. I think this position is so subordinated that neither "a" nor autonomy exists, that the local communities in North Korea have more autonomy than the AP Vojvodina. What the president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina is doing is "marketing autonomy". Namely, he talks a lot about the autonomy of the Vojvodina, and in collaboration with you DS deputies here in the National Assembly, he's working precisely to weaken the position of the AP Vojvodina. Such goals are shared by other parties based in Belgrade. The problem, however, is that Mr. Pajtic is saying something completely different, he's making some kind of theater show instead of admitting what I'm talking about. Of course, according to the example of Velimir Ilic and he visits construction sites, he opens construction sites which, fortunately, there are many in Vojvodina, and of course we recognize it. It wouldn't be a problem if the President of the Executive Council visited those sites if he told the truth to the citizens at those sites. It is true that five times more could be built if the citizens of Vojvodina in 2007 were not stolen by 19.5 billion dinars by the government of the Republic of Serbia. In the debate, I asked Mr Cvetkovic one question in principle, but I didn't get an answer. Now I'm going to repeat that question and fill it in with two more questions. The first question, what amount of funds – Mr. Minister, I ask you a question, please listen to me – will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina for capital expenditure in 2008, and on whose distribution of decisions will be made by the AP authorities? On the other hand, the new Budget System Law will define the notion of budget and will be quite simple to determine what the 7% means. The second question, by the end of 2007, what will be the total budget of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Law on the Budget System? I'm looking for this information so I can calculate how much that violation of the Constitution will be, how much funds will be below 7%. On the third hand, Mr Elezovic, president of the Regional DS Committee, said on a TV show last night that by the end of the year there are 13 days left and that funds will be transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the Vojvodina Development Fund of billions and a half of dinars, so for the next 13 days. My third question is – is this Mr Elezovic's promise based on facts? In the end, I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly - are you ready, Mr. President of the National Assembly, to listen to Mr. Balint Pastor's appeal not to work on the day of the Catholic Christmas or are you still standing at the point of view that you intend to humiliate the MPs who wish to celebrate that day?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14552	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14553	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I also said in principle that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians would vote against the proposed 2008 budget for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is the anti-constitutional position of Vojvodina in the 2008 draft budget. I have already presented some facts in the principle debate; Mr. Varga has just presented some additional facts, but there are many facts about the humiliation of Vojvodina and I would like to announce a few more facts from this place. In accordance with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, belongs to at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would like to stress that there is the word "minimum" in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; means that at least 7% could be 10%, or 12%, but unfortunately, Vojvodina does not get the 7% it should receive on the basis of Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? The problem is that the constitution is being violated, and the other problem is that the Democratic Party is meeting with 7%. I simply don't understand why 7% is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why isn't it standing anymore? But when it already stands 7%, then it would be good for that constitutional provision to be respected and that the funds, or the percentage from the republican budget, should be given to the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, it's not like that. In Vojvodina, the Provincial Government established a Capital Investment Fund. The Regional Executive Council formed the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina and was also formed the Fund for the Development of Agriculture of the AP Vojvodina. The fund was also founded by the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina. These funds should act with the aim of improving the economic position of Vojvodina, improving the infrastructure in Vojvodina, improving the position of agricultural producers, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, these very important funds cannot achieve their goals for the simple reason that those funds are not coming from the republic's budget, which should come under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I also said in principle that the planned budget of the AP Development Fund was 1,600,000 dinars in 2007. Of which, unfortunately, only 67 million or 4.2% of the planned amount were realised. Why is that? Of course, it is not because of the irresponsibility of the founders of the Development Fund, it is not because of the irresponsibility of the province's Executive Council, but because of the conduct of the Republic government, because the Republic government violates, unfortunately, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's the ultimate problem? The ultimate problem is that the Development Fund has opened certain competitions for agricultural producers, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises; people and firms from Vojvodina have applied for these funds, and the Development Fund cannot allocate those funds to those who have applied because the budget of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund is empty. It's a similar case with the Capital Investment Fund. It is the fund that builds around Vojvodina, which is the fund thanks to which the President of the Executive Council and Vice-President of the Democratic Party Mr. Bojan Pajtic paints every day in a Vojvodina town. He seeks to show that the construction of the infrastructure was achieved solely thanks to the Democratic Party, that the whole of Vojvodina is a major construction site. Of course, I have to admit that there's a lot of work to be done and built in Vojvodina, but that's not the result of work exclusively by Bojan Pajtic, that's the result of the work of the Executive Council of Vojvodina. That is what the Democratic Party, the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Movement of Serbia's Forces are doing. Mr. Varga said very correctly that what Mr. Pajtic is doing is marketing autonomy, that there is no "a" in the financial autonomy of Vojvodina, let alone some other features of autonomy. I would like to remind you that the ruling coalition did not consider it important to propose to the National Assembly a law on the property of Vojvodina, that Vojvodina may be the only region in all of Europe that has no property, which barely has its original incomes. Unfortunately, very little has been done since 2000. Vojvodina is the only region in Europe in which the building of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the building of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina are not owned by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina and Vojvodina but rather owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is a humiliating situation. To get back to the Capital Investment Fund. Neither could this fund do everything planned, as funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget do not arrive. When I raised this issue after this speaker a few days ago, when the principle debate was under way, Mr Bozidar Djelic, vice-president of the Republic Government, said it was true that not all the funds that had to come from the Republic's budget had arrived, but that is because the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund has not yet arrived in the Republic Government. I think we must unequivocally tell the people of Vojvodina that the Democratic Party, the Republic government and personally Bozidar Djelic think that Vojvodina is a small child who has to run with various pre-accounts at central Belgrade, that justice costs and that it is waiting for whether the Republic government will eventually supply those funds to the AP Vojvodina. I think that there should be a different relationship between the Republic and the province government, that these funds should be allocated to the Vojvodina at the beginning of the year or periodically. Of course, the Executive Greater and the other authorities of the AP Vojvodina should have these resources. I am sure that the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina knows that these funds can be spent best and best, in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But since that is not the case, regardless of the fact that the Democratic Party is in the majority of the republic and in the province government, it is simply not clear to me why Mr Bozidar Djelic, why Minister Cvetkovic does not trust Bojan Pajtic. Why don't these people trust their party like-minded? Why don't they trust their party's vice president when they don't already trust other members of the province's government, the circuit executive council? Why don't they get those funds, at least because of Bojan Pitiæ? I'm sure Mr. Cvetkovic and Mr. Djelic can trust Mr. Pajtic. I also invite them from this place not to treat Vojvodina as a small child and that those funds belonging to the Vojvodina be made available either at the beginning of the year or by a certain periodical period. I was just talking about the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, and I said it was only 4.2% of the planned amount for the AP Development Fund. These funds should primarily come from privatisation revenues, but unfortunately, these revenues do not arrive with such dynamics as they should arrive. The problem is that this National Assembly and the MPs have not seen the final accounts in the National Assembly for many years and we simply do not know how much funds the Vojvodina has received. We always know just how much the funds were planned to get the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, and of course that's not good. A moment ago, Mr. Varga said that Mr. Elezovic said on a TV show yesterday that it was true that very few funds came from the republican budget to the Vojvodjan, but that he still has ten days and that the funds would arrive. I have to say that I was on that show too, and Mr. Elezovic answered my question. I really think it's funny that the Democratic Party deceives people. Simply, the DS thinks it's not just a Duke's little child, but all the citizens of Vojvodina with the right to vote are little children and it's possible to say that it's true that nothing has arrived in almost 50 weeks, but it will all arrive in two weeks, by the end of the year or in a week. I think it's just a hoax. As regards this particular amendment of ours, we have proposed that the NIP funds be allocated on a proposal, i.e. more specifically by a decision of the AP Vojvodina Authority. We simply believe that these funds from the National Investment Plan belonging to the Vojvodina, according to the Constitution, should be deployed by the authorities of the Vojvodina. Once again, I would like to say that the Democratic Party makes up the majority not only in the Republic government but also in the province government, so it would be good for the DS people sitting in the Republic Government to have at least the understanding for Bojan Pajtic and for the DS people at the Executive Council. It would be good if this autonomy of the Vojvodina were not only a dead letter on paper, but that it would actually come to life in practice, that the authorities of the Vojvodina were to allocate those funds belonging to the Constitution. From this point on, I would like to appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia that as soon as possible, on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would propose to the MPs and parliament a bill on the property of the AP Vojvodina, that Vojvodina should not be the only region in Europe that does not have its own property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14554	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 17. The draft budget law was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I don't think it's going to be a difficult task for me, and I assume that the minister will accept this amendment in the course of my arguments for the adoption of this amendment, so that Mrs. Verica Radeta, who also wants to talk about this amendment, will have no need for that. You know that MP Zoran Krasic is one of the best legal theorists and practitioners in Serbia. Many colleagues have acknowledged this, but the greatest recognition was given in time by the youngest professor, i.e. the doctor of legal science, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, when Mr. Krasic, together with Aleksandra Vukic and Slavko Jerkovic, appointed his legal adviser. Mr. Minister, this amendment does not affect Mr. Krasic's very distribution of funds under Article 5 of this law, which is being deployed to about 500 judicial authorities, but we want to point to something else. We want to affirm the principle of the division of power in Serbia to legislative, executive and judicial, because what you provided for in the 2008 draft budget law certainly does not lead to this, but rather the dependence of the judicial authority on the executive authority, and above all from the minister of justice. Article 17(1) of this Act provides that the minister of justice will be directed towards certain courts by the court fees found in the register. Then, the funds that the courts receive as indirect beneficiaries of the budget will also be able to use and spend at the order of the Justice Minister, and the spending and available commander will be the chairman of the judicial authority or prosecutor, of course, if there is such funds, depending on the extent to which they exist. Then, in the position of the 4th member, it is foreseen that the minister will decide to obtain certain funds for a number of courts. Finally, it is said that the Ministry is overseeing the spending of these funds if these funds are not spent in the best possible way, and we know how budget control is carried out, so that all this can and should be out of the influence of the justice minister. This Ministry of Justice, as well as all the justice ministers since 2000, have been trying to speed up the negative selection. Although we in the Serbian Radical Party believe that the largest number of judges and prosecutors are honest and honest people, in which there is no way that they can influence their work in accordance with the Constitution and the law and on the basis of their judicial conviction, the possibility that the minister of justice can have a major impact on the employees of certain judicial authorities, such as the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, is not ruled out by the Special Court. These must be favorites in the entire system of justice and justice ministers and many ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We want to stop it. In fact, they take the citizens of Serbia and scare them there in those courts. We respect the court and the judicial authorities, but we believe that Serbian citizens should express their free will before courts, not be blackmailed, bullied, as the war crimes prosecution and the Special Court do in a very large number of cases. This time I would like to request an explanation from the Minister of Justice, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, when he plans to complete the municipal court in a small town in Krupanj. I have repeatedly pointed out that there are only the President of the Court and another judge in that court. You can imagine how slow justice is for the citizens of Krupanj if they have a president and only one judge. If this Article 17 were to remain this way, there would be great differences in material and technical equipment between courts. I know that there are already numbers of cars in some courts than there are judges, and there are no cars in the other. Then, there are problems with the staff that do programming in courts and that's something that must be paid a lot of attention in the coming period. I would like to take the opportunity to say that when the law on the seat of the courts is passed, regardless of the recommendations of the EU and other international authorities and those that make the preparations for judges and prosecutors in Serbia, we must take care of the territorial distance of those people who may eventually appear as parties to municipal courts. As an example, I must specify the place from which I come, which is Ljubovija, where there are villages that are 40 km from the seat of the Municipal Court; Ljubovija is 70 km away from Loznica, so that if the municipal court in Ljubljana were to be abolished, we would have a situation in order for citizens of Serbia to have to travel 70 km away from the courts, or 140 km away, which would slow down the efficiency of the court, which would also make it more expensive for citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14556	I thank you, Mr. Perry. The word, according to this amendment, has a People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard the argument of counterpart Sreta Perić regarding the amendment that counterpart Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 17, which he proposed to be a member of 17. The 2008 bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget erases. First of all, I'm going to quote two articles of Article 17 to make it more clear, in fact, what this is about and why we in the Serbian Radical Party think this member has to be deleted. The first point is said: "The minister responsible for the affairs of justice is responsible for giving a transfer order on the basis of the collection of court fees on judicial bills, as well as for the transfer of funds made on the basis of court fees from the budget to the sub-accounts of the judicial authorities. "In the last position, you say, "the Ministry of Justice is overseeing the spending of the assets of Section 5 - The judicial authorities, if by law or by other regulations, are not different. "The expropriation of this member is because it is unacceptable that the executive power through the implementation of the budget can in any way affect the judicial authority and blackmail the employees of the judiciary. You have explained that you do not accept the amendment for the reason that the executive authority does not affect the judicial authority through budget implementation, and you say, "In fact, the proposed member is fully in accordance with Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, since, otherwise, the funds for judicial authorities have been established in a specific part of the budget, which covers the financial plans of all direct beneficiaries of the budget, and thus the judicial authorities, have, in accordance with the principle, divided the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. Article 17. The draft law regulated the technical issue of the transfer of funds in accordance with the approved appraisals to sub-accounts of more than 500 judicial authorities, in such a way that the power to issue orders for this transfer is given to the Minister of Justice, while the issue of a warrant for the spending of these funds is within the competence of the budgetary user. the judicial authority itself. "So, your argument, Mr. Minister, or the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not correspond to the essence of what we have submitted the amendment and you did not really explain why this amendment by counterpart Zoran Krasic was not accepted. That your proposed solution is in accordance with Article 10. The budget system law, of course, has nothing to do with our amendment. We talked today about what it means to be a member of this draft budget law in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, and that is completely irrelevant. I have to be even simpler than my colleague Martinovic, who talked about it today, to explain, first of all, for the public; I like to be understood by Serbian citizens, therefore, not just by lawyers. I agree absolutely with my colleague Martinovic, but if we submit an amendment to this draft budget to any member who, as you say, is in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and if you in the Government assess that our amendment is good and accept that amendment, or is accepted by the MPs, then it is perfectly normal that it implies that the Law on the Budget System should also be amended. That is our goal. So, we've been claiming for seven years that you midwives are passing laws that are harmful and bad for Serbian citizens. We, through every law, try to draw your attention to the amendments that this law is not good, but it is not a good one to which this one is proposed in one way or that way of leaning, supplementing, supplementing it, etc. That is exactly the essence of the operation of the SRS parliamentary group. You have, according to this draft budget, Mr Cvetkovic, with eight billion euros in national money and more than a billion euros in debt to Serbian citizens. You don't know how to answer a single question here. I repeat again, I do not object to you, because you cannot know the answer to each of these questions, but I am convinced that this question I want to talk about now knows that Minister Dusan Petrovic answers. Then you, too, would understand, if you were in agreement with this response from the government or if you had read it at all, that we are right when we claim that the executive authority is blackmailing the judiciary through budget execution. It happened to us just a few days ago, I don't know, 15 days ago, how long it's been since the D.A.'s employees strike for small wages. What happened then? Is it true that then Tadic's Minister Dusan Petrovic came before those strikers who said they could get higher salaries if they left the judiciary for 2000, or if they quit? On the other hand, he promises to hire 2300 people in the judiciary. Isn't that blackmail? Isn't that the best example of how executives influence and try to influence judicial employees? And what people are going to do, they're going to be fired, then they're going to say, "Better than 12,000 dinars than quits." That's how you put pressure on all the spheres of life in Serbia, Mr. Cvetkovic. That's really inadmissible. It's unacceptable for you to explain to us, as if we're morons, so we don't understand what we're writing and what we're talking about here, and you're convincing us that it's not true that you're influencing yourself. So you, Mr Cvetkovic, from the Democratic Party, from Djindjic to Tadic, have been lying to Serbian citizens for seven years that you will bring a judicial budget. That's what the SRS stands for. You've been saying for seven years that you'll have a judicial budget from the next budget. Where's the legal budget? He's gone. He's not here because you need to influence over the salary of that unfortunate Vukcevic, the special prosecutor for war crimes, on this Mrdak, his deputy. You need special courts, special judges. You set them double and three times the salary of other honest and honest judges who are probably more capable than those you've declared special forces in doing business. Specialists are because they carry out special tasks for Carla del Ponte, for the US, for NATO, for all those who support Boris Tadic in this election campaign. So we do not allow you to deceive Serbian citizens. Our amendment is fully in line with the views of the SRS – the only way for the judicial branch of government to be absolutely independent in doing its job is to have the budget. We have the agenda and the law on court fees. You're increasing your court fees again. The court fees have reached such a level that citizens do not dare to sue or judge for something where they really have reasons because their court fees and court fees are more expensive than what they want to prove their right in court. So you're just calling this the Department of Justice's technical work. No, we Serbian radicals call this the direct influence of the Democratic Party of Boris Tadic and his ministers on the part of the judiciary, which you can influence. It's them, I remind you, that they were secretaries of farming cooperatives, so you made them judges. I have nothing against the Secretary of the Agricultural Cooperatives or the Agricultural Cooperatives, but someone who has no experience, no traineeship, in court can be the President of the Court. I remind you of those you appointed at the same session of the Assembly as judges, and 10 minutes after that for the Presidents of the Court. Now, these are the ones you influence, Mr Cvetkovic, those are the ones who still won't say Boris Tadic lied to the citizens of Serbia when he promised to solve the Bodrum affair, but I will discuss it with another amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14558	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) I suggest we discuss another amendment and leave the other amendments for tomorrow. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to article 18. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity not only to my colleague Zoran Despotovic, who wrote this amendment, but also to all the believers, to congratulate the glory of St. Nicholas. I will explain the amendment my esteemed colleague, Zoran Despotovic, submitted to article 19 requesting that article be deleted. Otherwise, in order for citizens to know what Article 19 is about, Article 19 reads: "The officer who manages the work of the direct beneficiary of the budget may, with the consent of the Government, transfer to the Director of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate the authority to make available to the approved appraisals established by this law, which relate to capital investments and the maintenance of facilities owned by the Republic of Serbia, except for capital investments from the NIP. "Here it is immediately imposed, but in the first sentence, the word - functioner. I'm really interested right now, and I'm sure a lot of others, too, what that means. Is that a party official, an DS official? It could also be a functioner at a football club or anything. In particular, the functioner is a high calling but does not have any concrete weight or has exactly this description of calling, expertise or anything. A functioner as a functioner doesn't even have to be a professional person, but is simply in that function. So, in the position itself, because it is located there, because the official is given so much authority and it is said that the official who manages the work of the direct beneficiary of the budget can, with the consent of the Government, transfer to the Director of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate the authority to make available to the approved appraisals established by this law, which concerns capital investments and the maintenance of facilities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm wondering, what does this mean? This means literally that a government official, which could really cause suspicion... And the immediate question arises is whether he is an obedient; the official must be the listener of the party that has delegated him. Whether these funds will really be transferred to that director, how it will be, whether it will be with some background. There is a possibility of manipulation, and there are strong doubts that these funds will not be directed where they need to be and that they will not be spent adequately. This shows the purpose of this article, because the government will manipulate literally budget funds and it appears to cover everything with legal regulations. The question arises whether certain conditions under which the official, whom you refer here as the official who manages the work of direct beneficiaries of the budget, can address the Government for obtaining consent to transfer funds to the director of the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. Now, what are the criteria, how will he explain to the government that the government will give him permission to direct these funds but not to touch NIP funds? That is absolutely not to be, Gilas will pick everything up, share, spend on the DS campaign, Tadic, although citizens will know very well and already know that Tomislav Nikolic is the only real representative and candidate for Serbia's president; regardless of the money you will focus on the Tadic campaign, citizens already know. It is now really imposed that this constellation of your members is all over the party hierarchy; the government is here, the official is from your party, he's in the lower instance, he's simply directing money, and where that money will end, we'll see. I'll explain later and this concept of yours where you're going to direct the money. In this way, the director of the Republic Directorate is given huge powers and free hands to spend huge funds, and citizens at the local level can best see where and how much they manipulate them. That's exactly when you look at the municipal budgets. This is a truly perfidious member and allows him to question the correctness of these decisions and to question where the money will be spent. But through this article, you wanted to cover it all, to make it all look legal and legal and to cover yourself through legitimacy. However, if we go back a little bit, these are the funds used and will be used exclusively for political purposes, when the government estimates it is necessary for survival in power. By erasing this member, it would prevent this kind of budget manipulation. These budget funds would be visible and easier to check by the authorities, as well as Serbian citizens. In this way, the government leaves the possibility of doubting the way people's money is available. I would also like to take the opportunity to fulfil my obligation to my colleague Despotovic, who has repeatedly pointed out in your presence, Mr. Minister, the problem of the border crossing in the apple. He said that, he pointed to the problem on several occasions both you and the Ministry of Agriculture; and he addressed the police because it was a major problem at the border crossing of the Apple between Serbia and Montenegro. There is a real illogicality at the border crossing of the Apples, and I will link it to these funds that you extract from the part of the Republic's Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I see they've separated 2,900,000 dinars for the reconstruction of the Horgos border crossing. The SRS has nothing to do with it, Mr. Minister, to fix the situation at the Horgos border crossing, far from it, and it should all be arranged and repaired, but we need to know that Serbia is bordering Montenegro, so this apple crossing... Now I'm going to tell you specifically why. I've been to Prepolje these days, and I've been going through it. There's one big absurd on the apple. You have our border crossing, so you have five kilometers, let's say, of no one's land, and only then comes the Black Mountain Station. Now you see how now the citizens who want to cross, to come five kilometers, so they're going, and that's mostly the crossing where people cross, wear food products, although, I must stress, at that border crossing of the apple, no one can carry any agricultural product... You can't take any agricultural product across that border crossing, only those who somehow manage to pay 18% of the VAT on the goods they use. Believe me, you were really expected to put this border crossing on you and that it would settle. Here, I'll give you a concrete example: "Savo is a gentleman whom everyone... The honest, the best farmer and farmer there, known for the production of potatoes. He can never go and sell that potato in Montenegro because it is simply not physically possible to do so, and secondly, it is forbidden to transfer goods. It's something you could really do... We don't mind that you singled out the funds to revitalize the facility on Horgos, but you could have done this. This is the problem you've been facing for a long time. I'm going to tell you that the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia's payments amount to 88 million, that it has a constant cost of 107,500,000. That's a really big cost. And what standardly appears through the budget is contracted services and current repairs and maintenance, and then we have a specification of what you've given the money for. Buildings and construction buildings - an appraisal of 484 million dinars, intended for the construction of a complete RTS facility on Avala. No one will tell you not to invest, because the Aval Tower was a symbol of Belgrade. We all know that this tower was recognizable, but you have to say, Mr. Minister, that you know who knocked down that tower, and not just this tower, so now the Serbian people are paying for everything your friends have brought down. They bombed this country, so innocent people died when NATO's aggressors, 18 of them in the coalition, bombed us. In the end, the Serbian people are detached from the budget for what your friends are... I say, your friends, because they support you and on their wings you came to power on October 5th. Now the Serbian people are paying for this. The Aval Tower should exist, and it's great to boost the signal, but to be the service of citizens, not the service of one or two parties. Citizens need to know that this amount of money has been allocated because NATO villains have knocked down this tower and will now have to pay. For reconstruction and adaptation of the business building of the Business Registers Agency, an amount of 2,900,000 dinars is foreseen. That money goes there, these funds will focus, and then that official will be able to channel these funds and make someone rich through the works, take the money. And we are coming into an absurd situation that Serbs from Pljevlja, Prijepolje, apples cannot cross the border towards Montenegro. Explain to us, Mr. Minister, how much financial resources it took to move this apple point 5km towards the Montenegrin border, so that people can simply cross the border in a minute. It is obvious that your authority does not think of citizens living in the peripheral parts of Serbia, in the so-called Devasted areas, in translation - desolated and impoverished areas; e, there is already a completely different situation. If Serbia comes down to what you imagine -- Belgrade, New Belgrade and all this construction -- that's not true. That is not true at all, Serbia is at the borders that exist now. We can be dissatisfied with the Serbian radicals because we have our theory of great Serbia. I'm telling you, Mr. Minister, you could've singled out the money for this, but it's obvious the government doesn't care, and not just the government. Fortunately, there will be elections on January 20th, so the citizens of all Serbia, and you will see what I have told you, the Serb animal in these municipalities and Muslim in the Raski area will vote for Tomislav Nikolic, because they have recognised who cares for the people and who will invest the funds. I am sure 20 will recognize who the real president is, who will take care of the interests of all citizens of Serbia, not only in Serbia, but also in the diaspora, and of the citizens who live well, and of the poorest that you have brought to this end. The right man, the real host, is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a candidate for the Serbian Radical Party, which you will see on January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14560	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I would like to give my word to Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14561	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, I would like to address you and make some observations, perhaps answers or comments to what I heard today. In fact, since it turned out yesterday that I couldn't pick up, I would have included part of the debate that was held yesterday. At the same time, I would like to thank the Parliament for working within the agenda to the greatest extent, with very little appeal to the Rules of Procedure, and that the discussions were mainly about the amendments, although some were a little wider, but it was still very good. I'd concentrate on what was connected to the agenda. Yesterday there was a discussion about a debt that appeared to the military in a broader sense, whether it was civilian faces, active faces, pensioners, etc. The question has been asked whether this budget predicted it, with the non-believer that he could have covered it. I'm familiar with this problem, I've had a few conversations with these associations, but we haven't been able to see the size of that problem yet. In the opinion of these people, this is a huge number of type 800m euros, etc., so that this budget covers only one modest part that is expected to go next year. If all of this turns out to be as it is said, then we would have to plan one approach, which would have started since 2009, to accept it as one public debt in the same way as the restitution, as is now an old foreign currency savings. Furthermore, yesterday there were talks about recapitalisation and there you apostrophe of a few things: Commercial Bank, Postage Savings, and also the House Loan Insurance Corporation, so it was mixed here around the agency this or that. Of course, we can have different views on all these issues, but the bottom line is about the following: you have options to do something and not do something and depending on what you do, such effects will be. So we have a Commercial Bank where the state is not majority, but one of the major shareholders; the state itself is directly owned by over 40%. We have a professional investor here with 25%. So these two shareholders are holding a majority piece in that bank and that bank is currently one of our strongest banks. It expands to surrounding markets, such as Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Macedonia, and within that, the bank's authorities have decided that due to all these needs and developments, they are going into recapitalisation. So now we're in the option of saying yes, we're going to participate in that recapitalisation, or -- no, we're not going to participate. Although this can be wrapped up in various expert discussions, the effect is simply this: if we do not participate, someone else will participate, and one who will participate will increase their participation and our participation will fall. What we have advocated in this budget is not to win some new participations in the Commercial Bank, but to retain our participation and, in this sense, the proposal to provide for participations in the capitalisation to the level of current participation. We can say, okay, we're giving it up, somebody else get in. It's the same option, but we need to be aware that this option causes our participation to go down and that one minute we can be a far-reaching minority partner no one will ask. We don't think that's a good option, especially if it's a bank in expansion and that every participation allows us to charge the funds we invest multiplely if we want to do it at some point. As for the Post Office, the situation is very similar. The post office is in a bad situation and it will practically be cured by this recapitalisation and will be able to play a very important role in the period ahead. We, of course, can make a decision not to enter the recapitalisation, to release the Post Office, to open up the issue of its functioning. She serves the mass of pensioners and so on, and what happens next, I wouldn't want to speculate. In any case, the decision given by this budget is that we participate in this capitalisation and that through this recapitalisation we allow the Postage Savings Officer to stand on his feet. We still have programs on how to further develop it in a positive way. Also, there was a question about the recapitalisation of the Housing Credit Insurance Corporation. So we let go of one line that allowed a wider circle of interested people to come up with favourable, well-performed loans, and that was a very favourable influence, and on the other hand people were very happy that they were given one such opportunity. Of course, when you provide loans you have to have some capital behind that insurance. We've exhausted the opportunity we had with the existing capital, and the question is whether or not to continue. One option is to finish the recapitalisation, keep it going in the next year, and the other option is, put it in an ad act and let that company stop working or call some privateer on the side to get him in. Believe me, there's a lot of privates like that, and they'd be dying to get into a company like that. Of course, we've made a decision that we should support this firm, but it's also possible that the decision that was proposed - that we withdraw and give to someone else. We don't think that's good. So that's a short story about these capitalizations. We've had a lot of debates about this famous budget system law, whether it's inconsistencies with that law, whether it makes any sense, legal or not. I wouldn't go into legal formulations, because I don't consider myself very competent, but the explanation says that this amendment that has been given to disrupt some balance that is necessary in a professional and professional sense and because of the disturbance and balance these amendments are not accepted. We've heard here a statement that it's not quite true because the amendments are part of a wider story and that if it were taken not individually, but 10 or 15 of them, that it would then come together, which is probably true; I haven't tried, maybe it is so looking at a package of these amendments, but individually they don't really fit. In addition, in many cases there are requirements for some changes, texting, which are completely different from the point of view. Here, I'll give you an example. For example, it is proposed that the position on the sixth is re-tegorised in the fourth position, let me say, that the purchase of domestic financial assets is transferred to subsidies. It's completely different things. It must be understood that the grant from the point of view of the budget represents a definitive cost, and that is the cost. So, the subsidy, that simply means a gift in Serbian. You gave someone something, you gave them something, he took it, you don't have it anymore, and that's your expense. If you're going to purchase that financial asset, which sounds a little ruckus, but that's the formal name of that position, you're essentially not giving anyone anything. You invest money and become the owner of something. The word "procurement" itself means you got something. When you go to the supermarket and get some bread, you haven't spent anything. You spend only when you eat that bread, and as long as it is with you, then you are in the same situation as before its purchase. Also, there have been objections to the reduction of individual positions, at the expense of some others. I would have pulled out as the characteristic of the one that was given and it's about the incentive of agriculture, which I think is very good, but it's been suggested to cut the funds for the railroad. It should be borne in mind that the railway is, unfortunately, we would like it not to be, in a situation where the pay fund is financed from the budget. The money provided essentially covers employees' expenditures, which are around 20,000. Now you say in your proposal - take off those money, so give it to the farm. It's okay in agriculture, but I believe that people working on the railways would be very excited to know that they've had 20% of their salaries coming from the budget. So, when you're making such suggestions, it would be good to talk to the rest ministers and see what this is all about. It seems to me that one of the main reasons why the amendments are rejected is that it is not in line with them. It's possible they have savings somewhere and it wouldn't be a problem to accept it. There was one question about the amount of the budget and its growth, i.e. to be precise, the revenue in the budget that was estimated to be very low - 9.9%, given that inflation will be between 9 and 10% this year, and plus we have GDP growth of about 7%, which is said to be around 15 or 16%, and the revenues themselves are growing by less than 10%, so these nominal figures look unmatched. That remark is basically correct. However, this is actually about that we in the incomes that served as a basis for comparison in 2007 had one item called the third licence, which practically raised income to an unreal level this year. When you get that third license out and you cut that income to a real level, compare the revenue that was planned in 2008, then growth is not 9.9%, but it's very similar to what we're talking about right now -- so, about 16% or 17%. Furthermore, there was a large number of complaints relating to agencies, to be abolished, to erase their funding, to change their names, and basically these remarks were one negative attitude towards agencies, whether these are now some new power centres that are independent, etc. I think that attitude is a political attitude and I wouldn't answer that. What is certain is that the budget is not the place where they are abolished. So there are laws that these agencies have been set up and if someone thinks they shouldn't exist, just stop those laws and when you cut the budget they'll automatically throw out those numbers without any problems. So the budget is a reflection of something regulated by other regulations. There were questions about the transfer funds and an example of Bora was cited, that they had received less funds. I have to tell you, it's true that Bor received less funding this year. I was also wondering why, however, you must understand that the distribution of funds from the republican budget to local self-government was not left for the arbitration assessment of the minister or his associates at the finance ministry, but a complicated model was created which was impartial in relation to any individual local self-government. So it's a model that exists in the vault; you have input parameters, you have a number and on the basis of input parameters that are the characteristic of all these municipalities and based on the total figures, the output is generated to all municipalities. What I can promise you is that for every municipality, or local self-government that wants to know what these parameters are and how they are defined, please give me a request, I will give you these original lists to look at and see how this model works and why there has been an increase, reductions, etc. I can give you that. Of course, I think that this environment is much better than a minister or someone else can share, some like it, some like it, so it's a model thing, with a commission led by our ministry representative, and otherwise by representatives of different parties. It was a question of whether the VMA was being incorporated into our health system. That's the question you asked today. I can inform you that a change in the plan of a network of health institutions has been made in the Government and, within that change, VMA should enter into the system as of 1 January 2008, that is when the Republic of the Health Insurance Community will conclude contracts with VMA and will then follow the rights that arise... I don't know the details, if you want more details, do a parliamentary question, and we'll get it to you. But this is the information I have. Also, certain objections and proposals have been made, particularly by minority representatives, to remove some 10 million from some positions, etc. However, I must say this: we are in a phase where slowly from so-called. Liner budgeting is moving on to programming budgets. The programming budgets are such that instead of making the total items as much as it takes to pay, for costs, for this and for that, there are essentially some kind of mini-projects, each of which has its own individual items, and the sum of these mini-projects represents the activity of one ministry. It's called program budgets. We have five ministries with programming budgets this year. So that's new, in the future we'll have all the programs. The proposals they made referred to the Ministry of Religion and the Ministry of Education, which are exactly the ministries with the programming budgets. With programming budgets, you can't pull an item out of one program. You have to say, I don't need the whole program, I'm substituting it with another program. If you extract an item from one program, you knock down the program and create those other items. So, I'm talking to you, you should have come out, if you want some special program, and you say -- we don't need this program, instead of that program, we suggest that you agree with the rest ministers, and there wouldn't be any problem with that being accepted. By the way, you asked to reduce the diet in the homes by a certain amount, which was, of course, unacceptable. We have a series of questions about Vojvodina. I'd only give the next answer, and since we'll see each other tomorrow, I'll look for some more details. So, the Constitution itself says that the Vojvodina budget is calculated to some percentage, that's 7% of the budget. We said the budget doesn't have a clear definition. We've given the budget to essentially represent budget expenditures, and budget expenditures are, according to this year, about 650 billion, which means that the Vojvodina budget should be seven times six, about 45-46 billion, you can figure it out yourself. That's how we see that amount. Where he's gonna charge from, that's another thing now, there's various items. Looking at what, at least on the side of the Republic's budget and other sources from the Republic, to come, I think it will almost certainly be bigger, so we will justify what is said - at least 7%, especially if you have in mind that half of the DDOR's funds, which will be implemented in 2008, will be transferred, and this is still not so little for the Vojvodina budget. I've been a little longer than I intended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14562	I thank Mr. Secretary. Here you go. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14563	I'm going to make three remarks very briefly that really wouldn't be right for me to leave for tomorrow. So we're still gonna talk about this, but it's basic -- who is and for what reasons has he made the decision to capitalize on the Commercial Bank and the Post Office, and in time he gave up his participation in the National Savings Bank? The government in the same composition, I think of the political composition, has decided in its own time to leave the National Savings Centre so that Mr Dinkic and the team that formed it in a false name and abuse of state money would draw enormous profits. What am I worried about today? The paw over the Commercial Bank has Dinkic again. You say - the managing authority has made a decision on the recapitalisation. Who makes the managing authority of the Commercial Bank, if the state of Serbia has a 24-25% stake? So, your delegated representatives, and in the jurisdiction of the Deposit Insurance Agency, must have an impact on that decision. I have the right to doubt, due to the damage to the budget and the money of all citizens, that Mr Dinkic has re-evaluated the possibility of selling the state's money better to the young woman, and how money will be spent tomorrow, we will not have clear accounts about it again. Why do I doubt it? Who made the decision to sell three sugars for three euros each? But a debt of 20m euros to NIS, as the buyer's assumed commitment, a political friend of the then-to-be Executive Council of Vojvodina, Mr Kostic and Canka, was found to be controversial, and today, not debates are being held, but disputes. So, the NIS Public Enterprise, which benefits benefits from this state, and at the expense of the budget, forgives the debt, and whoever bought the candy for three euros and took the debt has not settled the debt to the state. Not generally and in principle, and I am individually concerned that the state is always suffering damage and always the budget remains short for the amount of these and such capitalisations. So the bank's body is not independent of the state. Or he acts the same as the government's authority in Mobtel, where none of these board members protected the property of PTT Serbia and the state's Public Enterprise. Second of all, you say, the acquisition of financial assets and subsidies. Mr. Minister, it is difficult for me to carry the purse; position 621 says - the purchase of financial assets, the same basket has loans and shares. You say it's not subsidies, it's not a gift. We deliberately ask that agriculture be a gift, that pensions for farmers be a gift. From your position, I don't know if it's a stock purchase or if it's a loan, as in the position -- I don't know what a donation is, what a loan is, and what it's actually covering these budget costs. It's that remark that's been coming out since day one. You can't say - I have 100 dinars, if it's out of those 100 dinars 50 credits, 20 gifts, and only 30 is what the citizens are earning. I also have an objection to what you say is a programming part of the budget. You can't suggest a programming part of the budget, and you're not strategies, which the Budgetary System Act provides for, as well as a conjecture budget. Should they adopt? As far as I know, only energy has a development strategy. So, you have to go before this assembly, and I have an amendment to that, as the Government suggest, we adopt, and then it's about spending the programming budget. But if I don't, we'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-19-0.u14564	Thank you. We've stopped by the amendment to be a member of the 20th People's MP, John Daya. Have a good afternoon. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Mujo Mukovic, Munir Poturak, Milorad Belic, Vladan Vukicevic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am taking this opportunity to wish, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the happy Kurban Bayram to all MPs and all citizens of the Muslim religion. Before we move to work on the details of the first item of the agenda -- draft law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP PetarKuntic.
