ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am delaying the beginning of the session by 11 o'clock until the Management Board completes its work. [[After break – 11.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the second session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 196 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 108 MPs present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dacic, Milan Nikolic and Andreja Galgo-Ferenci. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have scheduled this session for Friday, 25 May 2007, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the urgent adoption of the proposed laws, to prevent the adverse consequences of the work of the national authorities, as well as the need for the National Assembly to complete the constitution of its bodies and bodies as soon as possible. You have received the resignations of Verica Kalanovic, Nenad Krstic and Dusan Prorokovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports of the National Assembly's Administrative Board for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 1 and Article 2 and Article 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the time was up for the elected MPs: Verica Kalanovic and Nenadu Krstic, elected from the election list G 17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkic and Dusan Prorokovic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. I'm taking a 30-minute break, so that the Administrative Committee and the Republic Election Commission can hold their meetings. The work continues at 11.40 p.m. I'm asking the Administrative Board to hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1531	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Dulic tried to read and what he would do later would not have been disputed if something had not happened the night the government of the Republic of Serbia was elected. Since then, I am not sure whether there is at all a need to realize that some MP is resigning or not, since it is common for people to vote here, especially for themselves, at a time when they are no longer MPs. In accordance with Article 226, I quote this member, as the new president is concerned, I ask him to take care that this time does not count on me in the debate: 'The National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and the competences of the authorities on which they are located, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the National MP. ''So, according to the member I just quoted, I ask Minister Dusan Petrovic to answer the question immediately, which is why he voted as a citizen for himself. He resigned as MP, after which, Mr Petrovic, you voted to be minister, you voted for other colleagues. I'm asking you to explain to the National Assembly why you did it, who put you up to it. If you weren't in legal error, since we had all such cases in this House under the auspices of the DOS majority, we also had a doctor of legal science, of course a plagiarist, who was in legal error, we also had an affair with Bodrum. I remind you, since you from the Democratic Party like to deceive the public, so you say, the Bodrum affair is over in court, no, that's what I'm saying for the public. In court, Mr. Alen Selimovic was sentenced to prison sentences for several months, conditional on two or three years, but not because he voted with the Nede Arneric card, but because he voted, if true, unlike ministers and Boris Tadic, I do not comment on first-degree rulings, but in any case, it was a card from Natasa Milojevic. The Neda Arneric card and the role of Bojan Pajtic in falsifying the then election remained a secret, still not resolved before the court. Boris Tadic deceived Serbia's public when he said he left it to the court to discuss it. The court hasn't made that decision yet. And, in order not to let Boris Tadic admit before some elections that Mr. Petrovic, Djelic and his other foreign ministers voted without being MPs, so I ask that Mr. Petrovic immediately explain to us how he happened to vote at the moment he was not a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1532	Thank you. Mr Dusan Petrovic, minister of justice, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1533	Since a formal legal issue is being raised, I will be very happy to explain it, and the MPs of the SRS know it very well. I don't mind opening today's session of the assembly this way. They know because on the eve of the vote we talked about and they have a very clear idea of how there was a vote on the government's election, who voted, whether it was a quorum or not. There are two important moments in a statement by parliament on the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first moment is the vote. All persons who had the parliamentary mandate had the right to declare the government's trust, i.e. the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, including those MPs who, as proposed at the time, were proposed to the minister by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. At that moment, I was an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I was proposed as minister of justice, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I voted in favour of the proposal. As much as I remember 120 or 130 and several MPs voted in favour of the proposal. After the vote, the government took office at the time when it took an oath before the National Assembly, or before the President, at the time. After the vote on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with these three fellow Members who were MPs and are now ministers in the government, we signed resignations on parliamentary terms because we did not want to take an oath as MPs and become ministers. Although there is a very clear interpretation that even if we hadn't taken those resignations by the act of taking an oath, the law would have suspended our parliamentary mandate. However, here again and to answer this question, we voted as MPs, after the vote we signed resignations and as MPs in resignations, so we were no longer MPs, we took an oath, and at that moment we became members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so we did not commit any violations. You know all that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1534	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Just please, if you're answering the Rules of Procedure, quote a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1535	You've got the president of justice you deserve. Mr. Secretary, it would be nice if you could explain to us how it is time to resign 23.30 hours and voting time 23.31 hours. And you claim to have resigned after taking the oath, which was at 23.40 and a few hours. So you took an oath first, so at 23.31, you voted in favour of the government's election. I repeat again because of viewers who have common sense, and you don't. Mr Petrovic resigned as a MP at 23.30 p.m. It's a document from the National Assembly, which says 23.30 hours. Mr Petrovic, if you were no longer an MP then - you had no right to vote. If you were an MP, you couldn't be elected minister, so you have no excuse for this at all. After the vote, a break was made, so after the break, the oath was slow. You're here now claiming that only after you've taken your oath to resign. You just said it here. Mr. Petrovic, you are an unworthy minister of justice because you directly influenced the verdict in the case of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. The process is under way, only a first-degree verdict has been issued. You, Mr. Minister, have already affected the further course of the trial, commended the judges who gave the first degree judgment, commended them for their courage, which means you've directly interfered in the process. I'm asking you, since the re-election of all judges follows, what are the judges going to do on the second-degree council, which you might be accusing of not having the courage? Whether they should even be allowed to engage in a process that is before the first degree or they will have to confirm the verdicts, in order to commend them too to have courage and to count on them to have a salary after the election of new judges. A very serious failure, Mr. Petrovic, motivated by party reasons. I'm done. I'm sorry. Every citizen of Serbia is in the interest of the murderers being found, to be convicted by law, not at the will of the government, at the will of the ministers, not at the will of the Democratic Party, who has made clear to the public that he wants to influence the measures spoken, at least in a way that at the moment of his sentence all MPs appear in court or in court, and even insult families of the first degree convicted and their small children. So everyone's child deserves care and attention, everyone's child and every child. Because if we were to share children in this way, then, as the government changes, one child would cry, and the other one would laugh, and I would like no child to cry when power changes. So, Mr. Minister, don't rewrite the stenographic notes, take notes to see what you just said about this pay phone, and then we'll determine if your voice is even relevant. Without your votes, there were two more votes for the government's election. These were two representatives of minorities who were not in the government, but voted for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1536	Mr. Nikolic, time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1537	You haven't learned from me how to conduct a session. That's how you didn't need that whole joke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1538	Thank you. I ask all MPs to respect the fact that both for the replica and for the violation of the Rules of Procedure you have three minutes and to fit in at that time. He has the word Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I need to point out some facts that I assume were also known to you. I said I was speaking on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 73. I should like to tell you that the Administrative Committee is considering the reasons for the termination of the mandates of individual Members of the People's Parliament and is submitting this to the National Assembly a report, with a proposal for the appointment of the new MP, in a manner prescribed by law. Among other things, you've had opportunities for the previous two sessions of the Administrative Board to be involved in these reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1540	Mr. Todorovic, let me tell you one thing. You've been given the word as an executive of the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1541	No, I asked for a word based on the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1542	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1543	Mr Petrovic, you were, then, familiar with the facts regarding the resignation of a number of MPs who were to be proposed for ministers. That this is true and an attempt to schedule a session of the Administrative Committee, which I was invited to as well as other members of the Administrative Committee, where MPs' resignations were to be considered which were to be proposed for ministers. So there's nothing controversial about it. The matter has already been agreed and what MPs they are. It was just a matter of how you'd do it and you could do it without a big problem. You could have done it two ways. In such a way as to suggest that on Tuesday, when the first session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled at 9.30 p.m., your resignations arrived, that the Administrative Committee should consider them, that this should be submitted to the Republic of Election Commission, that the RIK adopt those resignations and verify the mandates of the MPs proposed by your party. There wouldn't be any problem. It would be a perfectly common and normal way of functioning both the Administrative Board and the Assembly, and no one would question the way you did it. That would be totally fine. Even if you hadn't done so, you could have waited for a complete procedure for the election of members of the government to be completed and that, after that, under the Law on the selection of MPs, because of the incompatibility of functions, because you can't be a minister and an MP at the same time, you would resign and no one would blame you on that matter. We resent you for doing it that way. Why in every job are you trying in some way to twist, cheat, deceive? You want to be honest, so you're not supposed to resign, but you voted as an MP, which is physically impossible based on the time recorded when that resignation arrived. So you had two simple options to end up with no problem at all. But since Bodrum, it is not clear to you from Thessalonica - you should not deceive the National Assembly. You should work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, and there would be no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1544	Thank you. Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1545	One more time, I'm just gonna do what I said. So all current ministers who were from the Democratic Party, who were at the DS parliamentary club, voted first for the government, were part of the government's proposal and were our four ministerial positions. After that, we resigned. Of course, we are fully prepared to carry out the determination of all facts. There's a huge number of witnesses, I think it's all recorded here, and it can be very easy to get from the TV archives, that we signed resignations here before we took the oath, and after the vote for the government. I really don't see a single reason why we can't determine all the facts that matter, and I'm willing to participate in any process that will lead to these facts being determined. I'll take the opportunity to say just two or three sentences about the verdict that's been made, because here's the open question. I didn't say one word about punishment. I didn't comment on the verdict. I have commented on a very complex and difficult situation in which our country and our judiciary were located. This procedure is, in my opinion, the most complicated in the legal-technical sense that our judiciary has ever led. This very difficult legal-technically, in a procedural and material-law sense, procedure is being conducted on very complex social occasions and I have given recognition to the judicial council because this great state business has succeeded in bringing to an end, on the occasions when the President of the Judicial Council is changed and when we all together, as MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and anyone who is engaged in public work, should have a very large satisfaction because we as a state have shown that we can deal with very difficult legal situations and with very difficult procedures to deal with. There is no one but the second-degree council of the Supreme Court, and if the procedural conditions are created for it, and the third-degree council, who can give a relevant assessment of whether the verdict is in accordance with the law, whether the Code of Criminal Procedure is respected, whether the Criminal Code is respected. It will, of course, be done by those who are empowered by the Constitution and by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1546	Thank you very much. He has the word Tomislav Nikolic. I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'd just like to ask you to quote a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1547	Minister, Serbia has had such a process. It was a process against Draža Mihailovic, led in the same way, a verdict also made thanks to the will of the powerful. So you're not the precedent, and your ancestors did it when they tried Draži Mihailovic. There is another thing: you must not declare your judgments or speak of judges who have spoken judgments. If you'd said the judges didn't have the courage, it would have been interpreted in a way that they couldn't have freed them. When you say they had the courage, it's interpreted in a way -- it's a good thing they were convicted. It's not yours, Mr. Minister. I even allow MPs to do that. MPs can do so, as can the citizens of Serbia. They sit at the bar and say, "I mean, he got a little bit, I mean a lot, I mean, I didn't have to invite the organizers to investigate the whole murder, the background of the murder, the preparation of the murder." That's what citizens can do. The Minister of Justice can't do that. No minister can do that, not just the minister of justice. Because each of your public words is a direct pressure on someone. And when you put that pressure on someone who's independent in their work, then you're completely different from the most important postulate in the Constitution. After all, the verdict against these children who have glued posters to buildings on a street in Belgrade is a direct interference with the judiciary. How could you not be interested? They are punished by the point by which beggars or general challengers of public peace are punished. No citizen rebelled when they were glued, except for you MPs who get paid for it, and no one in Serbia has rebelled that some street will be called General Ratko Mladic Street, no one. You immediately, watch this, you've invited them to an informative conversation even though they've been convicted of a misdemeanor, so now tell me as the minister of justice who's the judge of the offender calls for an informative conversation. You'll have to engage in some things, so you know what's going on. Why are they immediately referred to the maintenance of the sentence, for the offence, without appeal, no, but immediately to the maintenance of the sentence, who radicals in Gjilan. Does that look like a gjilan case, when radicals were arrested on the street, taken to court for violations, and in the morning from there straight to jail? Learn a little about the Minister's mistakes. I even understand your human motives for some behavior, but now the law has directed you not to do what you want, but only what's allowed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1548	Time, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1549	I'm sorry. What you've done in the last two days is not allowed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1550	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Todorovic. I'm just asking you to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1551	Mr. Chairman, with pleasure, I'd just like this time to be stopped, so it'll only start when I start talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1552	It'll be included.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1553	Article 225 - People's MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. Since Mr Tomislav Nikolic has already raised the issue here yesterday's event, namely the arrest and conviction of some young people in New Belgrade, I apologize. Whether, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me or whether this left side of me is upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1554	You've got two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1555	I'm just asking you a question, gentlemen of the Parliament, is this a reason to arrest and condemn young men who have glued posters like this? Just to remind you, you at least brought 30,000 signatures from citizens who wanted to, so they talk, who wanted to change Bulevar AVNOJ Street and that his name is Dr. Zoran Djindjic. Then why didn't you arrest those who arranged that petition? This is a simple act of people who think that street can be called a different street. What kind of law did they break? There's one more thing I need to tell you. You're worse than your 2000 predecessors. In 2001, in April, they headed through Belgrade and across Serbia for a specific "DOS worst" password, as very soon the citizens realized that there was no worse political group on the Serbian scene than DOS. I draw your attention that at that time some of your ranks, as they also began to arrest those who had glued and who had written those passwords, began to arrest them and were already preparing to respond criminally, even some have sought criminal punishment. However, some of your ranks, some who have been in OTPOR, who spent the whole 2000 writing passwords, which has been the usual way of communicating with political parties in this country since 1990, have rebelled against it, said that in no case should the state treat those who express their political opinion in such a way. You're the one who made an express invitation to an informative conversation yesterday and convicted people of 20, 30 jail sentences and I don't know how many days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1556	Thank you. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MPs for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Jovan Nesovic and Ivan Zivadinovic, elected from the Electoral List G17 Plus Mladjan Dinkic, and Djorđa Mamuli, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Jovan Nesovic, Ivan Zivadinovic and Djorđa Mamuli. Congratulations to the MPs of choice. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed putting the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, they did not vote 73 out of 197 MPs. I find the proposal to consider this law as an emergency procedure has been accepted. The government proposed putting the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 7, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundji, based on Article 90(3) and corresponding to Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda - a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as a joint search on the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda - the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 129, six out of 134 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 130, it did not vote 6, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Code on Criminal Procedures by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was filed by the Government; 3. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 4. The appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions: - the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the NATO Assembly, - the Assembly of the Western European Union, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, - the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Orthodox, - the Interparliamentary Union, - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean and - the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative. Work according to established agenda. We move to the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE (together in principle) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica 56 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group SPS 19 minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group "Liberal Democratic Party" 13 minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities -- the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the List of Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley seven minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM six minutes and MPs - one nation of five minutes, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been informed that the SRS parliamentary group under the points 1 and 2 of the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 will represent MP Petar Jojic. I would also like to inform you that according to the same agenda points, the LDP parliamentary club will represent Professor Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Dusan Petrovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1557	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this House adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure in May last year. This code represents a fundamental change in criminal-processing legislation compared to the state of affairs we had before its adoption, with a very large shift and with a very large deviation from our criminal-processing tradition. This law, due to its importance, also had specific provisions regarding its entry into force and of course regarding its application. According to that decision made by this assembly, the Code of Criminal Procedure was to be introduced in the application of June 1st of 2007, therefore, within a few days. Among other things, in the light of this law, this fact is important because of the creation of preconditions so that such a complex legal act, a complex law, could be implemented in life, and unfortunately, it is not intended for the allocation of appropriate funds, so no money was provided for in the 2006 budget rebalancing, nor in the 2007 draft budget, although the draft budget has never entered this Parliament for discussion and we are now in temporary financing status, and these are important facts and will explain why. There are, in the government's deep confidence, two very important reasons why it is necessary to make a decision to postpone the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The first reason is material nature and refers to the conditions that are necessary for all those who, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, play a role in criminal proceedings to be able to consume all their powers and that the criminal proceedings in Serbia could be applied by achieving their basic objectives, namely the fight against crime, the fight against criminal offences, the conduct of criminal proceedings, with the protection of all the Constitution and all relevant international conventions of protected rights that citizens in this procedure must have. Another large group of reasons is the need for one such legal act, as well as other laws, but also the Code of Criminal Procedure, as a law that is very important for the protection of citizens' rights, to be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was, in the meantime, passed from the adoption of this law until the time when it should begin to be applicable, which is June 1st of this year. As I said, the Code of Criminal Procedure should give rise to major changes in the principles on which criminal-processing law and criminal-processing practice were established. In Serbia, it is already a tradition and it is a tradition of a large number of countries in Europe, in criminal law, the principle of legality, therefore, that the state authorities responsible for criminal prosecutions, which are public prosecutors, are not able to decide whether or not some perpetrators are going to prosecute. When they have in any way been informed that a criminal offence has been committed, the competent prosecutors are obliged to act on these findings and to initiate criminal proceedings. This code leads to a significant deviation from this principle, from the principle of legality, and opens up the possibility known in international practice, which is particularly represented in the Angolan countries, which is the possibility of parties in the process, one party is a prosecutor, and the other party is accused, that in different situations, at different legal moments, they can deviate from the principle of legality and that they agree on whether and in what way criminal proceedings will be concluded. So it's a very big one and, I dare say, a dramatic change from our legal tradition and the way the criminal justice in our country has worked to this day, and it still works today. It is very important that we all bear in mind that the implementation of such a system in life requires very significant material assumptions, from very trivial, if I may say so, to essential ones. What are fundamental assumptions is that there is an appropriate space in which the prosecutions could carry out their work and proper technical equipment. Unfortunately, from May 2006 to today, such conditions have not been created, so that with various instances, from those dealing with law enforcement in practice, to scientific institutions, they have come to the appeal that due to the absence of these material assumptions, the application of these laws is delayed. The government of the Republic of Serbia has found that it is necessary for these appeals to be met, that it is very important that criminal-processing legislation, that the Code of Criminal Procedure has no interference at all to be implemented, that prosecutors and courts have no problems in carrying out criminal proceedings, that the legal order in the state is protected, and that is the fundamental reason why I believe it is important that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code, which refers to the application and proposes that the start of application be postponed even on 31. 12. In 2008, it was adopted. Another very important fact is that Serbia has adopted a new constitution, that the new constitution, in relation to the constitution that was in force in the Constitution under which we live today and organise Serbia, in provisions concerning the protection of human rights, concerning the regulation of the principle of criminal-processing law, has been amended, and that it is very important that this code, as one of the fundamental laws on which the state rests, is in line with the Constitution. There are a large number of provisions of the Code that would be necessary to comply with the Constitution. I'll look back only on two. One is in Article 5(6), which regulates the right to defence, and the other is one member who is very much debated and when adopting the laws in this Parliament in May, a provision in Article 146, paragraph 7, which determines the possibility of competent authorities entering the apartment of persons suspected and accused of opening up the possibility of obtaining evidence. So there is a very large basis to open a debate about whether such a provision can be found in the context of our new constitutional system at all or not, and I am not going to enter into an essential explanation right now. That things are like this, I think it's very clear evidence and the fact that from the moment the law was passed, to this day, so in September 2006, a law that had already entered this assembly that had the amendment and additions of the Law for its content. Even 57 provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were to be amended, and that law did not apply. So, I think it is quite clear that there is a very great public interest, a very clear public interest, that there is a very clear state reason for protecting citizens' rights and maintaining the legal order and system of the state and justice in one of its parts, that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a competent legislative body, is to pass a law that will delay the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that for a year and a half is very important and, in my conviction, enough time to open a fundamental debate on what should look like criminal and procedural legislation in Serbia, whether it is necessary to remove from the legal tradition that exists for decades in Serbia, functions and regulates life in this area, whether there are material and all other assumptions, and above all I mean human resources, to enter into a whole new system of criminal legislation. I can say that the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will open a very broad debate, in a very short time, that will allow us to come up with a relevant answer to all these questions. And that, when the conditions are met, we bring the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution of Serbia and we come to a system of criminal-processing legislation and a regulated system of criminal-processing procedures, which will be a guarantee that criminal proceedings in Serbia will be conducted effectively, but that efficiency will not in any way compromise the rights that Serbian citizens are guaranteed by the Constitution and that we, as citizens of a country that wants to regulate their public life on the highest standards, are in a position to bring this area in line with the highest standards of civilised world. An amendment and addition of the existing Code of Criminal Procedure has been proposed within the framework of this united agenda. The code was passed in 2001 and, of course, it had amendments and additions. These changes relate to a very important area, which regulates the possibility of the accused in criminal proceedings being made available to the judiciary and proposes amendments to the regime of detention. Serbia, at the moment when the existing Code of Criminal Procedure was brought in 2001, in time and after, is a country where no one who deals with this work, nor the MPs in the National Assembly, nor the governments that were executives, and I'm sure neither the people who deal with this matter as their profession, I mean the academic public, could assume that we would be in trouble to face as a country with very complex and very difficult crimes, with very complex criminal proceedings that became our reality in 2002, 2003 and 2004, and we live in this reality today. So that all these criminal proceedings can be completed by allowing the courts to determine the material truth, by being able, on the basis of their convictions and the security application of the law, to decide whether or not the blames, which are in the indictments, are qualified and constitute the subject of the indictment, are proven or not. In order to have a fair trial system once in a river, it is necessary for the defendants, who are charged with these serious crimes, to be made available to the judiciary. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure that allow these trials to be completed so that all participants are bound and able to appear before the court, and on the other hand their civil rights are protected, because all detentions cannot last longer than the time of the sentence imposed by first-degree judgments. So, this kind of detention arrangement was also foreseen by the Code of Criminal Procedure, whose delay in application here is required. It is a solution already voted for by the Serbian Parliament in May last year. In May of the past year, as today, there were reasons for making such a decision. Of course, and that is what I want to say at the very end, the time of detention that is longer than the current Code is laid down only for the most serious crimes, for the crimes for which the 40-year prison has been threatened, for the crimes of organised crime, and for that reason, in such criminal proceedings, it is very important to provide a regular and normal course of proceedings and to allow the courts to, of course, make sure that, at the constitution, the law of course on the judicial conscience of the fortification and to make decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1558	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Goran Rakovac, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1559	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, we have a united discussion on two acts. One postpones the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, while the other is subject to amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The first act postpones the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure by 19 months. Mr. Minister has told us one reason, material and technical conditions. That's right. What the minister did not tell us is why the government did not create material and technical conditions for this law to be applied. I'm saying this for the reason that three-quarters of the government are in government right now, the minister is not, but he's carrying the government's public policy and he's talking about her work and her goals. It's interesting that the government didn't create conditions. She didn't create it because it wasn't formed in time. Had there been any desire in most which now makes the government apply laws, the government would have been formed earlier, so it would have likely tried to create material and technical conditions for the application of this law. Why is the law delayed for 19 months? We heard it indirectly from Mr. Secretary's statement. The fact is that many of the provisions of this law are incompatible with what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains and would then be fairer to say that a whole new law will be passed, rather than postponed by 19 months, because the government will obviously not create preconditions for the application of the law after 19 months, but will go to the creation of a completely new law. It's the right of the government, but it's fair for the MPs to tell it. In fact, there are other things that are related to this, let me put it this way, the first act the Assembly is discussing today in the context of this united debate. The law on criminal proceedings, which was scheduled to take effect on 1 June, provided that the prosecution's entire investigation was conducted in the criminal proceedings. Since they are not created, material, technical or organisational conditions for the prosecution to take over the task, of course, the law is delayed. As a result of the unhappiness, we will have today delayed the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It should be fair to say that over the past year, since this code was passed, a lot of legitimate criticism has been addressed to the content of the laws, a large number of scientific workers dealing with this matter have shown disagreement with this code. Also, some expert associations have criticised this code, many judges, prosecutors, lawyers have shown their critical court according to some of the solutions contained in this code. It is not good that criminal-processing legislation, which has been written under the influence of people in the European Community, is not sufficient to take care of human rights and freedoms, and in particular it is not good that the procedural situation of the suspect deteriorates compared to the current solutions. In addition, our procedural legislation must be brought into line, first of all, with our Constitution, and then with widely accepted international standards. It is likely that other fellow MPs, like us, received this letter from the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers, where it is very taxing on what they believe is not good in this code whose application is delayed. It seems to me that there are 15 and more reasons for the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, in their opinion, are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, at least fifteen other provisions that, in their opinion, refer to a reduction in the rights of the defendant and the defender. It would be good to take these remarks into account when making a new criminal code, and that should be said. I have the impression that the postponement of the application of this code will not be in agreement with what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia said in his inaugural speech as a priority, a reduction in the procedure and reform in the judiciary, because it will obviously be necessary to pass a completely new law. But it's part of our reality. The second thing is why the provisions of the existing law on the length of detention are repealed. Namely, since it is a question of how familiar Serbia's public is with what is on the agenda today, allow me to read the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, whose abolition is envisioned: "From the prosecution of detention, it may take up to two or four years for acts for which a 40-year sentence is threatened and for acts of organised crime for which a 10-year sentence of imprisonment or more severe punishment has been threatened. If no first degree verdict is given in that time, the detention will be lifted and the accused released." Item 4 of Article 146: "After giving a first degree sentence, detention may take an additional year. If no second-degree verdict has been reached in that time, the first-degree verdict is amended or confirmed, the detention will be suspended and the defendant released. If a second-degree decision is made within a year, the first-degree sentence of detention may continue for another two years from the second-degree court's ruling." We are against the abolition of these provisions of the law. We were against unlimited length of detention in 2004, when amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure were made. In addition to this argument, mentioned by Mr. Minister, there was then another minister, but the argument was similar, it was necessary to hear what was essential, why these provisions of the law were abolished, because there was clearly a political need in the then assembly majority that some people, who are being accused and who are being held in custody, would be unlimitedly extended lengths of detention, so that they would not get the opportunity to defend themselves from freedom. It means they're defending themselves from freedom. At that time, a compromise was found through an amendment that was then submitted by the SPS, an amendment that was incorporated into the draft criminal code. Today, it is proposed to abolish this amendment and, logically, we Socialists cannot accept such a solution. It's part of the length of the detention, and then we found a compromise to formulate it and to refer to acts for which a 40-year sentence has been threatened. I must say that in the amendments and additions to this December 2005 law, we were against the provisions of the laws that envisioned this part of organized crime and the 10-year sentence threatened. We think that this second provision was not appropriate at the time, and we think that the abolition of them will absolutely not contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation in the state of Serbia, especially the rights of those people to whom it applies. We believe that these provisions of the laws that are repealed are not compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and those forgetful would remind me of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia relating to detention and the duration of detention, that is, Article 30 and Article 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 30 says: "The person suspected of committing a crime may only be detained on the basis of a court decision, if detention is necessary in order to conduct a criminal proceedings". I quote Article 31: "The length of detention shall be reduced to the shortest necessary time, given the reasons for detention. The detention period laid down by the first-degree court's decision shall take place in the executive procedure for a maximum period of three months," etc. However, this formulation is very interesting -- as soon as possible. Obviously, the proposal to abolish the provisions establishing the length of detention for those offences is absolutely incompatible with the provisions of the Constitution which speak of the shortest necessary time. We are fully convinced that these provisions of the laws that have been abolished in disagreement with the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was adopted long ago in the Council of Europe. It is necessary to take a good look at Article 5 of that Convention and what the Proposer proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to see that there is absolutely no disagreement. As for the provisions of custody, I must appeal to Mr. Lawyers again. They are in this document, which has been sent to us by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as part of why this law on criminal proceedings should not apply to the mention and provisions concerning detention. Namely, they mention that, with regard to the detention of constitutional provisions, they are more precise and more concrete than in the code, since the code, and this is mentioned by Mr. Minister, contains the same provisions that will be contained if the proposal is adopted. I must say that he has another position of the Serbian Bar Association...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1560	I'm sorry, Mr. Beard. Are you using another ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1561	Thank you. There is another view of the Serbian Bar Association that says they have been reduced, in their opinion, and what lawyers, rights and freedoms of citizens say should be considered, as the term of detention has been abolished, which is essentially contrary to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I have referred to the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms which, of course, contain provisions on the establishment of the European Court of Human Rights. Lawyers say the practice of the European Court of Human Rights is the opposite. Why am I saying this? Unfortunately, based on the experience that we Socialists had after 2000, and I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is absolutely the possibility of abuse of the provisions of the laws that treat this issue. After all, we saw it in 2000 and beyond. We also saw the time of "Sabre" when 12,000 people were arrested under different circumstances. We have no essential answer to the question, nor have we received answers today, which is why these provisions are essentially abolished, so we didn't even have an answer at Sablje's time why, if the state authorities had all the information about organised criminal groups in Serbia in mid-2002, if they knew what they were dealing with, if they knew their names and last names, if they knew where they lived, where, I say, they operate, one simple question arises, why they weren't arrested. It is also the same with the provision of this law, it would be fair for the minister to tell us, which is why changes and additions to the law are adopted, to hear what criminal groups are and what individuals are concerned about. Because in this country something is wrong: either the system is wrong, the justice system is wrong, or the laws are wrong, or people who work in the judiciary are wrong, or at least one good part. It won't be that everything's great or that nothing's wrong. He's going to have to tell us one minute, given that he's in charge of the system now, what's wrong with what makes the justice system in this country. I mentioned those abuses that must have been. A couple of Socialists were then arrested in the framework of the "Sabbe" political action, as the "Sabbe" action was used to prosecute political opponents, without any explanation, held in prison and released also without any explanation. For those who are interested in the fate of these people, some of them have filed a lawsuit against the state for compensation and the state is now paying huge money to those people who were illegally detained at the time of "Sablje" and held in prison without legal grounds, but of course it is done in silence. A much larger media echo has been given the "Sabbe" action itself and the story of fighting organised crime, although unfortunately there has been a direct link between the then government and organised crime, but it is also part of Serbia's mark at the time. That there may be abuses, and we, I say, have pointed out that even then and today, I think that the best evidence and this prosecution of money, which was made by Mr. Radovanovic, a special prosecutor, and especially the way he connected things to the indictment, who he accused and for which he accused. It is necessary, I think fellow MPs need to know that in order to understand the whole point of the story and the behavior of the special prosecutor. Allow me, to quote the provisions of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, where Article 2 states that 'organised crime, within the meaning of this law, constitutes the conduct of criminal acts by an organised criminal group, or other organised groups or its members, for which the sentence of imprisonment of four years or more severe punishment is foreseen'. And Article 3: ''Under the organized criminal group referred to in Article 2 of this Act, a group of three or more persons who exist for a certain time and who act on an agreement to commit one or more crimes, for which a sentence of four years is intended or a more severe penalty for obtaining indirect or direct financial or other material benefits. Under the second organised group referred to in Article 2 of this Act, a group which is not organised in order to commit a crime directly or has such an organised structure, defined roles and continuity of its members' membership but is in the function of organised crime. ''I would remind my fellow MPs and the public of Serbia that the indictment against Mr. Mihal Kertes was filed, that the late Serbian-SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic had been indicted, that the indictment against Jovan Zebic, who, unfortunately, died two days later, had been indicted, and that the indictment against Nikola Sainovic, who could not have been prosecuted by law, could not have been tried by the domestic judiciary or by a special prosecutor, because, under the second law, the Law on the co-operation of our state with The Hague tribunal, which was adopted at the then federal level, the domestic judiciary had no jurisdiction over him. What kind of parody of law enforcement is it, of course, best spoken and followed by state authorities, when Mr. Curtis was arrested so as not to affect witnesses. But the most interesting thing in the whole story is that Mr. Curtis gave court authorities his statement back in 2001 and that all witnesses were later heard in the investigation that year. During that time, Mr. Curtis was at large. If he hadn't affected the witnesses in six years, and he didn't escape from the country, which is well known, there was no logical reason for Mr. Curtis to be arrested, to be arrested and, of course, to file charges, but there was a political need for that indictment to be filed, and of course it was used and abused. When it comes to this part of the article whose abolition is also proposed and the link to organised crime, here I have taken out of the Criminal Code certain crimes for which the sentence of 10 years has been threatened, because these acts can also be applied. It is the issuing of checks and the use of payment cards without cover, if the property benefit is prepared in an amount exceeding 100,000 dinars, a penalty of one to 10 years has been threatened. Then money laundering also, from one to 10 years, then counterfeiting money from two to 12 years, then falsifying paper from two to 10 years. So causing false bankruptcy, which if the special prosecutor really wanted, would have a lot of work, because all you have to do is look at the Council documents on the fight against corruption and carry out an analysis of the work of the Trade Court, and see how false bankruptcys were made, and then it could be done absolutely, but for this cause of false bankruptcy, two to ten years has been threatened. Then allowing the use of intoxicating drugs, and we come, for us socialists, to the most interesting crime, to abuse the official position. I'm not saying this by chance, because this abuse of official office is also one of the crimes for which the sentence has been threatened, and for the abuse of our official position, we were witnesses, unfortunately, after 2000, that it was, to say, a crime that was ordered from this pay phone like this. Then the judicial authorities of that indictment stood up. It didn't matter if it was in accordance with the law or not. I'm not saying this by chance, because we've done one analysis of these reports relating to the abuse of official office, and I have to, because of the minister and because of what's been going on, and that no longer happens, to mention the way this crime has been misused. There have been cases where an indictment for abuse of official office was filed, and when the defendant acted in accordance with the law, but allegedly did not get the consent of a direct senior body, although the law did not oblige him to such a procedure. There have been cases where a public prosecutor has filed criminal charges against SPS members even in those cases where the public prosecutor himself found that the participant in a particular procedure acted in accordance with the powers and powers he had, and in the whole of that case had no personal benefit, which he is saying, of course, that the indictment was based on political motives. A criminal complaint has been filed for the abuse of an official position against persons who were often not direct employers, with two or three leaders against whom no indictment has been filed, but of course against SPS members, saying the indictment was based on political motives. A criminal application for abuse of an official position has been filed in cases where the contracting entity and the supervisory authority have accepted or that the work has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the contract between those entities. In some cases, the public prosecutor filed criminal charges for the alleged abuse of his official position and when material damage was done less than the one prescribed by the law at the time, which suggests that such an indictment had a political background. The sixth case or case, in some cases, the public prosecutor has also filed criminal charges for abuse of his or her official position because of alleged disregard for the business procedure of the authorities, although the same work on the body is not disputed, etc. I'm telling you this very specifically. We witnessed that time last time, whether it was returned, and abuse of the provisions of the law, abuse, unfortunately, for political purposes. I hope that it will not be in Serbia, but the abolition of these provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is like a lustration that is being introduced to a small door. It's being introduced to a small door because it doesn't need to be forgotten, at least we Socialists don't forget how the prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia were elected. They were elected at the time of the implementation of the "Sabbe" action, by amending the Law on Public Prosecutors at an unpublished session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and giving the government the opportunity to appoint prosecutors. Of course, only politically similar people of the then government, or the Democratic Party, could be elected to prosecutors, and this later felt in their actions. We have reason to doubt...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1562	Mr. Beard, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1563	We have reason to believe that these provisions of the law, whose abolition is proposed, may be misused against humans. Finally, given that we will vote against both laws, I have cited a number of reasons why, if possible, it would be good if Mr. Minister had made it clear to us, that it would be as clear as when the suspension of the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or the first act, would be to tell us what is the essence of the abolition of these provisions and for which these provisions are repealed. I don't think Mr. Minister has any reason not to tell the public of Serbia. No need to be afraid of criminals, the public word is very strong. We need to tell the public who it is and why these provisions of the law are being abolished, I think it's fairer. Because we can't keep making changes and supplementing the law so that certain criminals or those accused won't be released and because the law isn't being implemented, but let's see which of the people in the judiciary doesn't work so that the law is respected and that what was laid down in the law goes to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1564	Thank you. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP's authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1565	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the LDP, I am authorized to say in favour of both these proposals concerning the amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm not gonna use all the time at my disposal, because I don't think there's too much detail about principle, and I'm gonna try not to repeat what the respected predecessors have already said. First of all, I could find out that we've fallen back into the teat and again we're making extortional moves that make both legal and political damage, and without which unfortunately the damage would be even greater. Why are these extorted moves necessary? By applying the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is not applicable, he set the goals that the Law seeks to achieve. These are: "the creation of a normative environment in which criminal proceedings will be faster and more efficient, and thus significantly cheaper, consistent protection of the Constitution and international laws of guaranteed human rights and freedoms, the establishment of a coherent balance between the requirements for the efficiency of criminal proceedings, the protection of basic procedural but general human rights of the participants of criminal proceedings, and the consistent respect for the principle of fair conduct of criminal proceedings. "What is realistic about this law of criminal proceedings at this time? Nothing. In view of these objectives, the adoption of a new Code of Criminal Procedure imposed the need to create one of the most favourable legal environments that would, on the one hand, enable the effective repression of crime and, on the other hand, consistently protect the rights of participants in criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, the current state of our judicial system and the principles imposed by the Code of Criminal Procedure do not allow it. What did the previous government do to ensure that these principles can be met and that the public prosecutor and all those bearers of criminal and procedural activities can do their job without interference? Of course, nothing. In a period of one year, apart from organising a series of seminars in order to train judges and prosecutors to apply new legal solutions, absolutely nothing has been done to provide the material and technical conditions necessary for the practical application of new legal solutions. The seminars are held, as if judges and public prosecutors can't read the law and apply what it says in the Law. The legal solutions provided for by the new law do not meet the current material, human and financial situation. Over the long term, there was no choice of prosecutors, which should now take over the former role of the investigative judge. The question arises as to how these most radical changes will be implemented in practice. The question can also be asked whether a 19 - month period is sufficient to provide all of this with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. And, of course, as it usually happens, one bigotry pulls behind itself and the other. In order to prevent the release of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, due to the expiry of the maximum duration of detention, changes and additions of the old code still apply due to the principle of "vacacio legis". The logical solution, correcting this illogicality, was the amendment and addition of Article 555 of the new Code on Criminal Procedure and Application of Article 178 of the New Code on Criminal Procedures, which give the requested solutions. Unlike the situation we have now, it should be noted that this code has come into force with a delayed fact, but its parts are already being applied. If so, which is why the proposer did not propose to amend and supplement Article 555 of this Code. And in the end, such a legal galamatias should be characterized by the Constitution, where we are awaited by members 153, 154, 158 and 159, who unequivocally allow a strong influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority. Is the promoter of the Constitution a legislator and whether the promoter of these changes and additions really wanted it. Finally, LDP MPs will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as not only legal cellity, but simple necessity requires the fact of non-applicable law to be postponed. But I stress that this conclusion does not answer the questions: what about inapplicable laws, what about system failure, what about the subsequent solutions in the Constitution? It is sad that the irresponsible behavior of the previous government has brought us into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1566	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Balint, head of the minority parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1567	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a few sentences, I will present the position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians on the proposed legislative proposals. I must say immediately at first that SVM MPs will support both legislative proposals on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, although, as you know very well, SVM does not support the government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily because of its programme and because of the fact that this programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not deal at the declarative level with issues of national minorities. This programme doesn't say anything about Vojvodina getting its assets back and the financial autonomy that belongs to it under the Constitution and saying nothing of this government's programme that our local self-government should receive, after 12 years, their property back. Nevertheless, our MPs will support these legislative proposals that are on the agenda today, simply out of order and out of necessity. It is beyond any doubt that the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be postponed precisely for the reasons set out above and for the reasons it also contains, that it is necessary for its implementation to create the necessary material and technical conditions without these conditions being provided, and in order to prevent the adverse consequences of the work of the national authorities, the start of the application of this Code of Criminal Procedure must be delayed. That's true, and this is exactly what they brought to us in the prosecutions, both in the Municipal and District Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, when SVM MPs visited those state authorities based in the territory of Subotica, and I must say that we have been told that the last 30 years have not happened that the MPs from our community were interested in the conditions of the work of the state authorities in our municipalities, and that they certainly welcomed this. I have to tell Mr. Minister that we are going to visit him in due course and we will definitely have to talk about improving the working conditions of prosecutors and courts, I suppose not only in Subotica, not only in northern Vojvodina, but in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. It is very clear, in the light of the legislative proposal, that the reasons why the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be postponed, but nothing has been said who bears responsibility for the fact that no necessary material and technical conditions have been created since May of last year for the implementation of the Code. I don't think the new government could have done anything about this issue in ten days. But certainly the previous government should be responsible for doing nothing in more than a year to create these conditions. I have to ask myself, although this is a rhetorical question, when are we going to stop delaying the application of certain laws, which is constantly done in this assembly, primarily in terms of law in the field of justice. We certainly consider that a very bad solution. I have repeatedly said that some laws are passed twice, that some decisions are taken twice, and that very important legislative proposals await adoption for more than two or three years, and in the procedure is close to hundreds of laws, waiting for adoption and for those laws that are very important for improving the position of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. I must say that the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution in Article 5 makes it very clear that it sets out exactly what needs to be found on the agenda of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must conclude that of these issues, nothing has yet been found on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly this does not mean that, in addition to these legislative proposals, no other legal proposals can be found on the Assembly's agenda, but these legal proposals should be found on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes it. I must also say that if these laws could be found, regardless of what the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states, on the agenda today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must find some other legal proposals that we consider very important. This time I would like to reiterate that it would be very important to immediately start with amendments to the Radio Diffusion Act, so that harmful consequences can be removed for informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, primarily national minorities, and should certainly be resolved by the position and issue of Radio Subotica, which has existed for more than 38 years, to be excluded from mandatory privatisation. I must say, if these laws and proposals of the law could be found on the agenda, then we think that by the same procedure very quickly, for example, both this law or the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting should be found on the agenda. This time and this time, I urge the President of the National Assembly to put this legislative proposal on the agenda of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1568	Thank you, Mr. Balint. The word has been made by MP Nenad Canak, head of the Vojvodjani Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1569	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, the Vojvodjani Parliament Club will support both legislative proposals. But I would like to ask all of you about the National Assembly and its work, because we are here in a position to plead upon an urgent procedure to postpone the application of the law for a year and a half. Well, if it's an emergency procedure, to postpone something for a year and a half, it could have been done a little sooner. I thank Mr. Minister for respecting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with his presence, but I ask him a question: where is your Prime Minister, Mr. Minister? He was also prime minister the last time this law, which cannot be applied, was decided, so he is not present in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps because he cannot look them in the eyes or anything like that. One thing is certain, such legal proposals should absolutely help Serbia ranks in the ranks of legally regulated states. We're not going anywhere in this relationship to these laws. That is why I think it must be far more responsible to approach laws like this, as well as to the fact that 43 legislative proposals, which the Vojvodina Assembly sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for consideration and adoption, are still in the drawers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have not been found in front of the MPs. The 43 legislative proposals have been tabled for the past seven years. For seven years, no legislative proposal has appeared, which has also been developed to consider and adopt, has been directed by the Vojvodina Assembly to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a very dangerous practice, and that is why I think that the chairman, the president of this assembly and the vice presidents, must think about it. In the end, I would take the opportunity to congratulate those who respect the Gregorian calendar on the day of youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1570	Thank you. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is by Mr Petar Jojic, and then by independent MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1571	Ladies and gentlemen, in modern practice of parallel law, there is no record of laws being passed for individual cases. That's what I want to draw attention to when we heard today the reasons why a new criminal code should be passed. Ladies and gentlemen, first, this 2006 law was to be put outside the legal force and to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in 2005. Just to remind you, though you know, that the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure was written by a group of members of the federal government, the Serbian Radical Party, who gathered the biggest experts in our country, professors, all the professional people from all the judicial authorities and institutions, associations of lawyers and law offices. Just like that, when I was a federal minister in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I estimated a good criminal code could be passed. By passing this code in a criminal procedure that was adopted, it was written in 2000, adopted in 2001, therefore it is a product and product of Serbian radicals, because we have found that we cannot compare ourselves with democratic states in the world, and it is a criminal-processing matter, very important. After the Constitution, criminal-processing law represents the legitimacy of a state and the mirror of its democracy. In my presentation, I will refer to certain solutions and comparative practice, but also to some illogicalities and contradictions and with European legislation, and also to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We were told by one statesman, in his own time, by Mr. President of France, Jacques Shirak, that Serbs are without law and Serbs are without faith. We, Serbian radicals and Serbian patriots, say that we have good laws, that we had them and that we have our Orthodox faith. To clarify what Shirak said that we are a people without faith and that we have no laws. It is more than interesting what kind of incident took place at a meeting of the heads of government and EU member states in Paris in 1995, when Greek Prime Minister Papandreou first spoke about a civil war being waged in Bosnia, with elements of religious war. But Jacques Shirak cut him rough and undiplomatically - let me interrupt you, Mr. President, the Serbs are a people without faith and without law. Well, you see, we Serbian radicals don't agree so much that we run into that EU, and as Jacques Chirac has given us estimates that we are such a people, such a legal situation and legislation in our country. The new Code of Criminal Procedure in May 2006 was prepared in haste, without any necessary preparation and verification of the ideas that were incorporated into it. This way of work has caused doubt, especially since there was no reason for haste and the undertaking has not been reduced to minor routine changes and additions to the existing code. The ambitions were much higher, so it was passed and brought a brand-new code. It was created by the pooling of a number of completely new procedural institutions and solutions taken from foreign law, the procedural provisions of the existing code, which are mostly broken, processed, most often without any need and visible justification, without respect for the basic nomotechnical rules. The whole venture was carried out by the personal and unverified impression of individuals who participated in the work to prepare the bill. The result of this work is a large number of obvious errors and shortages of all kinds, from dilemmas regarding the meaning of certain provisions, legal gaps, confusions created by mechanically adding new texts to existing and numerous other structures, to rough language and spelling gaps, which the Code of Criminal Procedure will place in the order of the most illiterate legal texts in the history of domestic law. As it will be or as it could be applied this code, it remains to be seen. A significant number of newspapers, adopted by the new Code of Criminal Procedure, have been taken over from the English law, particularly when it comes to the organisation of the previous procedure, the agreement and recognition of guilt, the process of mediation for the achievement of the alignment between the accused and the damaged and the other. This transplantation of Anglo-American procedural forms into domestic justice has been carried out selectively and partially, by an untested impression, without sufficient knowledge of their historical conditionality and insight into the way they operate today; without an analysis of the results of the process formed on the side and without testing their combinations and unchanged attitudes in parts of domestic procedural law. A favourable impression based solely on reading the rules governing foreign court practice is mostly wrong, so their takeover into domestic law, based on that impression, does not guarantee any useful result. There are a number of additional circumstances and facts to be taken into account in such ventures. It is particularly important to get to know the cultural environment in which foreign regulations are applied, compare it with domestic ones, and therefore make appropriate conclusions. The differences in the organisation of judicial institutions, the financial resources available, the staff potential, not only in terms of numbers but also in terms of working habits, cultures and other considerations, are large differences in this regard and therefore, in any case, we do not need to slave and we do not need to allow us to accept Anglo-American procedural law at all costs. You know that this is Serbia, and it is not America, that there are laws and that there is violence, and in this democratic state, which Serbian radicals want to become -- we are not going to let someone on the side write laws and propose that we should be arrested and how we should be judged, and what and how democracy should be brought into our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1572	Mr. Jojic, will you use the other ten minutes? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1573	Ladies and gentlemen, the failures of the new Code of Criminal Procedure are enormous. The question arises, one of the most significant in the matter of BIA, what will the BIA do in the Code of Criminal Procedure? What are these extensions of the executives now in terms of listening? How do executives' rights are expanded to control and listen to phone conversations, to break into apartments without a court order? In which cases a search and entry into the apartment can be conducted, it was regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to this proposal and according to the Law adopted, there are numerous shortcomings that narrow down fundamental democratic and human rights in our country. It is very important that the alignment of the new Code of Criminal Procedure with the Constitution is very important, but how to align it. I would just like to refer to the provision of Articles 5 and 6. The Code of Criminal Procedure, where the defendant may attend the defendant's hearing, but the rights of defence in the proceedings against a person are narrowed down. Secondly, I said when it comes to listening that it is one of the most serious injuries, and I must tell you that never in the history of applying these measures are citizens of Serbia being tapped into a larger number than they are doing today. That's a huge problem. How is protection of human rights and freedom assessed? When I spoke about the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, I will remind you only of some provisions where, with the participation of very large experts from all over the country, we have prepared a new criminal code in the federal government. We've codified the procedural law. Until then, he had a name - the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was brought in 1976. Since we made a new 2001 criminal code, we have codified and we thought we should regulate democracy in the state. I repeat, the legitimacy and proof of democracy in one country is just a code of criminal procedure, the most important law after the constitution. General State in the protection of human rights in the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. The most important feature of the current 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure is the extension of the protection of human rights against the previous Code of Criminal Procedure, noting and repeating, from 1976. I'm just going to give you some of the most important examples that unequivocally confirm that. The assumption of innocence has been improved by introducing its positive definition, by which everyone is considered innocent instead of the negative definition so far that he is not found guilty of learning its effects more effectively. The obligation of the state authorities to abide by the assumptions of innocence is prescribed and the application of the principle of heaven is extended and I am going, not twice, cannot be tried twice, nor can anyone be held accountable twice for the same crime. The rights of deprived freedoms have been extended in several ways. First of all, there is an extended list of rights that the face of the deprived must be informed of. Then, as his special right, the right to be conducted immediately to an investigative judge, as well as the right to initiate proceedings before a court for the purpose of examining the legality of freedom, as provided for in Article 5. The Code of Criminal Procedure. The most important newspaper, however, was then introduced by reducing police authority, which was carried out in several ways. First of all, the law of the police has been abolished to determine the arrest for three days. We disagreed, so some thought, he said, so the police couldn't determine a three-day detention period when in France and Germany they could decide to hold up to 70 hours. That's right. It's the police, but it's the judicial police, not the classical police. The 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure has increased the control of police work in several ways in the absence of freedom. The right to freedom to search the apartment is limited. And you see, we're now experiencing a return to 45, 46 and 50, now whoever wants to legitimize to you is from the inside. Take out the ID and say, please, open the door, conduct a search, kidnapping. Wait, guys, why are you doing this? A bogeyman like that, after seven days, he grabs his head where he puts a few things. That's inappropriate. Therefore, this law, which was passed in 2006, extended rights to the damage to freedom and rights of citizens, in favour of judicial, or executive bodies. The rights of citizens from whom police collect information have been expanded and increased. Why did we go to that? We knew that many abuses were committed in the past. They asked me some, even teachers, so how come the police don't have the right to call. Yeah, well, then I stood up, because I had some experience earlier from these administrative authorities, wait for people, please, the police can call the citizens, but they have to call him by invitation, and the call has to indicate the reason for the call, and it has to determine the property in which he calls. Secondly, in that code, we have limited the right to hold talks. That means two hours tops, and in two hours, he'll be carried out if he's a suspect. They're going to have him conducted by an investigative judge, so the investigative judge can decide whether or not he's going to be held in custody. In the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, we've declared that no one can call twice a citizen, not even a suspect, not a defendant twice, and now you're returning it. That's going back to the way it was. Therefore, we cannot accept this, and the Serbian Radical Party believes this is a disaster compared to criminal-processing law. When we compare it to comparable law, because when I proposed that law in the federal government, I pray you, I have hired the Institute of Comparative Law, and I have a study of the Institute of Comparative Law from many countries in the world, both Europe and the US judicial authorities and the law on how good laws should be passed. Now you see, what's problematic here, so the problem is that it's not recorded in the parallel right to ask for an amendment, or an addition to a law that hasn't yet entered into force. Why this, it's not registered in parallel law, ladies and gentlemen. That's why we think this isn't good. We believe it is necessary to maintain and seek amendments to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. This law is put out of effect, and in addition to this, it is seen that the previous government, which was incompetent and unprofessional, because the laws are written here by individual diletaries or trainees, and not by law professors, nor by judicial authorities in most parts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have a provision in article 146 of the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, which norms when it comes to the right of detention, that the decision of the council which rejects the motion to determine detention or the suspension of detention is not permitted. Ladies and gentlemen, how can a legislator of such a law go around Article 36 first and foremost? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What is more important here, either the Constitution or the law, which has been proposed and brought to speed, and no fundamental changes have been made. For such laws it takes from five to ten years, in parallel law so it is done to pass a good law when it comes to criminal and procedural law. Here he will be able to do whatever he wants, the relationship between the prosecutor and the judge, especially the investigative judge, as the people say, insanely confused. There's no one here who can handle it. And I can tell you another one, in Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees equal protection of rights against courts and other state bodies of public authorities, authorities of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. What the second point of view says: each person has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if he has the right to address the higher authority, second-degree, to appeal the resolution of this council which, contrary to the constitution, did not allow him to debate before the court and defend himself before the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1574	Please finish, 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1575	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that a scientific meeting on the topic of the latest and best books of Professor Vojislav Seselj is being held today, and I would like to invite them to come, especially my Pančevecs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1576	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1577	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the DS Group will support changes in both criminal code. We respect the seriousness of the reasons why it is necessary to postpone the application of the 2006 Law. We take care of the possible consequences if the application of that code is not delayed. At the same time, the deadline for the stay coincides with the deadline for the application of the Constitutional Law on the application of the Constitution, and we believe that it is a real deadline and that, as far as the Constitution is concerned, it is also taken into account to apply the laws with the solutions of the Constitution. At the same time, we believe that it is good to apply the solutions of the laws to which application is delayed and that is why we will vote for both laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1578	Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? No, I don't. The word is Mr. Srdjan Shane, an independent MP. You have five minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1579	I just wanted to say that on behalf of the Roma Party, I will support these legal proposals, because I believe this assembly has a serious obligation to define and synchronise criminal law in the state. In this sense, we experience this as creating space for this time to pass some other laws, which directly have the definition and criminal-legal matter that we are now talking about, and I am specifically referring to the adoption of anti-discrimination law, because by passing such a law and creating one of its adapted criminal proceedings, we believe that we can effectively fight the perpetrators of crimes motivated by diversity, whether these differences are national, religious, in full or in any other way. Thank you. I just answered the word, and I didn't go before the others, and the Rules of Procedure say we have to answer it, so you don't have to interpret the Rules of Procedure next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1580	I never doubted for a moment that you knew the Rules of Procedure well. I've only given information to other MPs. You kept your word, one minute and 10 seconds, thank you. Since we are finished with representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups - SRS, DS, SPS and LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1581	I think there might be a little bit of a loss of meaning, given that the proposing's representative is gone or at least I don't see him, and I was just about to say a few things to him. So, I wanted to say first a few words about the government's proposal to postpone the entry into force of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. We've heard a lot of things about technical and legal reasons, but we haven't heard a single thing about political reasons for this decision. So, what choice do MPs have? You came and said - a law that was passed a year and a half ago cannot be implemented, it should start in a few days, so since it cannot be implemented, here you MPs decide whether to postpone by one and a half days or what, which is our other choice; that we now reject such a proposal and then live in a country where the Code of Criminal Procedure does not exist. I am aware and probably all MPs that this law has been radical and ambitious, and that it has meant many preparations or many changes in the Serbian judiciary, but we have not heard why these changes have not been implemented, who is responsible for this? Is the ex-proposer responsible? I respect that the current minister of justice is a minister for only seven days and that he cannot give an explanation for it, but he is obliged to tell us why the law, or its implementation and deadlines in that law, are not respected, what happened. If he can't say that because of the new coalition agreement, then he can let us know as long as the law has been implemented and why we would now believe that the deadline, December 31st, 2008, is possible. It's been a year, what has been done so far, which is why we'll be able to conclude that it's just December 31st next year when all these preparations will be completed and when this law will come into force. So, I want to tell you, the LDP will vote for this proposal, but I want to tell you that there is no choice. We take responsibility for that. It's just amazing, it's just a matter of political responsibility. So now only this political responsibility is being transferred from the government to the Assembly, but we have no other choice. As for the second point, the suspension of detention, we understand that there are two kinds of obstacles that process operations in the second degree cannot be completed in a year. One kind of obstacle is the suffocation of courts, right, means some objective reasons, but there are other kinds of obstacles that our DS colleagues are very aware of, and that is the impeccableness of the Supreme Court's work. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, in addition to abolishing these lengths of detention, also restricts and obliges the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia. So, Serbia's Supreme Court, under the new law we are delaying, cannot repel the first-degree verdict more than twice. We understand and we will support that this detention takes place so that criminals do not leave prison, but why is it not part of this proposal and that binding decision for Serbia's Supreme Court. Why don't we extend custody on the one hand, and on the other hand we cancel one of the reasons why we're extending that detention? I must say, for us, this proposal of choice is between two evils and unfortunately we choose less evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1582	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, so let the MP Vlatko Ratkovic be prepared. At 1400 hours we'll take a break and continue our work at 15.00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable absent Mr. Minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic has delivered the view of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposed laws amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. In his explanation, he very detailedly presented all the reasons why the SPS would not vote for these proposals. When it comes to the first law, or the Law on Amendments to the New Criminal Code, which postpones its application for another 19 months or a year or a half, I have nothing to add to what was said, except that Mr. Zarko then asked, and I am asking the question - who is responsible for not being created conditions for the application of that law. The previous government, as the legislator of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has set a deadline of one year. This new government offers a year and a half, apparently wanting to leave the issue to some new government, because it will not last that year and a half, which is nothing unrealistic, given that this government has started without credibility, without mutual trust, and when looking at the list of ministers, without competence for all the areas proposed. I will remain brief on the second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, simplistically, abolishs the restriction, does not end detention, we heard earlier, the restrictions on the duration of detention are lifted. I would like to say in a few sentences here: I think the bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure is a kind of indictment of this government against this authority they call democratic. Why? The proposed amendments to the law, which are full of the Government when it says it is pro-European, pro-reformal, pro-reformal, so that I don't move forward, and it offers amendments and additions to the Codes of Criminal Procedure which, first of all, are not in the spirit of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of People. So, it violates human rights, that pro-European, reformist. Secondly, it offers a proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is not in the spirit of the Constitution, so it violates the Constitution. The constitution in the custody section clearly states that it must be reduced to the least possible measure. This government has translated it into the least possible measure unlimited. So unlimited duration is the least possible measure according to the government's criteria. However, it is not a problem, because there is no Constitutional Court, so there is no one to assess constitutionality, and we are used to the government putting something else into priority, not let alone the choice of the Constitutional Court, which should have ended by the end of May. The third reason, the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure open the way for self-will, abuse by the executive authority, and I will remind you that people have fought for centuries, hundreds of years, to shorten the will of those who have in their hands the ability to judge, to suspect, to accuse, etc. It paves the way for a dictatorial authority, paves the way for new sabers and not to add any further. What does this change really mean, what does it say? The possibility of a length of detention is 40 years, maximum threatened sentence. I'd like to repeat the question to Mr. Minister when he comes here, which is why this code is passed, which are you, let it be made public and plain, why is it brought here? Because we're not against criminals being arrested, being prosecuted, being tried. The SPS as a democratically-oriented party on the left has priority and we will support whatever authority it is, which is conflicting with crime, but really and unselective, because it's not even real here, and it is selective. What does this change mean? This change means that this so-called. The government's democratic detention rate is becoming a punishment and it is no longer something that provides for the conduct of a criminal procedure, becoming a punishment. Next, why don't you say who's supposed to get out of jail and why, who hasn't done the job in four years, which court, which prosecution? How many years does it take to do a job? Only then could it be more serious to talk about it, and like this, instead of changing the prosecution, the court, who already participates in this procedure, we change the law, and every time they don't do their job, we'll change the law again. Of course, you're after criminals, you're arresting, you're judging, you've got our support, but you're really indistinguishable. What you're doing isn't even real, and it's selective. This is a confirmation of the great political impact on the court and the prosecution, and I'm only going to say a few examples of non-selectiveness, you can't have support there. First of all, we had an example here, Mr. Zarko Obradovic said. The Socialists have been prosecuted for six years because of the famous and famous abuse of official office. For one example, there is a criminal case against the chairman of the board of directors because he signed the decision of the board of directors taken by the unanimous board of directors. Why? To approve the assistance of the injured soldiers in the fight in Kosovo, etc., and since it is, of course, under the new authorities' criteria, a crime, since all those who fought and those who helped, it is a crime, it is now in court. The decision was signed by a unanimous board of directors and no criminal proceedings against Bozidar Djelic, whom coalition partners say damaged the government's budget without a decision. Is that non-selective justice? Another example, here we were today listening to the lightning punishment of young men who were glued to posters on Bulevar AVNOJ Street. Just so you have information, since I know this area well, the Boulevard AVNOJ has 15,000 residents, when it comes to numbers, half of which is a petition to prevent a change. When he's at City Hall, we'll talk about it. A political stance has been expressed, lightningly, during the night, they were arrested. And I'll remind you, two or three months ago, the same example was in Pogorevec, when they were glued to posters -- the street of the victims of Slobodan Milosevic. Then it was the main positive news on the so-called. democratic media. Is this justice, not to talk about the prosecution in the official position, and let's say never those who set fire to the Assembly, who broke into state institutions, thousands of crisis headquarters, when Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped against the law, etc. What is now being offered is on the verge of everything, simply creating even more opportunities for political influence and political trial. For these reasons, we will not support these changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1584	We're finishing the morning part of the work. We continue at 15.00 hours, first speaker Vlatko Ratkovic, Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Vlatko Ratkovic called for the word, and let MP Slavko Jerkovic prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1586	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the purpose of each procedural regulation is to be in the function of a material regulation, whether it is a law, a Rules of Procedure, a regulation, that is, in this regulation that we are discussing today, means the Code of Criminal Procedure, as one of the key procedural laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Why is this a key procedural law? Because it's tied to a key material code, and it's a criminal code. In order to apply the provisions of the material regulation, we must have one functional and effective procedural law. We also heard from the promoters, we heard during the discussion that not all the necessary material, technical, personal and other preconditions were provided to implement, or started to apply the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, the DS Group also supports such an explanation, believing that the Code of Criminal Procedure should be an effective instrument, to say, a tool in the hands and the courts and parties in the proceedings, means both prosecutors, and defences, and damaged, means all participants in the criminal proceedings, and if that law is not functionally pointless is its application. We can talk for a long time about why the conditions for its application are not secured, but in addition to some that have already been made, I will also be apostrophysing that these laws involve public prosecutors, not only state prosecutors, but also public prosecutors' assistants in the preliminary or pre-critical phase of the procedure. We must bear in mind that our prosecutions do not have enough employees at this time, who would take on the burden of running and doing this part of their work, as well as that part of the work concerning their participation in the main search, in the legal treatment process, both on a regular and extraordinary basis. I would agree with my colleagues, both from the opposition group and with colleagues who have said so far, that the Code of Criminal Procedure is a certain buildup of Anglo-Saxon and continental law, but regardless, the Code of Criminal Procedure is the law of the Republic of Serbia and it is our authentic legal regulation. I cannot agree with individual fellow Members who pointed out that it was prescribed by the Anglo-Saxon or the common law system. It's simply an authentic regulation. True, this code introduces a lot of new legal institutes and sub-institutions, such as, we said, assuming jurisdiction from an investigative judge, those powers he had, and by public prosecutors. New evidence actions are introduced, covert sound and optical surveillance of the suspect, the provision of simulated services, the conclusion of simulated legal transactions, the involvement of a covert investigator, controlled delivery, etc. At this point, the state authorities, which are supposed to implement this criminal code, do not have all the material resources, do not have all the resources. This is where the code and recording of the suspect's statement in the police are provided. I know from my practice that some departments of internal affairs, some police administrations still have mechanical typewriters, they don't even have a computer, let alone audio systems and visual records. Who's responsible for that? Maybe we're all responsible for this as a society, maybe it's both the position and the opposition in the previous period, but the fact is that one law would be functional, it would have to meet these preconditions. A further new education of our distinguished fellow public prosecutors and judges is needed, as well as a lawyer. For this reason, the DS, as a Racio legis, will vote in favour of amendments to this law, that is, its application from 31 December 2008. We also expect, as MPs, that its implementation and full application will be provided by a new law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in whose adoption we will all participate, either as a position or as an opposition, and that additional funds will be provided in the budget for this criminal procedure code. I would like to express my satisfaction with the presence of Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic, not because he is from the DS, but because he is also the President of the Assembly, and he listened to us all when he came to today's meeting, and I believe he would come and we didn't invite him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1587	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Slavko Jerkovic, I would like to inform you that we will, on the basis of article 85. Rules of Procedure, work until the end of the agenda, which will be on the agenda at 1800 hours. The apostle Slavko Jerkovic has a word, and let the MP of the people be prepared Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard the author of the law, Mr. Minister, but he has not given a valid reason why he has requested a delay in the application of the law since 31 December 2008, no valid reason exists. The material conditions that were not created in the past government, so he was in one direct or indirect way always in that government, always in that ruling, in a way, coalition. What's the background of all this, he didn't answer us. Some MPs have also asked that question, and to say the real reason why it requires the postponement of this law, as well as to say the real reason why it wants to abolish the provisions of Articles 146, paragraphs 3 and 4. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Why does he want to stay on the presidents of the criminal council exclusively when he lets someone out of custody? Why allow to this extent the freedom of the presidents of the criminal councils in our courts, both first-degree and second-degree? This is a fundamental question that the authorised proposer has not answered. It is noted in the reasons that it comes down to system solutions, but I don't know which. We have had opportunities to monitor over the past years and the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. We've seen the application of the Code of Procedure and Evidence. Whether the abolition of this provision, whether or not to put on the will of representatives of the criminal councils to decide for themselves on the length of the detention period, is this a copy of the Rules of Procedure and of the evidence applied by the International Criminal Tribunal. Here is the fifth year Vojislav Seselj is in custody. This country has not done anything on its own in terms of establishing a reasonable time limit that would be for one person to be detained. There, however, only the European Court of Human Rights has pleaded and found in one case that the Convention of Human Rights has been violated, and Article 5(3) has violated a reasonable period of detention of two years. Even that court has come to the conclusion that everything that is over two years does not constitute a reasonable deadline. What makes it clear to me as one practitioner, and this law where the prosecution will have the authority to carry out an investigation, will be in the hands of the state's authority to conduct an investigation, will on trial be the will to determine and detain the person in custody unlimitedly? Thus, the institution of innocence is belittled, reduced, humiliated. This institution of innocence, which is known in all modern systems of the world, should not be discredited in this way. It should stay and perfect itself, improve, but not in this way in a harsh violation, that the defendant, the detainee, does not know in advance his rights in criminal proceedings, does not know in advance when and under what circumstances he may be released from custody. I allow myself to freely believe which initiatives are proposed. Perhaps the proponents' initiatives, in that this country too began working with popular witnesses, as the witnesses are called, professionally, and in the people "protected witnesses", may be one of the reasons why they would, until they broke it in court, in custody, make false promises to blame him, to get away with him and lie to blame certain people for persecuting political unsuspecting. I mean, in accepting this bill, that even this government may once in the near future come to the wallpaper, and it should take care that the government is not god of the day, that it is changing and that it is a matter of time before they come under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1589	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1590	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Justice Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Democratic Party will support these bill proposals simply because the DS advocates the rule of law, the existence and respect of institutions, and because we do not want to put Serbia and citizens of Serbia in a position that those who need to respond to the law are in a position not to have institutions to decide on their temporary restriction of freedom. I must also tell the citizens, and also to you MPs, that at the centre of attention of this law is not a participant in the process, but a citizen with all his rights, who are very often threatened by those who act against the law, who affect their life, body and property, and that it is certain that the state must always conduct proceedings against those who act against the law, commit crimes, and this is most often more serious crimes with elements of violence, with elements of coercion, and very often in such most serious criminal acts, there is a loss of honest people and citizens. What I want to point out on this occasion is that on June 1st, it would happen that the state would not have organs capable and willing to conduct criminal proceedings against the perpetrators of crimes, to the detriment of all citizens of Serbia. On June 1st, the prosecution would be able to take over the investigation, so emergency actions taken immediately after the execution of the crimes, and the serious crimes for which normal detention is intended, i.e. when a constitutional condition for temporary restriction of movement and freedom takes place. I must also conclude that as a citizen, as an MP, I support all forms of general prevention to fight crime. It is certain that every citizen, every decent citizen of Serbia, believes that the state must use all its instruments in accordance with constitutional law because it is fighting crime. During this debate, we heard different views about whether this law should be passed. There are different reasons for and against. The basic legal reason for the adoption of these laws is that the prosecution is not prepared to take responsibility for the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act and the conduct of the investigation. That's why there are more objective, but also reasons that can be attributed to insufficient ability to exercise public authority. It is true that there are not enough prosecutors and that, according to an estimate, another 400 public prosecutor's office is needed to implement this law in Serbia. In order to implement judicial reform, especially in criminal and legal terms, it is also necessary to separate the prosecution from the buildings where they are usually located, which are courts, because according to standards governing countries of developed democracy, participants in the process should be special and independent. This means that the court would have to be independent of the influence of lawyers or some defenders under official duty, but also out of the influence of public prosecutors, who very often in some countries have a clear influence of the executive authority on their work. What is happening in Serbia shows that it is necessary to reform the Serbian judiciary. It is certain that criticism is established that there is an influence outside institutions in the work of many judges, that there is the influence of certain centres of power, whether it is political influence or that it is the influence of certain financial oligarchies. The DS advocates judicial reform in Serbia. The constitution adopted also represents a new environment and represents a top legal basis for moving towards a genuine reform of Serbia's judiciary. The constitution also provides for a general re-election of judicial officials, but it is certain that there should be sufficient consensus for this first step. First of all, all those who influence political and other social flows in this country. This job isn't just for the government, this job lies with the MPs. Especially when it comes to the fact that the Constitution has defined that the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration of this Parliament, acting in his capacity, is involved in proposing candidates for the selection of holders of office in the prosecution and courts. What the DS is going to do, it's certainly a continuation of reform in these areas. We have heard here criticism and some who voted in earlier terms to postpone the validity of the law on the regulation of courts. We have defined by law that we will establish appeals courts. Twice only in this House, since the adoption of the law, have voted to move deadlines for the application of these laws to the judiciary. I mean, we're even in one... Is someone asking me from the scene? I'd just like to make it possible to work on the Rules of Procedure, and I have no intention of plowing with either the MPs or the chairman. Therefore, as regards appeals courts, their formation and establishment of this judicial hierarchy was delayed once after the expiry of the deadline within which the law was to enter into force. We have come in a position to ask the question of already established detentions, already certain detentions and the inability to declare regular legal medicines because of the absence of institutions established by this law. Of course, since the legal order and rule of law are the supreme principle on which every orderly democratic society rests, there has been no chaos that some have desired. I have to tell you that the delay in the law in these cases was precisely in key, risky and political situations when some non-institutional changes were being advocated in the state, when political ambience was being created and political opponents were being targeted for revenge. It happened that political support was given to terrorists who were trying to reach an unconstitutional and anti-constitutional change of government through the murders of public figures and political workers. And day and day there are such discussions, and day and day the values that every normal citizen of this country must condemn. We here have an attempt to replace thesis, more than that, we here have an attempt to replace the value. The supreme democratic values that each state has to protect are known. These are the lives and health of Serbian citizens, and then their property. That's why it's inappropriate in this house, in this House, to replace executioners and victims. The executioners must deserve their lawfully prescribed punishment. We don't ask for any less, but no more than that. That's why the fines imposed in the process of killing Prime Minister Djindjic are legal, and we are not asking for anything more than the law of the prescribed maximum. It is clear that politics and the political atmosphere of support are being created here for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, and we strongly condemn it. We'll fight it, we'll fight every kind of terrorism. We will not resist under pressure, we will not agree and we will not allow the atmosphere of support for criminals, we will not allow political parties to function in crime, organised and terrorism, we will not. But we also expect all MPs, and those on this side, and those on the other side, to respect and improve all those values that are democratic and that are established in all democratic societies. What will happen in the future is certainly in a constitutional and legal way to change the conditions of work of function holders in public prosecutors and courts. But we also won't forget all those people who, by their work, contribute to the efficiency and functionality of the courts. This means that people who are employed in the judiciary have the right to adequate compensation, have the right to a material position worthy of man and who will be equated with the work of all other workers in state bodies. So, for the efficiency of the courts, it is certain that we should also have qualified, educated staff and should constantly insist on continuous education of staff already performing certain public functions. That's why it is inappropriate for me to object and criticise that no one will educate the MPs, that no one will educate further prosecutors and judges who are already in office. It was a time when some felt that with a degree, they should stop learning and perfect themselves. This society expects an initiative, this society expects quality people in the most responsible places in the country. What I'm still trying to say is that we're going to stand for the principle that without the influence of politics, the best-quality personnel find themselves in the most responsible functions, especially in the judiciary. There will be no problem that detention will be controlled in a different way, there will be no interference with the abolition of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, as there is even international control over the efficiency of the work of courts. And it is not a violation of the right of citizens in itself that there is no limited length of detention after the indictment is brought on the legal force. In particular, if there is a balance and the influence of the executive or legislative authority on the work of independent courts is removed. Therefore, concrete situations assess the effectiveness of the legal system towards each individual being prosecuted before Serbia's judiciary. Any case is also assessed by the International Court for the Protection of Human Rights, any case may also be assessed in accordance with the conduct of the processing entity. Anyone who wishes to delay procedural abuse, especially in order to avoid criminal sanctions, will not be privileged by either the domestic judicial system or by the international legal system, which we have accepted by ratification and participation in the Council of Europe. What I'm still up for is that I want to point out that the two-degree in the custody decision is secure. An emergency court council is the second-degree decision. There is regular control of the underlying conditions for the determination and extension of detention. But on this occasion, I want to underline one more thing. I want to react, and as a lawyer, I am very often able to defend people who are being processed, very often the state is being brought down on individuals who are unprotected, very often an individual is being found between hammers and anvils, these are the law and the ossion of power, very often the influences of party oligarchies are being broken over the interests and rights of individual citizens in Serbia. I therefore urge the minister of justice to implement the promised reforms in the election campaign. He will have the air support of MPs in this parliament. I expect that this support, if the demands are just and just, will come from all MPs in this House. I must say that very often on the committees we had a consensus on individual proposed candidates, that very often we had a consensus on the proposed measures to improve our legal system and the state-level system and I expect that the minister of justice will, in future, mean, with quality proposals, provide support not only for the parliamentary majority but for all well-intentioned MPs and citizens of Serbia, but also for the media, which should provide the atmosphere for the establishment of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1591	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to this sensitive reaction by Mr. Ristic. Since you've now moved on, since you are now the government of several days ago, Mr. Ristic, you are in complete collegiation with the thinking of your DS in Kragujevac. I am responding to your statement on the delay in the application of the Law on Courts of Appeals, because Kragujevac received an appeal court and, unlike you who represent such an opinion here, because now your minister of justice is hiding the problem because the previous government of Kostunica, now your prime minister and minister, who you criticised until five days ago, was absolutely incompetent back three years, along with your coalition partner Veroljub Stevanovic, the outgoing mayor of Kragujevac, was preparing the establishment of an appeal court in Kragujevac. And to make evil worse, and you are probably not informed, you are not in contact with your DS from Kragujevac, obviously something is not working for you, or if they are some other faction, it is that for the building of the Court of Appeal – here I am also telling the new minister of justice because he probably doesn't know, the question is whether you used to come as an DS official in Kragujevac, and now you will have to do the official duty – the intended health care facility that exists there as a health institution so-called. The "stealing office" for over 80 years. Worst of all, none of the preparations were done during Stojkovic and Kostunica's rule, and now you convince us that by the magic wand Petrovic will solve it, that you will effectively rule, that you will have excellent employee conditions. And you are a witness to that, and it began during Batic's ministry, that a huge proportion was made in relation to the salaries of employees and judges, although we always advocate that judges be paid properly. But then what about the other employee? Now he needs to tell us here the minister, since you gave me a great creamworth, he took over the post, Stojkovic left him the cabinet the same and everything he didn't do, to tell us nicely, Mr. Minister, when you will be able to establish and begin the work of the appeals court in Kragujevac, so that it won't be 'drying ass to green grass', so your mandate goes away. You are driving the citizens of Kragujevac, first of all, by the fact that we voted against the establishment of special courts, because we believe that we do not need this appeal at all, in addition to our regular and Supreme courts now, but when you have already entered this project since you came to power in 2001, you have a very good job now, come out as a new minister and say, since you voted for yourself, you are probably so capable, because you have given yourself the confidence to promise the citizens - when you will solve this one problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1593	Please just one thing, it's no problem to report to the Rules of Procedure, each time you'll get your three minutes, but please take the Rules of Procedure with you, or if you know by heart the member you're calling, but make sure at the beginning you tell which member you're calling. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1594	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the President of Parliament, I have brought the Rules of Procedure, since he obviously needs the Rules of Procedure, because since he sat down in this place, he has been in violation of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure so neatly and continuously. I checked in with article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because counterpart Ristic misread my debate, not today, but two days ago. Mr. Ristic, you don't participate in the work, you're mostly here to make quorum and spend time at the restaurant. You're a little bit more here today because you have Dusan Petrovic here and of course you have no idea what's going on in this room. You can laugh, you don't even know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, because as anyone comes out, it breaks him. That's why we Serbian radicals are here to educate you, dear colleagues, so you don't embarrass yourselves in front of Serbian citizens when you go to this place, in front of the minister. Minister, ever since he became Minister, he hasn't broken his rules of procedure yet. While he was an MP there was this ji-hi, but here, today he's acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to admit. Mr. Ristic, I am a folk MP who said, at a time when we discussed a candidate for Parliament, that I would not accept and that we, Serbian radicals, do not accept that anyone is conducting education, as is said, the continued education of MPs. That's why I said you misread me because I was the only one who said it, of course, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. But I understand when you said that there should be a continuous education of some judges, of course not all. I claim that there are many more honorable and professional judges in Serbia, but I fully understand that education must be done, let's say, that judge, Mr. Ristic, whom you suggested was the secretary of the agricultural cooperative, so he was elected judge and president at the same session. A man like that really needs education. And let's just say, that lady you proposed to be a judge in Nis, who had retired a long time ago, what would her education be when she learned, and she was the president of the court, of course, that such a judge should not be educated. Mr. Ristic, there's something else you mentioned, in some of your general story, that you don't allow yourself to be replaced by the roles of executioners and victims. I don't know if you know that the executioner is an occupation, Mr. Ristic, so I'm interested in what you meant, who's the executioner, who paid that executioner to commit some crime on some victim, because you've been speaking in general here, and I'm just reminding you, the executioner is an occupation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1595	Thank you. The word is Mr. Bosko Ristic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1596	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers, I would ask and ask the President of Parliament to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure and not allow further abuse. I do not propose a vote, I expect the president to recognise the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and to deny speech when it is not allowed by the rules of procedure. I'm referring to article 101. Rules of Procedure. I suggest Mrs. Radeta was not entitled to a replica because she called for a speech before this session was scheduled two days ago. What I answered, first of all, was a replica of Natasha Jovanovic's statement, after calling me, and she didn't have the basis to talk about it, because it was total ignorance. Ms. Jovanovic is asking the minister to promise to bring her an appeal court to Kragujevac. She believes that by building an appeal court building, or someone has a request to appoint the building as the seat of the appeals court, that the institutions of the system are established. I have to remind everyone who's discussing this is about the law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is not a law on construction, nor is it a law on the property of the Republic of Serbia. When we solve objects in Serbia, then contact with such a comment. I have to say, by Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has the right, its constitution established the right to vote for members of the government. MPs who are now ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia were able to vote in favour of the government's election proposal. What they don't understand here is some people who consider themselves to be excellent and experienced lawyers, although I think it's a false display of facts rather than ignorance, using the fact that in the office officials determine time based on time on a computer, that there is no official clock and that there is therefore a difference between this hour in parliament and the one in the application office. Today, the Administrative Board has reached a conclusion, on my proposal, to establish an official clock for measuring and calculating time in the Assembly, according to which watches will be determined and coordinated in all the rooms in this parliament, so as not to be able to bring individual non-aware MPs to abuse the truth and thus sell the fog to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1597	Thank you. Mr. Jerkovic has the word on the occasion of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1598	Article 103: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Dear Mr. Ristic went astray in his presentation, did not stick to the agenda. Do you think by example of Mr. Petrovic, who publicly praised the greater Special Court Department for the conviction he made the other day? None of us, in my opinion, and especially not a minister, not one of the ruling structures, must interfere in a court decision, Mr Petrovic, and especially you as a minister of justice. You are now directly influencing a major court of law. The Council of Second Instance, whose bread it is, they will, out of fear of you, not God, confirm that decision and not by law decide, by their conscience, but directly under your influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1599	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1600	I love it when the MPs speak out of the question and should speak. I don't blame you, Mr. Ristic, for speaking out of the question, but I resent what you're saying is false. So, you just said here that there are so many disagreeable watches in the National Assembly that the time that's been entered in office 23:30, in fact, the time that was 23.50 here, that 20 minutes late in the office compared to the hour here. It's a lie, Mr. Ristic, that you don't believe in. If that's how you judge the clocks, then you should withdraw criminal charges against the Assembly's service filed at the time when Parliament's resignation of G17 plus is respected. At that time, you pointed out the same way in time of submission, and they were able to tell you nicely that they were not in agreement with the watches. However, I think you have offended even me personally, but I am not as important as you have pointed to a phenomenon that concerns me, and it concerns many citizens of Serbia. You have accused us here that anyone who comments on a decision, you mean the verdict in the case of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, gives encouragement to terrorists, those who seek to change their power with weapons and assassinations. It's such a rude accusation from this pay phone that you wouldn't deserve my attention if you didn't get a round of applause for it. So, Mr. Ristic, if I dare to comment on a verdict of that process once in a while, don't accuse me of wanting to encourage terrorism in Serbia, because this accusation is very serious and I could ask you for an explanation. First of all, it's a felony, a false accusation. I would like you to file criminal charges against who you believe to be at this time, now, commenting on all that is happening in connection with the verdict of the group that allegedly organised and committed the murder of Zoran Djindjic, that it is doing so to support terrorist acts in Serbia. It's all in the stenographic notes. So, Mr. Ristic, no one in Serbia supports terrorism, no one in Serbia supports criminals, especially the SRS. If you think of supporting criminals, you should not have chosen Djelic as minister, you should not have chosen Dinkic as minister, and others, with the exception of Mr Petrovic, who has long not been involved in crime, I must admit. These two directly from crime are breaking into ministerial chairs. So don't turn into nice words very heavy accusations. If you intend to accuse something of Tomislav Nikolic or any radicals, say it openly in your eyes, I will not be angry. I'm a lot more upset by that gentle tone that you're making the most of the possible accusations. So, when I'm convinced you're a criminal, Mr. Ristic, I'll tell you in your eyes, in your pay phone, in your interview or wherever you want. (President: Time. Don't do it, it's perfiduous, it's Tito still doing it. That's what Milosevic was doing. He shows up on TV and accuses the whole people with two or three sentences and no one is allowed to object. If you think I'm ashamed and daren't oppose you when you say that my commenting is what you're doing at that trial, that it's the support of those you've condemned, you can't stop me from commenting on it at all. You'd better think about why this law, passed in 2001, couldn't predict such serious crimes. He couldn't predict who would come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1601	Thank you. The replica was reported by the vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure, Paragraph 1. I realized he tried to insult me, Bosko Ristic. But, you know, to offend me, Bosko Ristic, I don't know what's supposed to happen. I recognized myself in that attitude, but first of all in the wrong interpretation. Mr. Ristic, it's not about the building or the building, or anything that happened to you in your head, because you don't remember what you were talking about, and why I reacted from the vice president's post and why I reported to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, under Article 1, which regulates the rights and obligations of the MP, I did not mention a member earlier. Let me explain to you what this is about. The building, therefore, exists. You didn't understand what I was going to say. But the incompetent government of Kostunica, the former minister, the minister before him, and that is why there was a delay in the application of the law that you mentioned, by the way. What did you mention about the Court of Appeal, if you told me it had nothing to do with the agenda today? Mr. Ristic, what can I say to you, because it is likely that a lawyer and justice minister Dusan Petrovic will do something about it. You as a great legal expert, as a great expert, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, when there were 308 MPs, and don't forget that is your most famous role in the Serbian parliament, you were the head of a commission that was supposed to do the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're that famous Bosko Ristic author. You haven't moved past the first letter of preamble. I think you're doing better than that car reselling and that nickname you already have, "Amile," or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1603	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared. Mr. Baralic, may I remind you that you only have 11 minutes left as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1604	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time a esteemed colleague, Ristic reports a word, there is a real danger of bringing someone into legal and factual error. There's a whole assembly of MPs now having trouble with that, but, well, we'll sort it out some other time. About what Mr. Ristic worships others, let me just say about the weapon. Even 487 long pipes were stolen from the Old Town OUP on October 5th. The operation was run by famous Democrats Nebojsa Covic. These weapons, meanwhile, killed four people -- two from Zemun, one from Batajnica and one from Pancheva. It's now the subject of certain procedures. On October 5th, more than 200 art paintings from the Federal Assembly (Sumanovic, Konjevic and others) were stolen. 87 still unaccounted for. Could it be the case of one prosecutor in Serbia, one deputy prosecutor, one prosecutor who doesn't have another job, which is done. I hope that moment comes. In particular, I draw attention to studying this problem that 87 exhibits have disappeared from the "white salon" of Prince Pavel Karadjordjevic. It's invaluable artistic value. Where are the things that didn't burn and aren't on the spot? So much for that, because there is no selective justice and don't accuse others of raising a revolution. The revolution exists in the history of civilization. And this was your revolution, except the revolution can sometimes be the real consequence of the delusion, that those who perform it believe it was democratically. It's just not possible and it's not true. The revolution is a revolution. Regarding what is on the SPS agenda today, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, as an authorised representative, today said we will not vote and why we will not vote. I'd like to say a few things. You're wandering between two of these legal schools -- Anglo-Saxon and continental. I don't know who you're courting. A country where laws like this are changed at any moment, such as the one whose application is delayed today, has no legal certainty, citizens do not have legal certainty. You force judges, prosecutors, lawyers, and everyone else to constantly perfect their skills and to waste their time without the process being delayed. Says Mr. Ristic needs another 400 prosecutors. How many more prosecutors it takes to be a democratic country. I wish you'd said you needed 400 professors, you need 400 doctors, you need 400 philosophers, you need 400 painters; no, you need 400 prosecutors, you need 2,000 cops, then 26,000 clerks that you brought here on October 5th. How long it takes to confirm democracy. Who exactly does this apply to? The key question is whether a country is a state if it is unable to implement a law adopted by the parliament. You're postponing a year and a half or 19 months. My colleague Andric isn't here today, but he said one sentence and I want to take it out with her. It is not true that MPs have no choice when it comes to this agenda. Eight months this parliament has not worked, not because it has not had the capacity to work, but because someone has told you that you have to organise elections, because someone has been amazed because Ratko Mladic has not been arrested yet, and here he is not yet arrested, and they are back in the government. Because you couldn't make a government for four months, and for many more, you are now unable to get the law that was adopted where it belongs, or to start applying it. Serbian citizens paid for it, paid for one ton of paper, paid for 5,000 parliamentary diaries, paid 5,000 km for each day when you passed this law. Then who steals the citizens' money? You steal, because you are unable to lead the state and are unable to organise the lives of this country in the way you spoke in election campaigns and as you declared in your political programme. No, you're in vivo every day, you're playing, you're experimenting every day in a way to organize the state. You should honestly say, we don't know, we'll learn. When you learn, you raise this money, you organize the campaign, and then you start again and you make the election, and then you come and say, "Here we are, the trainee rule in Serbia." It's no shame not to know. It's a shame not to ask anyone who knows. I'm sorry, I thought Mr. Nikolic was a well-informed man when he mentioned these ministers, but Mr. Nikolic, they're all good and honest people, although in the area where they were born to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1605	Mr. Wolf, according to the Rules of Procedure. You have to say on what basis, Mr. Baralic's exposure or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1606	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I haven't even come to the pay phone, I haven't been able to climb this step, and Mr. Albianic is being alarmed and nervously reacting. I went out, Mr. Albianic, by Article 101, precisely because of what one of the MPs here was saying, and I'm going to say how and what he was saying. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, we were here this morning listening to the lesson of Minister Petrovic, yesterday listening to the whole nation read the letter and thanking the judges who showed how bravely and by conscience can be tried. When the verdict suits him, it is brave and by conscience, a quote from Mr Petrovic. This morning he says, no, I didn't comment on the verdict at all. He didn't comment on anything, he just said that the judges who reached that verdict were very brave and that they made it by conscience. This is what the Democratic Party had to do with you. That's them. One of the previous speakers is I don't know what he tried to say about politics, criminals, and I don't know what else. Now I'm going to read this, tonight's Evening News has brought, a regimeal newspaper a couple of excellencies, here's what they say, yesterday's, I'm sorry. On Thursday, 24 May, he says, (see what the judge concludes) "Dr Djindjic was killed after democratic changes in Serbia when most citizens believed Serbia could be saved by word, work and work," Mesarovic's oral statement began. What does that have to do with legal or any facts, what does that have to do with any legal argument, what does it have to do with facts and anything? But, of course, this isn't exactly true. Not only is this not an actual truth, the citizens know that. First of all, the judge can't do that. It's not hers to do politics. It's hers to deal with facts and to rule on facts, respecting the laws of this country. And not to be smart, to be courted by Minister Petrovic, Boris Tadic, Milan Markovic, Sutanovac, and who was still in the Special Court that day, or to court Sam Nazar, or anyone else who commands them to judge. We found out from other papers, this is justice, but we found out the next thing; that she started reading judgment in a different way. Mrs. Mesarovic, the respected citizens of Serbia, said: "Ladies and gentlemen, I received a verdict, uh, excuse me, I'm sorry, I've reached a verdict. '"I don't have to tell you what the head of Vienna's psychoanalysis school, Zigmund Freud, would say about this, but it's quite clear that this political-related lady didn't pass the verdict, she won the verdict. On the aside that we all knew that she had received the verdict, the key question is who she received that verdict from, whether from Tadic, whether from Solana, Sam Nazar or anyone else. How is that possible? For your question, Mr. Petrovic. You are the minister of justice, as minister, as a man who should take care of all citizens of Serbia, you would do well to tell us, and on what basis are condemned people who have glued posters that read Bulevar Ratko Mladic, because some people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1607	Mr. Wolf, you're breaking business time. Four minutes are up. It's three minutes according to the Rules of Procedure, and now it's four minutes and 10 seconds. Time's up for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1608	Mr. Petrovic, I ask you, are you ashamed that because of you and your behavior, do you feel a little uncomfortable that people are in jail without knowing why they're in jail, at least tell us why? Which are crimes or crimes committed. It's good that the citizens of Serbia know. That they know why it's going to prison in Serbia for a month. It's okay, if it's legal. That's fair. If they go for General Ratko Mladic's posters, I personally expect to be arrested, because I did the same myself, with much greater social danger, in front of five million people. I'll tell you later and I'll tell you again here. Since I know they can't touch me because of the assembly pay phone, I did it elsewhere, and I am taking the opportunity to call my free-loving citizens, and I am informing you, Mr. Justice Minister, and we are calling you and counting on you to at least once talk about freedom, if nothing else, although you are now completely abolishing the citizens of Serbia, all people who love freedom, tomorrow's action for freedom of Serbia, at 11.55, at the corner of Bulevar AVNOJ Street and Spanish fighters, we will be putting together the posters of Bulevar Ratko Mladic and we are waiting for the police to come to arrest their people. Mr Petrovic, live freedom, freedom in Serbia will not kill you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1609	I ask the MPs not to violate the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1610	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when on October 5th, that elemental disaster struck Serbia, at the top of that wave, the flood, were some you call experts, experts for everything and everything. And, of course, since it didn't really happen on October 6th, and since you didn't kill what you planned to kill, since you didn't arrest long-term prisoners and condemn those you wanted to convict, it turns out that at least two-thirds of those experts have been convicted, and this one-third of them haven't been discovered yet, some of these days are being discovered among them. And then, you said, by October 5th, it wasn't good, it wasn't good, it wasn't good for the state, all those laws had to be put out of force and new laws were passed. Of course, he ordered Big Brother and then he went to the stand, mass stamping, copying, according to the system of Resava law school from the white world. I warned from this assembly payphone several times law-makers, I don't think they wrote them, just brought them across the bag line, possibly translated them here for adoption, I warned you that lawmakers that many of these laws, and to remind you, about 260 laws were passed in the previous term, not applicable to us, and that we are passing laws that would stand on a shelf or possibly serve a minister or an author of these laws to sign the dedication of friends when they give them. You remember seal protection laws, and Serbia has two seals in the Belgrade Zoo. You remember the law on banning piracy on the high seas. Primer, if you have anything for the pay phone and say it, and I have something else for you, I'll say something else after that. As we passed all the laws, so did the Penal Code. The criminal code has been prescribed from Bosnia and Herzegovina, there have also been passed by legislators of the law from the West and applied in two ways. So in Republika Srpska, the prosecutor is the manager and the entire team behind him is working, gathering evidence, investigating and doing so in Republika Srpska. In the Bosnian Federation, I'm a prosecutor and there's literally no telling who's drinking or who's paying, and everybody's drunk, right. Then we came into the situation that we passed the law that we should have started applying it now and only when the minister came into office to determine a few things. First, there are no financial resources, secondly, the prosecution is not equipped to deal with this business, not with the people, not with the equipment, not with the third floor, because the prosecution has to dramatically increase the number of employees, because the part that's been called so far -- the investigation and where the investigating judges have been doing. Of course, the first step he could have taken was to ask for a stay of law for a year and a half, and they could have been automatically in six or seven years, because they won't be able to apply after that either. There's one thing you forgot, and it's previous, and it's previous, and it's before the previous government, and it's that the prosecution, that the judiciary, that the prosecutor, that the judges are craftsmen, that this trade is being roasted by the intern coming to the prosecution, and then there's some time schooling so that he can become an associate, and then there's a certain period of time, he perfects himself, so he comes to the level of deputy municipal prosecutor, and then it goes on for a couple of years, at least a walk or seven years. It's the same with the judges, the judge's intern, he'll write the calls first, then the redundancies, and then after that, he'll write the judgments of the judge. What did you do? You've been employed at the Deputy Prosecutor's office, but the secretary of agricultural cooperatives, secretaries of schools, primary, eight-year-olds, had to be their only qualification to have your membership card. These people came to the D.A.'s office, so don't yell, "Whoa," but look at how it's in the judiciary, and then it'll all be clear to you. These people come to the courtroom, they don't have connections, then they have to from interns and professional associates to learn how to run the process, how to ultimately pass judgment. And it's been a while, it's been four or five years until they become what they are, mostly no judge or anything like that, mostly no prosecutor. You've ruined, you've destroyed a whole system that's working and it has to work no matter which party is in power, no matter who's taking over the levers of power at the moment. It is something that must not be subject to those parties who take over the government. And now, before the end of it, let me move on to these two laws that are on the agenda today. Reasons for the adoption of the law: Since this code provides for the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, it is necessary to create the necessary material and technical conditions, and since these conditions are not secured, a delay in the application of this law is proposed. In order for these conditions to be secured, you need incredible resources, first of all in buildings, you need a lot of prosecutors, deputies, and a whole apparatus that follows this, because a whole segment of the judiciary, from the field of regulation and justice, is now literally, this law that we need to change this, pushed into the seal. Of course, since it is time for this law to be applied, and it is inapplicable, it is normal to ask that this law be passed by emergency procedure. However, there is something in this second part, something that should really be introduced to the citizens of Serbia, and the Members of the People are more or less familiar, except for some, but they should not be spoken of, I mean, of course, on "the example". In Article 146, paragraph 3, which you are asking to delete, it says - since the prosecution, detention may take the longest two years. In order to remind you that in the previous Criminal Code, there was a much lighter variant, and then you, in order not to escape, possibly, criminals, extended your custody. So he says, it could take the longest two or four years. By this law, if you abolish this position on the 3rd of this Article, 146 detention can take a virtually unlimited amount of time, because you will always find an opportunity and even make a verdict for him, he will already serve a part of the prison. What's also dangerous, and it's here, is when a first-degree verdict is given, and then the second-degree verdict has to confirm first-degree, even if the court council doesn't agree second-degreely with this, because a man will already serve a certain number of months or years in prison, so you have to cover it up. In the end, this government suffers from so-called. Expertism. We have an expert government, some new experts, so let me remind you, Minister of Science, Ana Pesikan, published a book, though, as a co-issuer, because the big book, this fat, costs 400 dinars, couldn't think of it itself, and it's called "How to become and stay stupid." I see some MPs in this section have read the book, and I see that some books have worked. Of course, the example doesn't apply, he was born that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1611	Mr. Wolfie, you've already been out of business. MP Alexander Vukic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1612	I would ask you, Mr. Albianic, to read the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to tell me if I went out or not. That doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure. Take care, act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I want to inform the public, citizens of Serbia, according to the latest information we have received from prominent lawyers, the arrest of young men who have been involved in the glue of posters, imagine the terrible crime, that I mean the most serious organized crime in this country, that's the biggest pain for this country, that some guys have taped three or four charts on one street or on one street, anyway, so my question for you, Mr. Petrovic, is when it's going to stop. When will it stop or maybe it won't stop? I also welcome your decision not to stop. I even have to be quite honest, with great enthusiasm I would welcome that decision because the citizens of Serbia would be, but absolutely everyone, clearly what power we have. Just don't, I'm asking you to make a difference between people. Don't arrest them without arresting others. That's why you, Mr. Petrovic, only your job, but explain it to the people - we arrest them for endangering public order and peace, we arrest them for this, we arrest them for that. If this poster is due to Bulevar Ratko Mladic, therefore you arrest all people, continue to be arrested by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1613	Mr. Wolfie, we've seen that poster before. You have referred to the Rules of Procedure, please explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and do not engage in the streets, since there are no streets in the Assembly. Where you get the poster report to the competent security services in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1614	I would ask you not to count on me these half minutes, Mr. Albianic, which you have taken from me. I'm not amazed by what Mr. Albianic says. I didn't expect any better from him, but I'm surprised there are people who are laughing at Mr. Albianic's stupidity. I can expect a lot of things in my life, but to have someone say they interrupt me in half the exposure, in half the speech with it -- we've already seen it; Mr. Albianic, we've seen and heard your balloons when you celebrated the death of Slobodan Milosevic, so no one has arrested you, Mr. Albianic. We've seen you raise your tears and do things when people die or when they're killed, so celebrate it, so no one touches you. We have seen, Mr. Albianic, that you are beautiful all the streets, so no one touches you, both in Novi Sad, and in Pogorevec. We've seen your people, and some Democratic Party youth, very brave and strong, come and tear up some posters, and then when you tell them, come and tear up when there are people, because you're very brave and strong, they say, it's an invitation to a fight. I just think that what you throw away and that you insult these people and call them fools is talking about you. They're not fools, they're young people who realize that you took away what's most important to them, and that's freedom, and that's why these young people have an idea that you don't have, and that's why you can't beat them. I'm calling you, since I hear you have a dilemma about how...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1615	It's time to report to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf, four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1616	I thought that by choosing Oliver Dulic, this assembly has seen the worst since the stock market fell and beyond, which has been unrecorded in the history of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, but I see that tomorrow's actions on the Belgrade Stock Exchange could fall much more, as soon as they saw the people of Albianic as chairman. Mr. Albianic, just one more time to end the trouble of your regime. Since I hear that you have a dilemma at the top of your power whether to continue the arrest, whether it applies to some of us, to cover your troubles, hurry up, arrest everyone in the state, tie hands and feet to people however you can, whatever you can, because freedom is getting closer, and then all the chaires will be shot at leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1617	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 226, which says that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, including the Minister. Given that Mr. Dusan Petrovic is here, I am really asking the question when he will break up with this way of functioning of the state and courts for violations, which are directly the perpetrators of the political will of the parties in power. In this case, I suppose it's the DS, because Mr Petrovic, and you from the DS, you must understand that in Serbia there are people who think differently from you, that it has always been, that it will be after you. It doesn't start with you, it doesn't end with you. You have to understand that there are people who have different values, different prices for certain roles of individual people. I need to remind you of some of our recent past, and I need to remind you of Milos Obilić. He, after a certain time, was banned because of the act he performed, and only with the help of the people's gusals and knee-to-knee transmissions were his work excelled in the Serbian people and therefore we got rid of the Turks. I'd like to remind you of Gabriel Principe. At one point he was declared, even convicted for the work he had done, but after a certain time he became a folk hero. They respected that act that he performed. So leave time to assess everyone's role, especially the role of General Ratko Mladic, who devoted a good part of his life to defending the Serb people in Republika Srpska. You need to know that there are many people on that street who are from Republika Srpska, and you can't fool them with any stories, to scare off any arrests. They simply believe that what you think you should do and give the street of Zoran Djindjic, they find it inappropriate. A certain number of younger people have appeared who feel that they may need a different name, including Ratko Mladic, that it is completely legitimate and that you cannot bring people in, arrest and criminally condemn them. It only speaks of your weakness, of your fear, and you show it all the time. You also showed when you gave the verdict. If you're sure of the court's impartiality, if you're sure that the court will judge based on facts, why did it take you young to bring to court with those parolees - 40 years is little? What are you up to? For the death penalty? (President: Time.) ) Among other things, the vice president of the party, whose member is now chairing the assembly, said he is sorry that the death penalty has been lifted. You must understand once that there are general criteria that should apply to both you and everyone else. You're not above it. One more thing I'd like to point out to you. You had a chance to see it in the paper today. According to the Amnesty International annual report, America is the most criticised in human rights violations, especially when it comes to the war of terrorism and war in Iraq. Also, European countries have been particularly criticised, which have done everything to help violate human rights by the United States, by allowing secret prisons across Europe, where people without a court have been brought, tortured and forced to admit things they have not done. Therefore, come to your senses and return to traditional Serbian values.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1619	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Please use the Rules of Procedure. It's three minutes in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1620	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, so you let me use the Rules of Procedure, I was just worried when you told Mr. Vukic, you were already answering the Rules of Procedure. I warn you, Mr. Albianic, that you have sinned on Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP can talk about the Rules of Procedure whenever he wants, as many times a day. You, as chairman or anyone else sitting in that seat, are obliged to give priority to the MP, who appears under the Rules of Procedure. I'm surprised you didn't learn that, but here, read it two or three times, maybe even remember. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will return a few days ago when Minister Milan Markovic first appeared as minister in public and said his first public statement is that he agrees that Bulevar AVNOJ bears the name Bulevar Zoran Djindjic. In Article 120. The Law on Local Self-Government says the local self-government unit assembly determines the names of streets, squares, urban districts, settlements and other areas of settlement on its territory. The local self-government unit assembly, and in this case it is the city of Belgrade, and I would like first of all to inform the public that the Belgrade City Assembly has never decided that Bulevar AVNOJ is called Bulevar Zoran Djindjic. The fact that these young people, who otherwise think that Bulevar AVNOJ should not be called Bulevar Zoran Djindjic, but think it should be Bulevar Ratko Mladic, have shown their will in a perfectly appropriate and democratic way. I was, by the way, informed by people living in Bulvar AVNOJ that they were harassed by some who were collecting signatures to change the name of the street, so they asked me, what can you do to protect us here? I said, people, it's a democratic right, they go door to door looking for signatures, if you sign for it, and if you don't. People say, how do we sign, for us, Zoran Djindjic is a mobster, how can that be called Bulevar AVNOJ's name. Of course, I share that opinion, as I share the opinion that Ratko Mladic is a hero, and I heard one MP from this assembly majority, who says on one television that Ratko Mladic is a criminal. Who proved that Ratko Young is a criminal? That's inadmissible. The mobster is different, sir, qualifications, Zoran Djindjic is a mobster, and it doesn't have to be proved, it proves the facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1621	Please, Mrs. Radeta, Mrs. Radeta, time's up and don't use offensive expressions, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1622	Just ten more seconds, excuse me, please. A group of citizens from Bulevar AVNOJ also asked me to pass on their wish to this parliament to call Bulevar AVNOJ instead of Zoran Djindjic, according to the most promising pilot Radosavljevic, who died in NATO aggression in the territory of Republika Srpska, who lived today as his family lives in Bulevar AVNOJ. And they say they wouldn't stand for that boulevard called Bulevar Zoran Djindjic, because our heroes died because Djindjic called NATO bombers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1623	Please, let us express ourselves with dignity. The People's Messenger, Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, has the word, and let the Messenger Zoran Krasic be prepared. The parliamentary group has another five minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1624	Thank you very much. I'll try to fit in in in five minutes. Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, a lot of interpretations have been said so far, and opinions, and conclusions, not only on the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have heard and mentioned many events from closer or further to the past in Serbia, many other laws in Serbia and the state of legislation in Serbia have been criticised and mentioned. First of all, I want to draw some general conclusions from all these conclusions, together with the citizens of Serbia, and I call on them to analyse together what has been said so far. I want to express once again the clear position of the SPS, that we will never vote for this law that represents an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, above all, because of the fact that these proposed laws are being extended. And this arrest, which lasted four years, basically left too much time for the work of the authorities. Also, we are against this detention being practically and formally extended to 40 years. We want to inform the citizens of Serbia that this bill practically extends to 40 years. You'll say it's 40 years for some limited time, but there are people for which 40 years is not limited time, and it can happen that the detention will last for the rest of their lives. It's another thing that's interesting. It is an interesting discrepancy between what the Constitution proposes and what this law proposes. Namely, the Constitution suggests, let's remember, a three-month detention, the constitution suggests that detention should take as short as possible time. The constitution is the will of the people, what the people have voted and what the people desire. The law has been proposing for 40 years. The law is not the will of the people. The law is the will of the government. We wonder if it's possible that there is such a discrepancy between the leader of the people and the will of the government. Is that democratic? Is it moral that time to collect evidence practically extends so much? Is for a long time gathering of evidence, whether the length of time left to the competent authorities will increase the efficiency of their work or not? I'm sure he won't. The extension of time only reduces the efficiency of the work of the competent authorities. One question arises if we do not violate the European Convention on Human Rights. Don't we violate the code of humanity and humanity of those people who are in custody? Once again, I want to remind Serbian citizens that people who are detained are people who are deprived of freedom, but people against whom there are charges, but no one can say whether they are guilty or not. Should they in that delusion be 40 years of their lives: are they guilty or not guilty? For an honest man, for a man who is not guilty, an innocent man is a great punishment. It's something he's experiencing in a specific way. For many, it will be the first time they have been detained, but for one who is guilty of detention can also be a great reward, because for him, too, detention is only a milder degree of punishment. That's why the SPS certainly won't take part in all this and vote for these bill proposals, because we're not going to follow the so-called. the democratic trend of extending the length of detention over four years, that is, for the next 40 years. What is also safe and why the SPS will not vote, it is also that the SPS has noticed the trend of re-enacting some ideas that once harassed Serbia in 2000. If, in fact, we remember how the government, who formed the government, was formed, then we will easily recognize some ideas that had been harassed by Serbia in 2000, some ideas that had already carried out the "Sabbe" action and which have been tasked with perhaps completing that action that they had not completed, and that even Serbian citizens are trying to justify that action. Normally, we understand that, and we assume that these laws will pass the will of most MPs in the Assembly, because I just want to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this majority of parliamentarians here who are going to vote these laws are not free will of most MPs, it is not the free will of the people, it is the free will of some other power centers, which may want to wave in Serbia. In the end, I just wish I hadn't gone over with time to remind the citizens of Serbia that the SPS has a lot more facts, evidence, but unfortunately, time is short. The SPS certainly won't vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1625	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word. Let the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1626	What is certain in the National Assembly is that once a year there must be talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure. So far, it has been a practice for one criminal code to be on the agenda. However, we now have two Codes of Criminal Procedure. We've got a new one and an old one. We've got a new one that's in effect, but it's not applicable, and we've got an old one that's out of force, and it's being applied. I'm just reading what's written in the bill, not confusing. Those are the words written in the bill. The logicists used to sit here, professors, who were always disgusted when they found such a mental structure of the promoters, and usually Mr. Milosevic went out to drink a glass of water, to cool off, because he simply can't understand that something like that works during the period of booming democracy in the territory of the Western Balkans. Now we've got this situation right. What changes from the expertly best bill passed last year? It would probably just have to change the expertise of those who wrote that law. Last year, we criticised the new Code of Criminal Procedure and made a number of arguments. I can't exactly say if there were more than 100 or less amendments. It's probably Peter Jojic knows better. From members to members we went, submitted amendments, and tried to save something, to hold back some of the 2001 solutions. And in 2001, a new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was the result of the work of a team of professors, criminal law experts and criminal-processing law, was brought in, and then gave the law an assessment as a good law for our conditions, although it was done in 1998-1999, but only in 2001 could it be passed. Last year, a new Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted and the whole concept was changed. He's no longer with the coroner, he's not in court, he's turning himself in to the prosecutor. What would happen before the search is with the prosecutor, except for the solution to determine the detention, which is with the investigative judge and, depending on these next stages, can be even greater or higher court. Then we came from this pay phone, I think it took seven days to discuss it, trying to convince the also concluded majority that it cannot live in Serbia. That's when they said -- well, you don't know anything anymore, the Americans finance it, that law was done by the team, but it looks a little bit like it's been prescribed by the Republika Srpska code, it's all going to be okay, the prosecutors are going to accept the job to conduct the investigation, in the meantime we're going to train them, they can't dictate to us how it's going to work, they're going to work. In addition to the SRS, probably the SPS, everyone else was in favour of passing the law. So came a new law that couldn't be applied. Three or four members of the new law apply. What members? Members who regulate the witness, right, new solutions concerning the witness associates. Why was it brought in? Because of the special court. The law since 2001 has also been amended in this assembly in 2004. What was the reason then for the changes in that law? Danica Draskovic, a major factor in Serbia's political scene in 2004. She asked to increase detention, so that those suspected of the Ibar highway, because it stood out, would not be released. There's no criminal justification for changing our criminal code. There's always some personal interest. One time, Danica Draskovic, second time the Zemun clan, third time who knows what. Now it's Kljajevic, you know. He knows Dusan Petrovic why he has to help Kljajevic. He knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows. What did democracy bring us? She brought us appeal courts in the text of the law, but they're not in practice. Batic even had an item in the budget in 2003 and 2002 to build new buildings. The money's been spent, but there's no building. Where's the guy who said Natasha was talking about buildings? There's no building. There's nothing. It's all been robbed. You know we don't have a final account for six years. It's democratic fluid, please, it's your fluid. There's no bill, you don't file any reports, you pull where you get. It is a democracy in Serbia directed by DS, NGOs, media and support systems. In democracy, anything is possible. Even divorced husband and wife, who haven't suffered in years, couldn't look at each other, sat next to each other to hold a press conference, to poop with someone with a B92. You manipulate citizens. Now let's get back to these concept differences of yours. To better understand what the Democrats want to introduce in Serbia, I will take an example of what is happening in The Hague tribunal. There's an investigation led by a prosecutor, Carla del Ponte, with senior and lower prosecutor's representatives, and a team of investigators. At the stage of an investigation where a search party is asked only to confirm the indictment and bring arrest warrants. So, same as in our Code of Criminal Procedure. How do they conduct an investigation? We organized a scientific gathering, 34 court-confirmed statements exist, what was done, how was done. What is the attitude of what you are all calling upon, the European Court of Human Rights, when it comes to the application of Articles 5 and 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? As they interpret a reasonable term, from chance to case. Why, because their legal logic is based on precedents, not on strong, firm law and not so much on the principle of legality, but on the principle of legality with them is a stretching category like "orbit" gum. That's how they treat them. You just need to understand that there have been extremely good provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure which have been a time-limited detention, extremely good, because the European Court of Human Rights is a question of the rights of the accused of an expeditionive trial to be interpreted on an arbitrary basis, from case to case. In one case, the reasonable term was 17 years in custody, and in one it was 18 months. You can't take the time of detention to interpret beyond what's a presummation of innocence. In order for you to better understand what the presumption of innocence is, I'm going to show it to you on one case. When Zoran Djindjic was elected Prime Minister Rajko Danilovic, this former secretary of the Union of Communists of the Bar Association, he filed a criminal complaint against Zoran Djindjic, as he prevented the case of the "Ibar Highway" from being solved and claimed that Zoran Djindjic is guarding the Legion and others. A criminal report has been filed, Zoran Djindjic was then protected by a presumption of innocence, not guilty because legal proceedings did not prove that he did some work that could have something to do with obstruction of justice. You know, when charges are filed, it's a self-initiative act to conduct the procedure, but it's not a matter of presummation of innocence. You can, if you hate him, tell him the defendant, but in normal communication you have to call him sir. He has all the rights, his bed sheets, his clothes, his food, to read, to write, to do his profession, he's just deprived of freedom of movement, but all his rights are guaranteed while he's in custody. What do you want to change now? You want to tell the Serbian citizens that prosecutors are investigating -- that's what we were joking about, they're not capable of it because we haven't trained them. How come we didn't train them? Well, we didn't even manage to train them even when the government chose them in 2003, during "Sablje", because then just like Bosko Ristic told us -- it's not even a judicial function, it's more executive, what's there to decide the National Assembly, that the government should sit down. I think 160 and some people were kicked out of the D.A.'s office. I don't know how many procedures are still under way. A lot of people are out of work. Stojkovic promised - we'll get you all back. Someone's back, but 90% isn't. And for the record, those who conduct the procedure will not return you, even though they have kicked you out of work. DS when it reaches the authorities, destruction, burned ground after them. I'm giving you examples, you've ruined everything in the judiciary, absolutely ruined everything in the judiciary when you worked. And the legal delusion of the professor of law school, and the staffing of Mr. Ristic, and the staffing of Mr. Petrovic. There's more people on the Justice Committee, here's a smile on Rajko and the others. We also have authentic testimony from some courts that during DOS, we even have letters -- you, us, us, more of our own than theirs, let's let someone of ours go. And one even made progress on the day he dictated the agreed verdict, elected Judge of the District Court. They were baptized with both their left and right hands when they saw, unable to understand that such a man could make so much progress, that he was in the District Court, because, according to them, that man should not enter court. I remember something in Valyev, I guess, was it a trade or don't I know which one? Yeah, there's a lot of them. And he came from the farming company, and the children of some lawyers, and he was in the front line, and he participated in the burning of the National Assembly, and deserved to share justice. You know, a simple experience makes us think that when we get a bill of law, and by any chance she suggests that power in which even if the DS participates, it has to be looked at, there's some kind of a hoax, so be sure. You who are in the judiciary, that I am not in your skin, after this election as minister of justice. Did you hear from Bosko Ristic just now? He's not interested in the Constitution at all. He says - I hope the minister will take care when he proposes who we choose for judicial functions. So where does the minister have the authority to propose? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? Because everything they do, it's democratic, it's legal, it's based on the law, on some regulation. Now we have to buy the official watch, we have to buy the official watch for the Democratic Party. Everything has to be because of the DS. You're simply not similar to a multiparty system, you don't accept the assets of a multiparty system, you don't allow the opposite opinion, you can't accept that you're co-existing someone you don't like, you want to destroy him, you simply can't exist. He can't, he can't exist, no one can stand up to DS. Well, you can write expertise, scientists, whatever you want to do -- it's no good. Besides, you were best described by William Montgomery the other day, he wrote it all down nicely. These divisions of yours -- the democratic block -- says it doesn't exist. There is no such division on the globe of the Earth, but here there is - B92, Blic, these, they, NGOs, Sonja, as it was, Licht etc. She appointed that Jesic as president of the municipality. Those who stole money, him and Risticevic, they're her staff. You are a tool in other people's hands, what Djindjic knew how to say about the mass organisation of DS, he says - contractors. What you know about him is contractors. You're the performers of some dirty work who feel they don't deserve to get their hands dirty. The dirtiest job you have to do here in Serbia and you are deeply aware of it. You're going to have a lot of trouble with your safety, but that's another question, for those things I'm really not in charge of. Now something, see, if there can be those people you hire to create a new criminal code, because it is quite evident that we have to have it and that it should be some normal regulation, preferably in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I can't say it's mandatory to be in agreement, because I doubt your view of constitutionality and legality. So, this concept, which in international human rights acts is usually treated as a reasonable period or without undue delay, should be accepted conditionally, for one simple reason why, and when the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was adopted in 1950, no terminology could be found for all countries of Europe, because different systems existed. This system has been revived with us that the length of detention has been prescribed by law. What the law stipulates is that the length of detention is precisely in the function of an expeditional trial, that the one committing the prosecution be as active as possible in providing evidence, the execution of the accused before the court and the swift completion of the court proceedings. If our courts begin to interpret a reasonable deadline, without undue delay, the right to an expeditional trial, and by any chance, someone smart to interpret it in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' decisions, whether obstruction was caused by the prosecution's actions, his incompetence, whether because of the obstructive conduct of the accused or the defence, whether because of the objective inability of the court to carry out the proceedings, then they will arrest us to last for quite a long time. According to the current law, if you take all the stages of the criminal procedure, it's now, I haven't added up, for about seven years, when everything is added up in these stages. That's too long. Vojislav Seselj has been in custody for five years. Twice, the court found that his right to an expeditional trial had been violated. It has been found twice that his right to defend himself has been violated. Twice, it was found that the conditions for fair and just trial were not met. This country has been silent. This country, this government, the previous one, and this one, is complicit with Carla del Ponte in violating human rights. I remind you, human rights and those who fight for human rights must not be selective in their approach, so now I like this one, I don't like this one. They must have some kind of objectivity in them. And as it stands with us with a dose of objectivity among those who pretend to be NGOs, so here, the Resistance has all entered the Democratic Party, and as we can see now, Cesid is going. So they were never objective. There were always some screws, some part of a system to grind. You're going to have to make an account, of course, we're against these changes because you're making us believe you once, so when we just start trusting you, you're asking for it to change, and then you're telling us, don't believe in us. We don't know when you're telling the truth. Did you tell the truth last year, do you speak today? God forbid if you happen to be in power by December 2008, here's our law on amendments and amendments to the law. Of 280 and some laws, which boasted Markovic that this assembly had passed, I think over 60% have been amendments and additions to democratic laws since 2001. From the Democratic Party, DOS only got us something bad. Why? Because they're here to destroy the state structure, to establish some new system of values, which one very often knows how to talk without being clear to anyone what that value is. Well, what's that worth? Is that worth keeping a man in custody for 17 years? Is that what we should be trying to do? Should we strive for Prijic to lead our investigation? It's either Prijic or the kind of guy they'd throw at if they worked in the D.A.'s office. He can't even read the text he wrote. Guys, what are we talking about? If we're talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure, then we're talking about human rights, there's nothing else to talk about. If you're making improvisations on the subject of human rights in the system, if we want a kilo or two, throw your hand in the air to make a deal, then there's nothing out of human rights. Remember you who do most, you make mistakes. You make a mistake in continuity, regardless of the composition of that majority. There are spares here that will break in when they need to, if something goes wrong that you can't make a deal about. There are two or three groups that jump in as a backup, as the Resistance has entered, and there's Cesid coming in. Who next comes in to preserve that democratic bloc. You change changed laws, you change laws that don't apply, you change laws that didn't come into force, you change laws that stopped. Guys, tell me what's going on in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1627	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1628	Dear People's MPs, we have two laws before us, or two draft laws amending the law on criminal proceedings. One amendment to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which, truth, came into effect, but with a delayed fact. The second is an amendment to the old Penal Code. It's for the public to say that the first one has two members and the second one has four members. That's what laws this law makes and that first DOS majority. We, the Serbian Radicals, very professionally pointed out and gave criticism, as well as pointed out that the tasks of the law enforcement officers, and in fact almost all the laws that you have passed in this assembly, that this puppet government has gradually, but certainly, left traditional European law and accepted the law of the Anglo-Saxon countries, which characterizes the great role of ordinary law and judicial practice. Of course, you all know that quality is on the side of our European law and on the mechanisms of application in practice. You have divided and destroyed the common state. So you hurried the last time you passed this law, which was another manipulation of power, because for its changes there was no valid reason. By this law, to remind you, you have abolished the basic principles and laid down the rules of procedure. The existing law was far better, both with regard to the jurisdiction of courts and with regard to the composition of a larger one. With this law, you have prescribed that an exemption from the President of the Court be decided by the Deputy President i.e. I am a lower body, which is simply incomprehensible and inadmissible, is one of the most common legal violence and the peak of self-will. How will the judge determine the truth if he is biased, if alone, i.e. his deputy participates in his exception. By law, it was very professionally indicated, Mr. Minister, that too much authority was given to the public prosecutor, and that is especially the conduct of the previous proceedings, i.e. the previous investigations and the conduct of the proceedings, which practically eliminated the judges under that old principle of "cadiya and suing - cadiya you judge". You gave him instructions that he simply couldn't have, for example, to initiate a disciplinary procedure against members of the internal affairs authorities. With this same law, you introduced the exclusion of defenders, that is, their dragon punishment, and even criminal persecution, which is what you predicted by that law, which practically defiled, or abolished, the defense. You've introduced these laws by law that have been incarcerated for six years, i.e. Theoretically, up to nine years. You predicted two or four years old. If it is known that detention is only a preventive deprivement of freedom to conduct a criminal procedure, then detention is only a necessary measure that must take as short a time as possible. The detention isn't a punishment, because otherwise there would be no difference between a detention institute and a prison sentence. For an detained person, my esteemed colleague Krasic, the government presumminates his innocence, for it is not considered a prisoner, but a person in custody. Look, they were then vulgarized to take the elements of the punishment which, I'm sure you'll agree, it must not be. However, it has not been for you for six years, i.e. nine years short of time, because it fits into your involvement in the work of the judicial authorities, and by doing so you repeatedly underestimate those organs, which you also showed at the last trial in the Special Court. First, you don't let them work by law, secondly, you don't trust the judicial authorities, except for your presidents and members of the council. It will, I'm sure, impose itself as a constant problem, even though you, I can tell them here, have long tied your hands. You, gentlemen of the DOS, have dirtyed and constantly soiled our laws, i.e. You bring laws that are inadmissible. This is what the SRS has been pointing at openly. In vain, we stated from this pay phone that this law on criminal proceedings is bad, and certain provisions are not applicable. These earlier had not heard the voices of the SRS, or voices of reason, i.e. the voices of the people, because it has been repeated many times that it is in vain "to whisper deafly and to wink blindly". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1629	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Let MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected a little more seriousness from the Solana government. I expected the National Assembly to have an insight into the report of the negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija. I was expecting the draft laws that we are obliged to discuss and to pass under the constitutional law. Also, I was expecting a budget law, but the continuity of this government, the entire previous assembly, we've been dealing with amendments to the law a few times already. Then in some report, we're boasting, then the president, he'll probably be doing it now, how many hundreds of laws we've passed, and it's all about maybe a hundred members of the amendments and additions to one of the laws. So you continue the same practice. Our people would say, "Till the priest and the goats cross." That's how you distract the National Assembly with something that doesn't really need to be done. I'll remind you of what some colleagues in the SRS have already reminded you of. When we discussed the Code of Criminal Procedure, then we Serbian radicals told you, warned the congregation majority, that you were passing inapplicable laws, that you were passing laws that were not in the spirit of our legal system. You didn't listen to us then. I'm talking about the first law when you were involved in Parliament's work. When this second one was brought in, then the DS did not participate, to remind, in parliament's work. We have, not only warned then, but we have also made an amendment and then proposed that our amendment that the Code of Criminal Procedure enters into force eight days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and that it applies from 1 January 2009. Of course, we have explained that this is necessary because of the complexity of the procedure, because of many obligations that need to be fulfilled in order to apply this code. Of course, the congregation’s majority had no hearing at the time. We were laughed at by fellow MPs when we said it was impossible before 1 January 2009 to provide conditions for the application of this law, as the congregation majority laughs today at everything we bring here. Unfortunately or fortunately, everything we say in a few months turns out to be true and what becomes our amendment, you later give us as a proposal from the government. So I warn you, you know that, Mr Petrovic, that I have been very often and that we have spoken very often on this subject here, so in time, I warn you that you listen to the MPs of the SRS, that you accept our amendments, because if you do this there is some chance that this job, which you chose at the moment when you were not a national MP, might be working hard. Without it, damn it, it's a dark hat. As far as this second bill of law is concerned, it is said here and it is true that this law is a copy of the UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure. We also warned the MPs and then the minister. We warned Serbia's authorities that we should not come out of the legal framework of the Serbian legal system, that we do not need bad examples of the UN tribunal, that we do not need co-workers' witnesses, who in the meantime remain the most profitable interest. The witnesses, whose statements are normally well cashed in advance, and of which one's life depends on the decision-making of your specialists, the judges of special departments, who are only special because, unlike their colleagues, who also work very complicated and very serious procedures, have three times the salary. In this they are special and by this is a special one, and Nata Mesarovic, who two days ago, in such deep blackness, began to reveal the verdict of the murder indictees, Zoran Djindjic, with a sentence: "Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a verdict... "and then she changed her mind and said, "they've reached a verdict... "but the rest was remembered first: they received a verdict, and remains the general public of Serbia unclear, from which they received the verdict. When it comes to the independence and independence of the judicial authorities, I would like to remind you that, when giving the verdict in the hall, there were ministers, Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, was also. I ask, which judge could have been relaxed, that he could pass the verdict, if he knew that he was closely watched by the President of the Republic and of course he knew what the President of the Republic was expecting. Although, I'm not sure, when I saw everyone sitting there, who was all sitting in that gallery, I remembered one verdict from these judge specialists, where completely contrary to common sense in the disposition of the decision, they gave the verdict they gave. Further in the explanation, they cited who was possibly guilty and not covered by the verdict, so I wonder if both Tadic and the ministers were sitting there to hear whether in the explanation of the verdict, Nata Mesarevic would mention any of the names, which are otherwise in Serbia public secret, which are possibly involved in the murder of Zoran Djindjic. As a lawyer with experience and knowledge, I wouldn't allow myself to comment on a first degree verdict, because I know it's inadmissible. But if it is done by the minister of justice, you, Mr Petrovic, if it is done by the president of your party, who, from time to time, and the president of the state, Boris Tadic, if the other ministers do so, then I must indeed, as a representative of the people, say that everything you did until the verdict was passed and that the pressure on the court, pressure on the court, pressure on those who made Nati Mesarovic the verdict and its council. What the democratic youth has done, when the families of the people accused and first-degreed convicted of a crime, are also inadmissible, and I am now addressing you as vice president of the Democratic Party or vice president or whatever you are. That's inadmissible. I remind you that this is the same democratic youth, which at a time when G17 plus launched an initiative to shut down the Serbian Radical Party, was then on the site of the democratic youth one of the answers to the question whether the Serbian Radical Party should be shut down, not shut down, but killed. It's a democratic youth. It is the Democratic Party and it is a democratic influence on judicial authorities. Of course, I don't want to say that this verdict is right or wrong, neither good nor bad. I leave it to the Supreme Court of Serbia and I am convinced that it will stop the pressures and that it will stop the special shows on B92, your television, and I believe that you will allow people to do their jobs professionally and that you will not convince them like this first degree that they are making political judgments, with a political explanation, which is absolutely unacceptable in the democratic system, Mr Petrovic. I believe you agree with this, but when you speak, you will say there was no pressure. Serbia's public has seen everything and heard everything, but Serbia's public also expects the court, which has given way to this verdict, to perhaps extend the reasoning in that written part of the verdict, because I'm not sure that all the persons that should have been covered by this verdict are covered. Like I'm not even sure everyone who's convicted is guilty. I repeat, I expect the Supreme Court to be just and according to the law-based verdict. Perhaps now your coalition partner, Dejan Mihajlov, as you remember he said, if you don't say so, he will say, and perhaps he will whisper who are really the inspirers and employers of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I will return to the amendments of these four members of the Code of Criminal Procedure, yet to compare this with The Hague tribunal and the UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure. There, I remind you, Serbian citizens have been well aware of this, for the fifth year, Serbian Radical President Vojislav Seselj has been imprisoned and there is a hint that his trial will begin in November. What the prosecution has done so far does not show us that it will be possible for the trial to begin in November, and you are doing something similar to the UN tribunal in this law. I remind you, Vojislav Seselj had his rights in The Hague tribunal to vote literally by putting his life at stake. At the time, no one in the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted, no human rights fighters reacted, of course most Serbian citizens reacted, the brotherly Russia reacted and, thank God, Vojislav Seselj remained alive and fought for his human rights. He's fully prepared to wait for The Hague's prosecution. Completely ready to do what he went there to defend Serbia and Serbia's national interests. I just want in one more sentence to inform and ask the citizens of Belgrade, above all New Belgrade, to join the Serbian Radical Party MPs tomorrow at 11.55 at the corner of Bulevar AVNOJ and Spanish fighters. Tomorrow, at 11.55, we're going to stick the entire Boulevard AVNOJ with posters that will be written by Bulevar Ratko Mladic. We are waiting, Mr Petrovic, for both you and your colleague Jocic, now on behalf of all MPs who will be present, we are giving up the parliamentary mandate, so let me see, as one MP who is not in the O.R. said last night on a show, in which, otherwise, Vukic ran him over, that they did not know which door to go out. He said these people who were arrested were arrested by some member of the law. Tomorrow when you come to arrest us eventually, you'll have to tell exactly what member and what law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1631	The word has been issued by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group. Tell me who broke the Rules of Procedure and by which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1632	My presentation is not directly related to the presentation of my previous speaker, Mrs. Verica Radete, who really explained by a professional and very reasoned explanation why this is a very bad law. Here, I'm just getting to it. Article 104 has been broken, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1633	That's what Serbian Radical Party MPs used to say. Don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1634	Please, just let me explain. The dignity of the National Assembly was injured when the dignity of the Serb people was injured. The dignity of the people was injured at a time when citizens began to get arrested on the streets just because they expressed different opinions than those represented by the government. I come from New Belgrade, I am an MP from this municipality, where Bulevar AVNOJ is located. The citizens call me, and I will tomorrow, and the citizens will be there tomorrow, as they call me all these days and call me the Serbian Radical Party, and they say, we will not live in the dark, even if it is democratic. We do not want to live in a country where young people, instead of colleges and work, are sent to prison, are severely tried and sent to 30 days of maintenance, because they dared to express a different opinion, because they dared to stick up a chart called Bulevar Ratko Mladic Street. Is it these young people's fault? As we see in today's debate, we will soon experience in the country, where one of these young people or one of those who thinks differently from the Lord on the left, from the ruling majority will be held for life without trial. Like what's happening to our president, Dr. Seselj. Are these the democratic assets to be transferred from The Hague? It is my special honor, therefore, to invite all citizens who think freely and who are not afraid to express their opinion, to come tomorrow at 11:55...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1635	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't abuse the pay phone. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and you have to explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1636	Here, I'm done. To come tomorrow at 11.45 and join the action that the Serbian Radical Party will perform – Freedom in five to 12. Because it's time for freedom, because the citizens are full of darkness, enough tyranny, and they want to live freely, and that's what the Serbian Radical Party will always fight for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1637	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the abolition of detention in the first-degree and second-degree criminal proceedings is a drastic violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which said in Article 31st position 2 that after the indictment of the length of detention, the court is reduced to the shortest possible time, in accordance with the law. I remind you that by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Government is in fact terminating the deadlines for the length of detention in the first-degree and second-degree criminal proceedings. Also, by adopting amendments and additions to this code, if that would happen, there would be a drastic violation of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact of 1966, which stipulates that detention can be determined and that it will last within a reasonable period. The explanation given by Minister Petrovic that, in the case of the most serious crimes for which the 40-year sentence is prescribed, i.e. for acts of organised crime, detention cannot last longer than the time prescribed for the maintenance of the sentence for those crimes, such an explanation would be completely pointless, since that would mean that people could be held in custody for 40 years and 10 years, respectively. The suspension of the term of detention in the first-degree and second-degree criminal proceedings opens the door to judicial self-will, arbitration, inefficiencies and impunity. Because Minister Petrovic would have to know, one of the basic principles of law, including criminal law, that it is the deadline that binds, and among other things, the judge. If the judge doesn't have the time limit in front of him, that means the criminal proceedings can be delayed. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, and so did my distinguished predecessors, that there is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has already felt that it is when a criminal procedure is conducted that does not have time to limit the length of detention, and that is the SRS President, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who has been in The Hague for more than four years and that his trial has not even begun. It is obvious that by these changes you are actually accepting the UN tribunal's criminal-processing logic, but not only the UN tribunal. Slobodan Jovanovic described the case as a minister, who served as interior minister at the beginning of the government of King Milan Obrenovic, named Radivoje Milojkovic. This Radivoje Milojkovic had a famous saying "first hit him, then ask him for a paragraph". That's how the UN tribunal works. First he accused Dr Vojislav Seselj, then for more than four years he sought evidence of his guilt. Of course, the suspension of detention deadlines violates human rights and freedoms drastically. This means that people can suddenly stay in custody without the process being completed. As for this second law, extending the time limit for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this is not the first case. I must remind you that the first government of Vojislav Kostunica has several times extended deadlines to begin the work of appeals courts. who haven't started working until today. Several times the deadline for the start of the administrative court's work has been extended. The administrative court was due to operate on January 1st 2007, and I ask Mr Petrovic if the court has started working until today. There's a drastic example of violations of legality in the Republic of Serbia that took place in 2006, and believe me, I'd know by chance that students at practice didn't tell me that. In 2005, a Law on Violations was adopted, which was due to be applied on January 1st 2007. Meanwhile, last year, 2006, an internal act by former Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic suspended the application of the Law on Violations. Ask judges today for violations under which law they are working under the old law, and if no law had been passed in the meantime on amendments and additions to the 2005 Law, which would have extended the time limit for the application of the law, it was already done by an internal act of the minister, which is totally unacceptable. And finally, Mr. Petrovic, I have no doubt that you and the members of the government are working under some laws, but these are not the laws of the Republic of Serbia, but, according to Vuk Karadzic, Baba Smiljana's laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1639	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. In fact, the moment we discuss amendments to this law here, just 15km from here, emergency assistance saves the lives of citizens who have been on strike for several days in the village of Grmovac because of the will of Belgrade's city authorities. You, Mr. Minister, are from that party run by Belgrade. For 10 years, DOS-Mali authorities in Belgrade have been harassing several thousand people in Grmovac by not releasing electricity through the power lines they built with their resources, through a low-voltage network they built with their resources, through an entire installation that they paid fatly. Part of the unsaved Serb people, who came from the Republic... What are you laughing at, you idiot? A part of the unscheduled Serb people who came here from Republika Srpska and came home thanks to the whim of the yellow monarchy throughout Belgrade, for 10 and more years they have had no electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1641	Thank you. Please don't use that word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1642	Mr. President, when you shut him up and learn how to behave, this thing that changed 14 parties, I don't even know what his name is, but I know all the parties he's changed, then you can take away my right to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I demand on behalf of the SRS, on behalf of the MPs' club and on behalf of those who strike hunger to explain to the peoples and citizens of Serbia who have given themselves the right to harass several thousand citizens of Serbia, several thousand Serbs for 10 and more years. I demand, given that it is only one signature of one of the undersecretaries of the City Assembly, that this part of the work be immediately completed and that people finally get electricity and live a life of decent citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1643	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1644	I would take the opportunity, since the distinguished minister is there, Mr Petrovic, to ask a question about Bruno Vekaric, the spokesman of the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes in Belgrade. The man, according to SRS, is negotiating with the Justice Ministry about some of his promotions, so I would like the minister of justice to tell me, if possible, whether he is in his capacity as spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office and to collect evidence in Serbia's territory. In part I will read you the conversation in a few sentences, please a little patience, this is the statement of one person with whom Bruno Vekarić spoke 13 April 2005: "When Bruno Vekaric entered the room, he also concluded - that I do not deserve to live so poorly. After that, Vekaric asked me if I owned any knowledge of war crimes committed by SRS volunteers in Chelopek, Zvornik, Sarajevo, Visegrad, Srebrenica, Mostar and other war-related places. Vekaric also promised me that if I was a protected witness, I would be fully materially provided, as well as members of my family. Bruno Vekaric, as well as so on. Not to mention, I said I didn't want to be a protected witness. "Is this the role of Bruno Vekaric in Serbia as a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office? I would ask you to answer this question, if possible, and answer my question, are you, as Minister of Justice, in negotiations with Bruno Vekaric about his promotion of credit for the war crimes prosecution?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1645	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please present yourself for a stenogram and read a member of the Rules of Procedure that you advertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1646	I'm advertising Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, let me ask you, how long will the government you belong to as minister be in violation of the Constitution? As far as we know, the Constitution doesn't know the privileged categories. On the one hand, you arrest young people who express their free political will, and may I remind you that on Wednesday in Bujanovac, the Constitution is directly injured, and Article 7, which refers to the coat of arms, flag and anthem, where Albanian anthem is intonated at the opening ceremony of the new high school in Bujanovac. I'm looking for an explanation of why in these cases the Constitution is being violated and given privileged categories to some people, and some are being arrested for freely expressing their political will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1647	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to send a message to all of us regarding these extension sessions of the National Assembly, to warn you that we are in violation of the Constitution. It's not sacred to you either. Article 60(4) states - everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his person on the job, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working hours. No one can give up those rights. It's the Constitution, so I'd ask you, in the future, when you propose an extension of your working time, to think of the Constitution that forbids you, and you who vote for it, when you sometimes have to vote, to think that you don't have the right to give up your right to work time, and you'll see how the Assembly would do more effectively if you knew you couldn't possibly hold a session. What does it look like when governments of short terms run the state? These two codes are a typical example. First, let me read to you what the minister signed, signed by Bozidar Djelic, but what came out, I suppose, of the cabinet of ministers, two illogicalities, one language, and one that shows that this law has not thought about the meaning. Namely, you, in the reasons for passing a law that postpones the application of a law for 19 months, but that is why you want to amend certain provisions in a law that does not apply, you say - we propose these amendments to ensure their compliance with the systemic solutions proposed by the new Code of Criminal Procedure. So today we're adopting changes to ensure compliance with a law that will take effect over 19 months. Absolutely pointless. I know your style of work, Mr. Petrovic, you would never have approved this if you had seen it. Now listen to this sentence, which should be the one who wrote it back somewhere in the second grade of elementary school. "The reasons for passing the law after an emergency procedure -- it is proposed to pass the law by emergency procedure, as they would prevent the adverse consequences of the work of the state authorities." Now I need to talk about this law that people like this propose to me. Let's talk about it with a little bit. You drive the car yourself to the break-in, and then you say - stand up for Serbia, Assembly, help us not to fall into the break-in. It's kind of like the adoption of this law, and it shows the absolute incompetence of the government before you, absolute, but it also speaks of your character when you're building a new government with that government. Are you sure this government can get you to 31? 12. 2008 implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure? You're not and you won't. You yourself have said, Mr. Minister, in your address to the MPs that you are not thinking at all about preparing for the Law to be implemented, but that you will use this time as a brand-new criminal code. You know how much resistance this code has come across with the expert public. The first objection that it was not consulted at all, because one professor decided that he was an alpha and omega and that he would write it himself, without consulting anyone, and then you fell apart to mix the grandmothers and frogs, the Anglo-Saxon and continental rights, to drown our values in the value of what you've been cheating on the orders of the European Union and to come up with solutions that are completely against the legislation of the European Union. On the other hand, you're delaying the application of that code. It was said a few months ago that no one was training a special prosecutorial office for a new role that had been lawfully prepared for him. That aside, I'm interested in something else. You yourself said in 2001, when this code was passed, that's what one of your very good MPs here said, no one could have guessed what crimes were going to be committed since then, so a normal code was written, especially about the length of the detention. Then the MP Krasic showed you when the government was pounding on the forehead, most often under public pressure that follows better when they are being held in custody, so we used to hold night sessions to extend the detention deadlines. It seems to me that this bill was created at a time when you were not sure that a first-degree verdict would be made in the case of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Maybe there was a possibility, I didn't quite study it, to get one of them out of jail for freedom. You told us, of course, what do you want, to get those who have not yet been convicted out of custody? There's no question of what these people who are in custody want. They only want to find themselves free, even those who have committed the most serious crimes. It's a human, normal desire for every man to be free. I'm interested in how can you accept the fact that a trial will take six, seven years? It's not a lawsuit around the border and you'll keep a man in custody all that time. Don't look up to The Hague tribunal. He has one point in which he says he does not compensate for the damage, so that Vojislav Seselj, when declared innocent and released, will not have the right to any material or any other kind of compensation. That's how the Hague tribunal works. But I warn you of the Sabre cases in which you have treated Serbian citizens so rudely under the firm that all criminals, and now the state pays great compensation to those who are incarcerated without any grounds and are held in custody without any grounds. Someone here mentioned a term to even the executioner and the victim. The executioner is a executioner because it's his profession. He's not a murderer, he's a state executioner of the death penalty, and we here need to talk about murderers who are not authorized by the law. What are we gonna do now? Let's just say we don't want to pass this law on to you? What's it worth when it can't be applied? Let's say we vote for that law, then the radicals say -- we see the government's incompetent, we give it a new mandate in which that government will try to fix itself. Since young people have entered this government, I know that their primary interest will be to rule for four years. Immaturity and seriousness to realize when they've fed up with the people, but the desire to be in power for four years. It is for you to expect that in those four years you may remove some things, that you may make amends. Don't call on me for enthusiasm, if someone had it in 2001, it was you who are now in some other configuration of power, and when we add up the results of everything you've done we wouldn't find enough work for one serious government. You forgot that the session's imperative was a report on Kosovo and Metohija, you forget that the state's imperative is the constitutional application itself, the adoption of a new budget. You've just taken an oath, you've forgotten all the imperatives. Now you begin to rule. You're in the machine. It is mostly a civil machine, but very well equipped in the last few years by the staff of Vojislav Kostunica, who has provided for himself and by law the possibility that all of us, who can win the elections, wait with your staff, who cannot be fired from the service. You will now enter the machine, Mr Petrovic, into a machine of state ministries that will tell you what your priorities are. You started off with a very bad law, a law that you admit your predecessor didn't do the job he was prescribed by the Ministry Act and the Government Act. All I expect from you, Mr. Petrovic, which I have warned all the Ministers of Justice so far, is that you are engaged in courts as objects and as places where trials are held, to organize them, to equip them, to provide them with a budget that they themselves will have to pay for. Not as one of your MPs has said, we will provide them with good wages. No, they'll get themselves good wages. You don't have, of course, the Supreme Court, you don't have a cassation court, the question is who would now be in possession of that budget, that may be your excuse, but I'm telling you, if you stick to it, Mr. Petrovic, you'll be a good minister. If you equip the courts, if you make sure the judges work and judge by law, you'll be a good minister. If you start praising judges or making them feel bad about some of the verdicts they've made, you'll be a very bad minister. You've seen, very bad ministers don't stay at the minister's office for a long time and no one counts with them anymore. The right times are when the minister bears the fate of his party, moves into opposition, but if his party wins again, the people know that he will be a minister again. When will the people now say that Batic should be the minister of justice again? Never. Stojkovic. Never. I sincerely wish for you not to experience their fate. So you don't experience it, listen to me, stay out of the work of the courts, just let them work. When party activists and street protesters, when everyone calls you and says, "Come out Petrovic and say here you needed a death sentence, you tell them, I'm sorry, it's not my job, we've got judges, we've got courts. If you do that, it will be your greatest success. We're not going to help you work well, we're looking forward to new choices, and we're not going to help you, and we're looking forward to what I thought about you and what I want from your heart again. So, new elections, that Serbia will decide or rule the SRS, which will first be, excuse me, don't be angry, or the DS will rule, which by the nature of democracy will probably be after our one, most of all after two of our mandates. If you need advice before the session, go ahead, come along, you've seen, there are some great lawyers here, we'd be happy to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1649	Thank you very much. Alexander Vukitch, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2001, when the reform of criminal law began, despite all the warnings from the representatives of the SRS that it takes codification of criminal law to be carried out in our country, in addition to assembling the largest part of the representatives of the then assembly majority, and I suppose the present, we have, in addition to formally and partially, committed codification, so, on two occasions, in 2001 and 2006, made dozens of crimes that are in the so-called ". You can find, by the side of the legislation, which you cannot find in the criminal law, by who knows all the laws, which mainly serve the authorities for different types of abuse or for action and action in certain moments against certain social groups or individuals. Of course, the laws are general acts, they should never be passed like that, but the power in Serbia has, at all costs, been trying to make it known to everyone that power, not law, is therefore, that the power of their forces is more incomparably important than the power of their laws or our laws. What is a particularly painful and difficult issue, and what is a problem for both human rights and freedoms in every country, one of the most important, which is even being stopped by almost all countries of the world, and written and unwritten, therefore, by the highest legal acts, is the question of determining and the duration of detention. There's always going to the lowest possible norm. There are no widely interpreted norms. These are norms that must be clear, precise and give the widest rights to the accused or convicted in the first degree. So, those in custody, either after the prosecution, or after the first-degree sentence, must know that the measure of detention is, therefore, not punishment, as some have said, detention is a measure, must be limited. In many countries, therefore, in parallel legislation, we have a limit of exactly the number of years. Some countries do not specify a precise number of years, but talk about a reasonable period. It is quite clear, even some judges of the infamous UN tribunal have given themselves the right to say that the reasonable term is six months. Today, after a period of two or four years, depending on whether the detention goes after the indictment or after the first-degree sentence, we no longer have any deadline. Full arbitration in what he will make and what decision he will make greater. There has never been such a thing in the Serbian legal system. Is it the one who "forgotten" the appeals, the cassation courts in 2001, what we need to enter in 2006 or the one that didn't implement it in 2006? I am not prepared to talk to the end and so badly about what Stojkovic was doing, because for some things he had much more understanding than DS representatives, even though he did not open the door to abuses and machinations in the judiciary in the widest way, as they had done before. What's most important is that you know that what we're doing tonight, what we bring, is matter that belongs to the domain of human rights and freedom, in another generation of human rights and freedoms. So, one of the most significant human rights and freedoms, and I'm quite certain, I'm quite confident, regardless of what someone would say is just technical norms, that we leave one big and legal void, but also a big problem at the same time for those who need to enforce the law, but also for those over whom the law applies. I just want to remind you of one fact. Mr. Omerovic, I know you have better things to do, but I'd like to ask you for some attention. When the chairman won't do his job, I, Mr. Micunovic, don't worry, it's not terribly difficult. So, we need to see how and in what way in our country we have to guarantee people the limitations of detention, these measures, because it's impossible for you to comply with the political opportunity, with what you need at one point, at one point because of the Ibar highway, at one point you need it because of those you accused of killing Zoran Djindjic, and then it was a drama whether it will arrive or not, the next day it will be because I don't know what it will be because someone's been putting posters on which it says "Bulevar Ratko Mladic", so who knows what you're all prepared for, but it can't last forever. People, almost five years! Imagine what it would be like to tell one of you to spend one day in the Padinska Skela? Drama, half the globe you'd turn because I don't know how you'd get used to it, if you moved from comfortable chairs one day to stay in custody, that's because some government decided so. Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, even though he went to The Hague himself, for five years almost there, without even starting his procedure. Are you saying you look up to them? Are you saying that this is the future in Serbia? To tell us, "Yes, we're going to have five years in custody here because you don't like Boris Tadic or Vojislav Kostunica," so he decided to put someone behind bars, as you are now putting these kids, who put a piece of cardboard next to the inscription that says "Bulevar ANOJ." Yeah, kids are 23 and young people. It is the future of Serbia, not you who arrest, not you who harass them. That is the fundamental difference between us and you. What? Arrest. I didn't say and I didn't address ad personam, arrest your authority, arrest your government, completely against the law, completely against the law, and, worst of all, it's absolutely immoral. Now I'm going to prove to you why. Today, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, in what some falsely called the Presevo Valley, since such a geographical concept in Serbia did not exist, and especially not as politically as the DOS's did, it is very interesting to say, not some kind of parastos or markings, but a whole of the World War II about the murder of terrorists and criminals they called Captain Leshi in 2001, when your authority, probably protecting territorial integrity, in the fight to preserve the order of the constitutional in Serbia, liquidated it. They today mark it, with Albanian flags, with an Albanian anthem, along with their national features and no response from the Serbian state. None of them have been detained for information talks and convicted in a misdemeanor procedure. That's why you condemn the Serbian children here, who think you're wrong to change the name of one street, and they'd give that street a different name than you think. It's a crime. That's the kind of Serbia you're leading today, that's how you run it. Because you think it's justice, because you think you're going to stick to those who come every day to read you lessons. Van der Linden tells you in every town - I am for independent Kosovo, you must accept independent Kosovo. You deliberately cut it out of all media brass news, television, etc. It is announced - we want a European solution, in a European way, which we want by European methods, for European Serbia and for European Kosovo and for Metohija. I admit, here, I didn't have any particular intelligence, I didn't understand that. Does this mean that Kosovo is in Serbia or does this mean that Kosovo and Metohija are not in Serbia? I'm interested in that. Since I'm not at the level of your contemplative abilities, I accept that you explain it to me, does that mean it's in Serbia or not in Serbia? That's all I care about. That's all the citizens of Serbia care about. And what a European solution it is, we have seen. The European solution for Kosovo and Metohija is an independent Kosovo. That is why we are against the European solution and for a solution in accordance with international public law. That's how you'd all have to be, because that's what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, because it's the highest legal act of this country, but that's not what you're interested in. You don't care, the president of the National Assembly says -- we won't assume Kosovo and the Metohija of Serbia's European future, and he doesn't care. He can say that, but it's very important whether he got 300, 200 or not, or I don't know how many messages. That's what you do, and that's why our country is so unserious. You think for all the sake of what you're about to say, we had a problem with the bad guys, with, I don't know, the Legion, with this or that. I don't trust you personally anymore, but absolutely nothing. When I saw Nata Mesarovic say, I received a verdict, instead of a verdict, when I saw that her argument was that Zoran Djindjic gave back hope to Serbia. It's not a legal argument, it's not a fact, it's her cholastic, bad and incorrect logical conclusion. Total nonsense. It has nothing to do with an object that runs, but absolutely nothing. Now like that, she's the bravest, smartest woman, let's build her a monument somewhere. No, it's not. It's a country that abuses the law, it's a woman who didn't make it, she got a verdict, as she says. That's something I think the citizens of Serbia should and must know. Secondly, they don't apply, people, laws only for one, two or five, or only for radicals, or only for Democrats. The laws must apply to everything. All citizens must be equal before the law. Here, apparently, they're not equal under the law. Some of them can come into the courtroom and threaten people, threaten families, even lynch someone, it's all allowed, it's all allowed because you're the ones who run the lynch. Don't let God fight you, just say, hey, okay, I'll defend myself, I won't run, I won't stay away, I'll just defend myself. Then some cured or untreated junkie is going to show up somewhere to say, hey, now he's got some other profession, for God's sake, these guys want to fight, did you see, did you see, these guys want to get in the way or I don't know what. No, we're just not gonna let you harass us. We will not allow you to humiliate us, we will not allow you to kill and destroy Serbia without anyone telling you stop, that no one will tell you that we want to stand up to you in this killing and destruction of Serbia, we want to stand up to you and we will never give it up. That's what you need to know. As with this, I see it's funny to everyone, everyone just waiting for the end of the debate and leaving, to finish the job, they don't care about everything. Sure, it's no big deal. Detention, as long as you want. We're arresting whoever we want, what the hell are you doing? Journalists today ask what drama is, what's the problem. Nothing, when you don't see, when some of you don't see or won't see, then nothing. I'm sorry we said it wasn't right for you to arrest someone for a piece of cardboard and for a different opinion, of course. This piece of cardboard is figuratively used because it is a matter of freedom of conscience and opinions that you do not allow. Serbian citizens need to know one thing. Since 2000, we have a party-produced judiciary. I remind you that, in time, the DS City Committee directly brought members of the City Board of DS to the post of members of the Supreme Court of Serbia. That they were brought in for the presidents of district courts, that today only party listeners of DS and their coalition partners DSS and G17 can be in prosecutors, both in courts, and in all other places. You see, we have some kind of portfolio today that I don't know what they're playing, from not knowing Zoric, Vekaric, to any. Which is an explanation for having a special prosecutor who is pressing charges, so it is a criminal case against Slobodan Milosevic, who has been dead for a year. This, there are the following options, either it's not normal, or it doesn't know anything, or it's, as Mr Nikolic has said in his time, if I'm not wrong, rather for the asylum than for the courtroom, or for the third argument that someone here is very corrupt, so he wants to make all of us crazy people and put us all in a nuthouse and say - well, great, now I'm going to take the case against dead Slobodan Milosevic. Yeah, he might have studied it. The fact that you brought into Serbia's justice system, with what some say about justice... In the last two days, we've been hearing nonsense at B 92, RTS and Pink, it's an epic of nonsense we've heard about the trial, where people don't know that the prosecutor's office has nothing to do with the judicial function, where they don't know what has to be independent, and what alone, where they don't have elementary knowledge, but elementically from primary school, not to say that they passed the trolleybus next to the Law-Byrotech High School in Belgrade to have that kind of knowledge. No, they appear as experts to beat nonsense on all these TVs. I hear, by the way, that you will now run for another great Bia expert, that Zoran Dragisic, the treasure of us, the mother born, that NATO analyst, is about to destroy a little more Serbia. I apologize for having information from the President of the Republic's office, since he intended to run for office, but what you're going to do is anything in this country, anything that's worse, and everything that's against Serbia, you've decided to frame us. You see exactly who B 92's playing, he's going to be some occupation deputy. I'm just waiting for what to become of you, Slavisa Orlovic, and now he's become some kind of analyst, which will be the other one, what's his name, Radic, military, what's going to be some third, because there's no one left by Serbs or other citizens of Serbia to choose any nationality. No, but there's someone here who would choose Gjerj Sereshi, who falsely presents himself as Soros, or others who, in his interest, work for his account. So the question is here - do we have a state or not? Except that it is clear and obvious that the human rights Corps is being removed, that the scope of human rights is getting lower and less permitted in our country. I'm afraid we won't be able to do it soon, otherwise, if anyone has any objections, I've given the man a very precise name. So, I haven't made any mistakes for a single letter, and I'd ask that you don't object to me, Mr. Chairman. For us, the key problem is that we don't have a country today, which is that we have a country based on it -- a European solution for European Serbia, in European Kosovo, in European Mars, in the European Jupiter, in the European Jupiter, I don't know what else, and all of this has come down to us that Europe has taken a picture of us arresting someone who thinks differently. It's time to end it. If you're going to protect the state, Riza Halimi can't have an Albanian flag and an Albanian anthem, and some of its fellows, and that, at the same time, nothing in this country, is very nice to sing the anthem of other countries, and it's singing at large gatherings, with a direct intention to separate some of Serbia's territory, while at the same time arresting some other people who haven't done any of this, on the contrary, who are doing it all out of conviction to do something good for their Serbia, respecting the constitutional order and the laws of this country. The laws must apply equally to everyone, and whatever the law is, it must be respected, "dura lex, sed lex," but each must be equally applied. That's what you have to take care of, so I'm calling you, Mr. Minister, because, to inform the citizens who haven't heard that, the arrest of the people who glued posters to Bulvar AVNOJ continues, the police continued with it. I don't know what's funny about it, and I don't know what makes you happy, it just tells me how insecure you are, and how much you don't even have humanity, because some of these sons might be to you, but anyway, you don't care. I invite you, Mr. Petrovic, to apply the law at all, I did it last night, not from the assembly pay phone, but from the TV show Pink. From what I've seen, it was a very high rating, so the great social danger of action. I call on you to arrest me, otherwise, in all possible legal proceedings and you, and other ministers in the Serbian government, because you do not respect the principle of equality of citizens before the law, and it is important for us that people in Serbia see as soon as possible, in naked sight and form, that Serbia is occupied, that Serbian citizens do not have fundamental human rights and freedoms here, that none of this is guaranteed to them. Well, it won't be the first time for Serbs to fight for their freedom, thank you for that, we're used to it, we've learned and we'll do it with all democratic and allowed means in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1651	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Witch of Radet. Just what member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1652	Article 225. Mr. Dulic, when you spoke to the MPs the other day, when you were not challenged, you told the MPs that, unlike your predecessors, you would allow the MPs to communicate normally with the ministers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense I would like to ask the questions of Minister, Mr. Petrovic to you, and it would be nice for you to listen to me, because I am asking you to answer immediately. So, a team that helps prepare defences for Mr Vojislav Seselj has obtained 34 court-certified statements from people, citizens of Serbia, who were blackmailed, bribed, threatened, etc. to force them to testify against Vojislav Seselj. It was all happening, or it was mostly happening, in the Lord of Jevrem. 11 in Belgrade. I ask you, Minister, for the first answer to the question on which the representatives of The Hague prosecution, or investigators, are located in Belgrade, are on the street. The Lord of No. 11, Jevrem Grujic Street, I apologize, Jevrem Grujic No. Eleven, usually guarded by Serbian police. The second question, Mr. Minister, you may have to consult Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, that Vukkovic, known for arresting pigeon writers if they pass on some messages to Ratko Mladic, to ask him on the basis of which, on the basis of which rules, just don't tell you as an MP last night - based on some member of the law, he is now literally chasing all those people who have made certified statements to the defence team of Vojislav Seselj and daily invite these people to the Special Court of War Crimes. Is he going to chase them here now because they have shown that they are honorable and honest, that Carla del Ponte couldn't buy them, that she was blackmailing them, that they were telling the real truth, based on which Vojislav Seselj and his team applied against Carla del Ponte to The Hague tribunal. So I'm asking you, Mr. Petrovic, to answer those two questions? And I ask you from the minister's place to have a serious conversation with that prosecutor, not of course, because you have no right to do so, but to draw attention to him that he must behave in accordance with the law and warn him, and now I warn him, that the SRS will stop and protect every one of those honorable people who gave us these certified statements and that we will not allow Vuckovic, nor any of you to dommania, to live on these people just because they were honorable and honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1653	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Does the Resort Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1654	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to today's debate on the proposal of two laws that should lead to that, if adopted in this House, we have a sustainable system in one of the vital parts of our public life and our state, it's in criminal justice. What is certainly a matter of full agreement in today's debate is that it is necessary to postpone the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia just over a year ago. In this debate, different views on how to proceed were heard. I totally understand that. There are very different views in the professional public, in the scientific public, basic issues are still open here in parliament today. It will certainly be a topic that we will all have to respond to very soon, because on December 31st 2008, it was given by the Constitutional Law as a moment when all the laws of the Serbian state should be brought into line with the new Constitution. This deadline is therefore also set in the draft law. The second big topic is the length of the detention period. What I'm trying to say is that what I'm saying is that I'm removing all the ambiguities that may have arisen from this debate, that it's not about the length of detention until the time of the investigation, but for a very long time, back in the years, that those who are being held in criminal law practically know, and all those who have dealt with this during their education, the public, of course, that less is coming into contact with it, is clearly determined the duration of the detention and the investigation cannot last for more than six months, until that moment must be brought into effect, otherwise detention by law enforcement is terminated. It is not possible to maintain a state-wide sustainability system unless it corresponds to the opportunities in which a country is located. Today, I didn't want to go into any of the reasons, nor was it the subject of this debate, but the most serious crimes are under way. Crimes have happened that didn't happen in Serbia somewhere in the 20th century anyway. One interior minister was killed before World War I, which was the reason for the introduction of a very dramatic state measure at that time. Unfortunately, in our country, heads were killed and crowned, so it produced consequences, but since the Second World War, there has been no such terrible and terrible crime as the murder of the Prime Minister. Of course, it is then a whole new understanding of the circumstances to which the state must find an answer, because it is not the loss of politicians and it is not the loss of the president of one party, but the president of the executive government, or the first man of the executive authority of a country. Of course, after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, Serbia was in other circumstances. I won't talk about the trial anymore, we've been having this debate about this thing, but it's very important to create such a context that the criminal proceedings can be closed. Of course, it's not just this crime, it's all about organized crime and war crimes. This is why it is very important for the defendants to be available to the judiciary, because there is a real danger that they would benefit from the abolition of detention and that they would disappear, because many of them did not surrender voluntarily but were arrested after a lengthy search. These are the reasons why this point was on the agenda today. My deep belief is that voting these amendments and supplementing the law is in the best public interest. As for the other questions raised here, I'd be happy to answer them. First of all, the war crimes prosecutor is a state official, with very large powers, elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He, like the entire War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, is an institution that corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is no one who in any way violates the regulation without there being a clear procedure so that this breach or possible violation of the rules could be established. Anyone who considers it damaged or who considers that there are grounds for doubt, or reasonable doubt, of course the reasonable suspicion is determined by prosecutors for committing crimes, so he has the opportunity to contact the competent state authorities immediately and will begin appropriate proceedings. I invite you to vote for amendments and additions to these laws. What I can say is that we will do everything in our power, I say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to improve the functioning of the judiciary, creating material preconditions for this and opening up the possibility of constitutional solutions, which have been made, being implemented in life in the shortest possible time. We have before us the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget. It will be our first chance to take a very important step to help, not only Serbia's judiciary, but also to help the state of Serbia, and thus to create an opportunity for citizens' interests to be protected in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-25-0.u1655	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm scheduled to resume the session Monday at 10.00 hours. Good morning, I hope you've had a nice weekend. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. Here you go.
