ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7733	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I apologize for the little delay in the session. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 122 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the MPs participating in the 117th Interparliamentary Union Conference. We move to a joint single search of 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONCERNATION OF THE SERBIA AND RUMUNITY ON THE COUNTRY MEETING OF THE COUNTRY AND RUMUNITY OF THE COUNTRY MEETING OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE STATES INSTRUMENTS BENELUKS Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7734	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, the way the debate on these points of the agenda has been united has even led congregation rapporteurs into a dilemma, and they have called this debate a confusion. It was not confusing, but because of mixing the incompatible points of the agenda it even acted as such. I have defined myself as talking within this item of the agenda about the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, because I believe that the responsibility of the State which is defined by Article 5 of this Law, the limitation periods defined by this Convention and the responsibility in terms of providing evidence for corruption has not been consistently implemented through legal projects so far, and it should be, because that is what the Civil Law Convention obliges. What is written in the reasons for the adoption of the law, which is that we need to adopt this Convention in order to contribute to increasing our country's reputation among the Member States of the Council of Europe, is at least unserious. We will increase our reputation if we do what we owe as a state, which is to literally carry out the rule of law through legal projects. What exactly is corruption? When a citizen cannot get what he normally has a right to, which is to school, to get a job, to get health care, but to pay extra for someone who otherwise has to do the job, which is called corruption. When a citizen wants to get what doesn't belong to him by law, so pay for it, it's corruption. If he gets a degree he doesn't have knowledge of, if he gets a promotion at work he paid for, and he doesn't have the right quality, it's also corruption. There is corruption, and when citizens want to avoid the penalty for breaking the law, they will pay whoever is in charge to enforce it by law. So, in all the phenomena that I've simplified as the simplest example of corruption in my life, the word law, or law enforcement, is mentioned everywhere. Although health is like the right to surgery, for example, or treatment, the thing in which we can't blame someone if they donate to a doctor who did it, because it's our custom, we can't let someone, because surgery or the right to health is stalled, being blackmailed and conditioned to corrupt so that they can preserve their right to life. But can the state have a responsibility under this convention, because they will punish a doctor, a professor, who gives an unauthorized diploma or someone else if they do not leave the evidence required here? There are no imperfect robberies, that's what we'll prove when it comes to corruption in privatisation, but when the corruption of this kind is on stage, I'm not convinced by the international community, nor by the signatories of this convention that they're willing to deal with corruption even when it's obvious. Let's take the most powerful thing in which the supply is something that many of us rightly call sacred. Corruption in the international plan, called the million corruption of Mr Ahtisaari, was discovered by the German intelligence service, for which the evidence was handed over to the authorities in Germany and the chamomile in a drawer, and the one who handed them over, when he realized he would not fight corruption, gave it to reporters and the public entertained a subject called corruption. So, when corruption is revealed and it's called an affair, if the competent authorities don't take action for whoever wants to get what they don't have a right to, the states that are signatories to this convention have to react. What is the view of corruption in our country? In that the state adopts laws that allow corruption. We want to play the country in which everything is arranged and that corruption is an excellent phenomenon, and in fact, since 2001, a set of laws has been passed, in which it has not become, for example, more important privatisation than the rule of law, but has become a motive for making privatisation. The neoliberal, recently deceased economist Milton Friedman, at the end of his scientific century, which was practically applied, said: I admit my biggest mistake, instead of privatisation, privatisation, privatisation, should have been said - the rule of law above privatisation. I think that as a state, we are the best example of showing the viability of corruption in privatisation for at least two reasons. Twenty-six percent of the unemployed in this country, so hundreds and thousands of families with nothing to live on, is the result of privatisation, and I think that's why it defined me to look back at it in a crowd of other things. The concept was designed to enable the richest, meaning those who were then with the current regime and those who had skillfully reconstructed themselves on October 5th, to have access to social wealth, not to comply with standards, not to have the law, nor to protect health and human beings, that they could carry out unlimited corruption and uninterrupted money laundering. The fact that there is a law that prohibits money laundering and that there is a committee dealing with the prevention of conflicts of interest, those are dead letters on paper. The law and subsequent instructions that the Agency has prepared in due time... She hasn't been ready to determine at any time, so since 2001, whoever has the right to participate in the privatisation. That's what we're talking about at the end of the privatisation process. Procedures are designed for physical faces. You remember how Mr. Miodrag Kostic's mom bought huge land areas, huge fields in Vojvodina, and that's just one example. Because the participation of a natural person in privatisation was much more favourable in terms of credit for six years, so I don't live and real money to buy, and for intermediaries, lawyers and others who have served to hide real owners and buyers. This was particularly interesting and desirable when the finances of many parties were hidden then in power. It is very interesting that the Privatisation Agency, which was established by the budget money, and later partly funded from the budget and which works as a public institution, was bound by the law on money laundering in 2001, and then later the obligation for the Agency was deleted. That's not what the Serbian Radical Party did. Authorities have consciously avoided providing public information on who buys businesses in Serbia. Any conversation on the illegality of privatisation has been declared hostile to private property, according to transition and further progress of society. Every story about the origin of the capital that privatises the property of Serbia, every story about the valuation of the value of the capital... To remind the citizens, you were lowering the value of the company so they could sell at book value, so if no one shows up on the first call and below. You've been applying a bankruptcy law where it's enough to make someone likely, see how accurate it is, that someone won't be able to pay the invoice of 20,000 marks later on. The existence of discretionary rights of the National Bank to close banks, to give the right to open an insurance company is an open call for corruption. Where someone's will, which is called, gives me money to work in your interest, depends on the decision on the name of the state, is actually the opening of the door to corruption. The adoption of this convention does not require Serbia to deal with the greatest evil, called corruption. When you promote greed as a top quality in society, you are not surprised that corruption knocks on all your doors and springs from every law. The moment money isn't the only motive for politics, I think it'll be a different solution. Finally, let me add that the agency, an NGO involved in studying a phenomenon called corruption, has a full mouthful of stories about the Law on the financing of political parties that allows corruption at the highest level. In the name of the SRS, I say - in the functioning, conduct, defence of the law and attack on bad solutions in certain laws, let one come forward who recognizes any powermaker who decides today about the power of Serbia, which is not, in fact, the very people who voted for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7735	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want to be told by the president, or by representatives of the parliamentary groups or by someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on these points of the agenda. Before I give my word to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today we had a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups and that it was agreed on next. Since at least 100 MPs have appeared Monday to this day, although Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic warns me that there has been much more, as many as 150 MPs have reported that he is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we wanted to inform you today that we will strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. We accept the mistake that the session may not be conducted properly and that you have rightly indicated a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We want to strictly respect this Rules of Procedure, so we will hold a session in the manner that the Rules of Procedure has set out and Article 100 will be respected in each segment. So you will have the right to report for breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you will have to read the article you consider to have been broken. After that, you'll get three minutes to say why you think that member's been broken. After that, a sound signal will warn you that three minutes have expired and then the pay phone will be turned off. This is because you have three minutes to explain to the Rules of Procedure, and it will apply to all MPs, it is nothing personal, and don't be angry, it is such a matter of time. As regards asking parliamentary questions, this Rules of Procedure, Rule 199, has been regulated to ask parliamentary questions after the agenda has been exhausted, i.e. after the debate on all points of the agenda has been concluded. If the parliamentary groups wish to organise special sessions where MPs would ask MPs questions to ministers, I am prepared to organise such a session as soon as possible, to ask questions to ministers and to give you direct answers, but to keep the plenary debate on the agenda points one of its course so that the scenes that took place in the past sessions do not happen, so that this assembly, the debate in this assembly, does not look like anything. I am doing this with the belief that it is really necessary to fight for the full dignity of this assembly and I am sure that all of you MPs in this will support me. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, then MP Dejan Rajcic and then MP Petar Jojic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so this doesn't look like some kind of threat I've been involved in, Mr. Dulic, you shouldn't have told us any of this, it's all in the Rules of Procedure, and it's a perfectly normal situation. As far as the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary groups are concerned, as long as there is a possibility that the Rules of Procedure can be respected, we will fully respect it. It's just three minutes enough for our MPs to point out what's holding them back. One other thing is the government and its ministers' absolute unconstitutional situation in the country being transferred to the National Assembly, the absolute disrespect of the National Assembly by the government and its ministers, the non-compliance with the constitutional law which could only be the basis for calling the agenda, the media war against the MPs, the media war that the director of the public service is waging against, according to LDP, works by the Serbian Radical Party and works of the Socialist Party of Serbia. The state of the country is extremely bad. The ruling coalition is being agreed after two or three months, and it remains for the Assembly a day or two to implement it, because, Ministers, Prime Minister and Prime Minister have agreed on what you MPs are now discussing. Serbia's president announces the election. You know, in his hands and in your hands are your choices, so tell us if they're gonna be there or not, so we know if this is a pre-election campaign right now. If it is a pre-election campaign, I don't care if Minister Cvetkovic will explain his convention with India. I don't care. The campaign is different. When elections are debated, the Assembly stops working. The media are completely in your hands, the power is in your hands. So don't insist that only the Serbian Parliament works by law and by the Rules of Procedure. Let's all do the law and the Rules of Procedure, and we'll do the same. Here, as a contribution, Serbian Radical Party MPs will strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to warn them at all that time is up. From now on, Serbian Radical Party MPs will respect it, so within the three minutes, they will end their discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7737	Thank you. Very correct of you, Mr. Nikolic. On the occasion of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodana Mladenovic, then MP Petar Jojic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7738	I've reported a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 225(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7739	I'm sorry, here's the Rules of Procedure, so you'll read that article, since that's how it's defined. You'll get your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7740	Since it's a new Rules of Procedure, it hasn't been worked out yet. Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "And, Article 226: "The MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly... ".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7741	There's no need to read the whole article, but it has to be pointed out which member we're calling to know about the record. Here, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7742	Mr. President, the esteemed fellow Members of the People, the honourable ministers, I expected that Mr. Ljajic might be, too, but he will get the information and I hope that what I say today will come to him. I told you what member I'm calling in, and that's why I'm answering from this pay phone. I'm asking for a notice and an explanation from the Secretary-General. In fact, yesterday she answered my colleague Dr Kovacevic's words, and at the session, she presented an astounding fact that a young woman had just been born out of work. It seems an amazing fact that you've heard everything here in this congregation and that you've gone over it, as if it doesn't touch anyone, as if it doesn't interest anyone. I know that many important topics are being discussed here, but I want you to know that this topic is one of the most important topics in our lives. My profession does not allow me to remain cold-blooded, and this time I pray to all my colleagues, regardless of my political belongings, I pray to colleagues who are mothers and those who are just going to be mothers to support me, as all the other colleagues behind this phone booth have supported us. I also ask that on the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, this should be placed on the agenda and discussed on an urgent basis. In fact, if you forgot, yesterday my colleague Dr Kovacevic presented information that a young woman named Snezana Bankovic was born on 26 September 2007, and imagine, she was out of work just because she was born. Only for that, and that doesn't concern you. Ten councillors in the Knić Municipality, among whom no woman, that is very important to me, it encourages me to go out for this pay phone, no woman supported this... So, ten council members of the Knic Municipality's Assembly signed for her shift. Just because I'm a gynecologist by profession, I'm happy that this young woman doesn't belong to a group of 10% of married couples who treat sterility and who will never be able to achieve offspring. That doesn't concern you. Ten percent of married couples will not be able to have offspring. I'm glad this woman isn't in a group of mothers they gave birth to, God forbid, a sick or incompetent child. You can't understand what it means to have a healthy child, and for this country, not just for the family, but for this country. Since I'm a gynecologist, I know my problems best... to bring out a healthy and capable child for life... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7743	Thank you, Doctor, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry we have to start with you. This is an important topic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on state television in the morning diary...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7745	Mr. Jojic, I apologize, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7746	Article 226(1) and Article 225(1) Rules of Procedure. It is that at eight o'clock this morning, state television transmitted information that in the area where I come from as a MP, it was discovered in six cases that a false tetanus vaccine was given and that it was discovered that in another city in Serbia, I cannot tell which, there were 16 cases of false vaccines instead of tetanus vaccines and that it was water. I ask the question and ask the Minister of the Interior if the owners of the companies who produced these fake and falsified preparations have been arrested, i.e. vaccines to treat our citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, it's inadmissible that these things happen. This is a silent killer, because a citizen who goes to receive the vaccine, believing that he received the vaccine and that it is protected, can later get hurt and can also occur in a fatal case. Who's responsible for this? I ask the question of the Minister of the Interior -- were the companies that produced these products discovered, were the owners deprived of liberty and were they in custody, did the police have any obstacles to that? What did the health minister do in that direction? When it comes to health, I ask why the Panchev Health Center, which is gravitated by 36,000 inhabitants in eight municipalities, seems inappropriate for one health institution, without any equipment and is not at the level that the citizens of South Banat deserve? When you go to the hospital, to that hospital center, except for the iron bed and the First World War military blanket, you have to take everything else to the hospital. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the matter is very serious. What are the mobsters and what thieves produced instead of the vaccine water? Serbian citizens no longer have confidence in such health institutions, and they are threatening the threat and we do not know if there were any fatal consequences. We ask that the public that these companies are, and these are three companies, as was said yesterday, be informed, but the owners and names of the company are hidden. Therefore, I ask the answer to the question asked by both the interior minister and the health minister to inform the public who is dealing with these affairs and this crime. When it comes to health care, let me point out, if you'll allow me, another two or three sentences, what's going on in the last two or three years, that citizens are wasting more time on administering these...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7747	Thank you. As far as parliamentary issues are concerned, parliamentary questions are asked, as a rule, after the National Assembly has completed its work on all points of the agenda. However, given that in this agenda we did not provide for asking parliamentary questions as a last resort, I ask you to ask parliamentary questions for three minutes, when you call on Article 226, and at each of the next sessions we will leave the possibility of asking parliamentary questions as a separate item of the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Nikola Zutic, and then the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7748	Article 226(1). A month ago, I asked the government what it means to take against anti-Serbian acts of open Separatism of the duchess. The open breaking of Serbia through the emphasis on the statehood of Vojvodina's government is not much of an interest. Any serious state would certainly take measures to protect the state, through arrest, processing and banning the work of anti-state separatist elements. In this question, I pointed out the successes of the duchy separatists: first of all, a unique information space of the Republic of Serbia has been broken; the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts has been acting uninterrupted; some passports are being pointed out; the duchy flags are winding up. The President of Vojvodina's Parliament, Kostres, openly advocates the state of Vojvodina, demanding nothing less than that the state of Vojvodina should receive executive, judicial and legislative authority to create a new Pannonian state. However, he naively claims that this is just about some kind of benign autonomy, which has no statehood whatsoever. If three key authorities are wanted for an autonomous region, what can it be called, rather than the creation of a new state? The latest New Sad events confirm my concern that the state is either a favor or passive towards the Separatist carriers in Novi Sad and Belgrade. If the gathering of members of the "Stroy" is forbidden, it should be prohibited to gather many more dangerous duke separatists. The police department made a lot of mistakes because there could have been fatal consequences. All we can think of is the rally and countermitting of the 1990s when, unfortunately, there were victims of such myths. It should be noted that the "Stroj" is only a polygon, a means of duke separatists, through which they seek to compromise the idea of Serbian unity, the idea of a unitary Serbian state. In the future, any pledge to establish Serbia's full territorial unity will be declared Nazism and fascism. The Power Project and the League project came from the same anti-Serbian workshop, as our people would say, it struck evil up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7749	I thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic appeared, and then the People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7750	I'm reporting on the basis of Article 31. Rules of Procedure item 1. It is my duty, Mr. Dulic, to assist you in your work as vice president. Of course, I am saying this because of the obvious uninformedness of you as president of the Assembly about what was going on and why the session took such a turn, as you say - chaos, although no chaos was happening in the Serbian Parliament. This is all because you called for a session, which was unconstitutionally called and that the people you authorised to lead it, including Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because he flew into critical situations, were unable to hold a session of the National Assembly. I called to help a colleague from New Serbia and the whole New Serbia to solve the problem. I know the case of Snezana Bankovic, it happens in Šumadia. The Serbian Radical Party is an opposition in the municipality of Knic, and the chairman of our committee, Mrs Ljiljana Žiropja and the other committees, did not want to participate in the shaming of members of your party, Mrs Bankovic. For us, the basis for the shift, and for it, is both the president of the municipality and everyone from New Serbia who is harassing the municipality of Knic, the public and the riot in the municipality caused by bad government. The fact that the committees of the Democratic Party, you and Mrs Kovacevic did not identify them, put their signatures on Mrs Bankovic's shift, because she gave birth and brought a live and healthy child to the world, is probably – if not, then you have nothing to talk about, neither you as a doctor nor your colleague, then it is a hypocrisis in you – the reason to leave the coalition with the Democratic Party. They're making one woman, a member of your party, that's what happens to our public, the Committee on Gender Equality reacted, all the media reacted. Here you go, ma'am, at Velje Ilic's and say, "We won't be with those yellow mobsters anymore." They're making fun of a woman who's a mother who wanted to do her job. Why are you complaining to me? Why are you complaining to anyone else? Welcome to Boris Tadic across the street. Aleksandra Ljubojevic, the wife of our late fellow MP Dragan Ljubojevic, was fired from work after a five-octobaric coup because she was in a different condition. What are you talking about? We tried to save that woman, and all the bells were talking about it. She was pregnant then and fired from the ministry where she worked. Therefore, you are now in power. We tried to protect the integrity of Aleksandra Ljubojevic and her rights as an opposition party, there were only 23 of us then, and you 176 participated in both New Serbia and the entire DOS. Please tell these "yellows" that you will no longer be with them in the coalition, not to spray your ashes by allegedly protecting Bankovićka's rights without being with them for kidnapping and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7751	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sulejman Spaho and then MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7752	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. People's MPs, you know well that tomorrow is a great Muslim holiday and I, as a Muslim, would like to welcome that holiday in peace and prosperity. But what kind of situation is happening right now in Raska i.e. In Pazar, I don't think I'll be waiting for my holiday the way I've been waiting for him these years. It is all because of those who are currently in power in Sandzak, i.e. Ljajic and Sulejman, two parties who have tried in every way to win as many voters as possible, but through faith, which is inappropriate to anyone. Two currents appeared: one hard, which is directly linked to Sarajevo and one current that works here in Serbia, which propagates what Islam should be, human, good to all, whatever religion and nationality they were. As a Serb, a Muslim, I feel affected by all this happening. I ask Mr. Jocic, Minister of Police, to explain to me and to tell us in the shortest time, during the day, because tomorrow something is happening in Novi Pazar, and it threatens all those who are on the other side, who have a different opinion about the Islamic community, to protect those who are on the line of respect for all the citizens of this Serbia. I also congratulate Ramadan Bajram on my behalf and on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7753	Congratulations are joined by all MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic and then MP Vjerica Radet reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7754	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 242 paragraph 1. I'd like to inform you, Mr. President, that in your absence...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7755	Mr. Todorovic, I'm sorry, that member doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7756	It doesn't exist? Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7757	I see you control me. I'm sure you know that this member doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7758	Some things are wrong in this assembly, there are privileged MPs and those who are not privileged, if it was possible for this speaker to come out and say that he appears under Article 242 and gets his word. Maybe it's some kind of code that means that the chairman, at that time in your place, might know, because that MP is fond of him, and he knows what he's going to say, so he's probably saying everything he can't say, and he's sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7759	Mr. Todorovic, I'm sure it was a mistake. I apologize to all the MPs for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7760	I don't doubt your sound resonation, Mr. President, but believe me, it isn't, because I know that the MP who issued the undisputed facts about Mladjan Dinkic and his criminal activity since October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7761	Mr. Todorovic, may I ask you now to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure, so that you may proceed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7762	All right, I'm calling for article 100. That's attitude 3, he says -- the president of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation afterwards. It was precisely because of that excess that happened, or the case, that the MP called for Article 242, that he stated what he had said, and that the chairman in your place at that time had not done what he was supposed to do, despite the warning that there was no such article. I'm telling you all this because of your exposure before we started reporting to the Rules of Procedure. In a way, you blamed the MPs for the events of the previous days, that the sessions would take an unnecessarily long, to waste a lot of time and so on. I mean, here, from this case, you could see that it wasn't the MPs who were responsible. There are many things that should be done in this congregation and that meetings of the Assembly take place in a way that would allow all MPs, all MP groups, to participate in the work of the Assembly equally. Since you were not here, Mr. President, I must inform you that in the Belgrade City Assembly, a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, that the parliamentary majority has seduced terror and that it has not allowed all the council members in the Belgrade City Assembly to propose their candidate for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. We warned you, it was Tuesday, you weren't there. Probably doesn't answer to the ones we've been sending a warning. They believe that this is how the Serbian Parliament is abused, that is, this speaker. We don't think so. We think it's our primary task to protect the law, to point out all the problems when this law is being broken and the things that lead Serbia to some ways that are not good. Since you're back, I'm warning you now, I think the stenogram from that session in the City Hall will be completed today, so you'll have the opportunity to see for yourself what we've brought out. I hope that in accordance with the law – since there is no valid evidence of the reasons put forward by representatives of the coalition in power in Belgrade, concerning the election of the president, the rotation of the president of the Assembly and his vice-president, and since you received yesterday's notice that he had suspended the term of office of the late magistrate Nenadu Bogdanovic, that another MP from the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic -- was elected to call for mayor of Belgrade, because it is inappropriate, gentlemen, to v.d. He stays in that place, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7763	Thank you. Let me give you, in accordance with Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure, an explanation or an apology for the fact that a member of the Rules of Procedure heard the chair. I got an explanation that there was a lot of noise in the O.R. at that point, and there was no good hearing about who was a member of the Rules of Procedure. I promise you it won't happen again. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. (Dragan Todorovic, from place: I am not satisfied. Now, by Article 100, I ask you--are you satisfied with the answer? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I did not. I thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7764	Mr. Dulic, I don't know from which member to begin the quote and how you, respecting article 100, will follow what I intend to say. First I have to tell you that you violated Article 104, and now you did it a minute ago. Now I have to find Article 104 and read to you, "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "You are a People's MP and must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You had to let Mr. Dragan Todorovic, or invite him to come from this place for a stenogram, for the sake of the public, for the sake of all MPs... Well, ask MPs in the last rows if they heard what communication was like between you and Mr. Dragan Todorovic, no one heard. So there's no such communication in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic. When the MP says he's not happy, that the sign from the bench, from where he's not satisfied, you have to invite him from the pay phone to explain why he's not satisfied. If you had allowed it to happen to Mr. Todorovic, he would have told you that you received misinformation and that there was such silence in the hall at the moment the MP spoke under that non-existent member that it was astounding. So there was no noise at all. You're misinformed and that's the problem now. Next, again, I quote Article 225(1): "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. "Then I quote Article 226: "The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of all officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs in order to fulfil the functions of the MP. "You see how you, Mr. Dulic, extend the work of the Rules of Procedure, because you force us to quote something that every MP has ahead of him. It's quite enough to list a member of the Rules of Procedure, but well, we respect what you asked of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7765	Mrs. Radeta, just one second, you'll have three minutes. So no other MP had the obligation to read the whole article and I also said that there was no need for it, it is only important to make clear which member is called upon when the Rules of Procedure is advertised. That was true of you, too. Thank you for reading those articles, but there will be no need for that in the future. As for what you insisted on, and so far it has been customary for the MP to remain on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly has decided on the matter. So it has not been the custom for the MP to go out for a pay phone again to say that he is satisfied with the answer or not, so do not insist on it, it does not stand in this Rules of Procedure. Do you advertise any other members of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7766	So it's not true what you said. I never let myself tell you from the bench whether I was satisfied or not, every time I insisted on getting out. Were you sitting there or any of the vice presidents, every time I went out and said I wasn't happy about, so the MPs in the voting day knew that they had decided which button they were going to press. Secondly, we'll take a stenogram or take a stenogram ourselves, when you started today's session, you said you'd strictly respect article 100 and ask every MP to read the article he's calling for. You made that clear. Regarding Articles 225 and 226, you tried to turn it into a parliamentary matter. Those aren't parliamentary questions. There is also that, Mr. Dulic, but what happened, this crime in the Belgrade City Assembly, so the country's unconstitutional state, thanks to Kostunica and Tadic, and yesterday a ban on 8000 workers from the Serbian Parliament, are not parliamentary issues and cannot wait for an answer to the parliamentary question. Don't accidentally play to erase this from this new Rules of Procedure. We have to react in a moment. Article 199: "Employment issues are asked, as a rule, after the National Assembly has completed its work on all points of the agenda of the National Assembly. In addition, without searching, it can set a second time for asking parliamentary questions. "So, as a rule, since the National Assembly ends work on all points of the agenda. A question for you, Mr. Dulic, since you've been President of the National Assembly, how many times have we had on the agenda, at the end of all points, a point - a parliamentary question? I claim, never once.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7767	You're right, and we'll fix that at the next session. I hope then that we will respect the fact that we have a agenda point - parliamentary issues and that parliamentary questions will be asked when this point is on the agenda. Also, parliamentary groups have the right to ask the speaker of the assembly to schedule a special session with parliamentary issues, to which the ministers would call. I call on you to exercise this right and jointly organise sessions that will be directly transmitted, where you will have the opportunity to ask direct parliamentary questions to ministers. Are you satisfied with the answer? No, I don't. ) In the day of voting, we will declare the violation of these points of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic and then MP Misa Petronijevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7768	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr President, Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP." I'm reporting for what Mrs. Slobodanka Mladenov said. We LDP MPs really believe that the event that took place in Kniæ is scandalous. I have to inform you that we are on the Committee on Gender Equality, which I am not a member of, but because of the events that took place last week, and as far as you remember, that scandalous edition of the 48-hour wedding show, we also talked about this problem. At the Committee meeting last Thursday, a week ago, it was agreed to send a letter to the minister asking him to respond and to sanction such behaviour and to protect our colleague's rights. So you're wrong, you should have informed yourself before you went out to talk. What happened then, which is very important, is that you and your colleagues from New Serbia and the DSS left the Committee session, with an explanation that you do not want to attend because you changed your mind the day before, which is to condemn Mr Tijanic's behaviour. The reason you don't know this is exactly that. What is very important, and what I would like to point out to this opportunity, is that when you are already talking about motherhood so shockingly, you today, and your colleague yesterday, you should know that in Serbia, the position of wife and mother is very bad right now, in the sense that a woman who dares to give birth, who decides to make such a brave move in this country, when she maintains pregnancy only receives 65% of the salary. Pregnancy medications are on a positive list of medicines, but unfortunately they are not sold. You're an expert, and you know that doctors recommend buying some drugs, for which later women can't refund costs for two years. So when you talk about the position of a woman in Serbia, as someone who knows it, you should get a little more serious and deeper into it. As for what you just said, and the reaction is the Committee on Gender Equality, you should know that... After all, the minister, as far as I know, is the man with whom you rule in the coalition, so you could also react. This is how you reacted very quickly and unprofessionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7769	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Dr Miš Petronijevic, appeared, and then the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one brief comment before I ask a question, and I call on Article 226, not to waste my time quoting. I think the reason for these events in the congregation in the last few days is because the Assembly is working and going in the road and living in the woods. Therefore, given the laws on the agenda of the Assembly, that the key laws are still not in the procedure and that, at that time, the extremely difficult social situation, from children to pensioners, comes to the surface, major abuses in privatisation, kidnapping of property, etc., is logical, and the Assembly, in addition to the legislative, has a control function, is logical to ask these questions. I'm looking for the next notice. We are witnessing these days that workers often come to the National Assembly, they should come here, that is their National Assembly – yesterday "Magnochrom", where workers struggle to survive, small shareholders of the "Centromarket", who warn the state that the "Centromarket" was robbed, that it was privatized for extremely small money, warn the prosecution not to perform its duties, workers of the RC "Belgrade" who, unfortunately, protect huge property from the state, in addition to their rights. Here's another example where state authorities are pushing Secerano Belgrade's latest decisions from regular privatisation into bankruptcy, all for the purchase of large assets of this company into bankruptcy. In 2006, the Privatisation Agency concluded that the privatisation process was terminated because there were no management bodies in the company, which are necessary for the management and adoption of privatisation documents. Given that the restructuring began in 2002, it was not possible to implement this because of the lack of authorities, but that is why the government and the resolution ministry form a committee in Secerana Belgrade in June 2006, and the executive director is being appointed in February 2007. In just a few months, these authorities have managed to formulate the necessary privatisation documentation and have prepared a privatisation company. Meanwhile, the government is changing its decision and its intention regarding the company, predicting bankruptcy for this house. So, just from March to July of the month. Why is that an interesting question? For the simple reason that apparently one of the tycoon threw his eye at 10 hectares of land again at the most attractive location, in Čukarica, in Belgrade and 110 hectares in the Padinska Skele. For these reasons, they're pushing this company into bankruptcy to get some of this property bad. That is why I am asking the Government for a notice, and given that both property and workers' rights are at risk, which is why the Government is doing so and why it does not give this company a chance and the newly elected authorities of the administration to carry out the regular privatisation process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7771	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Aleksandra Jerkov appeared, and then National MP Slobodana Mladenova.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7772	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and People's Parliament, Mr. President and the Presidency, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure item 3 - not allowed to use offensive expressions. I believe, Mr. President, that you had to react when counterpart Žutic called the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina a separatist party. It's an insult for me to be told I'm a separatist. But before that, I would only comment on the presentation of a colleague from the NS who spoke about women's rights. Indeed, for every conviction, what is happening in Knic municipality, however, you colleagues are clearly misusing it, and that is an even greater condemnation, which is what you abuse for women's rights for party promotion. You do so by obviously not understanding the essence of the struggle for women’s rights, since you call your colleagues in this congregation mothers or future mothers. Although it's amazing to you, some woman doesn't have to be a mother, maybe she can't, maybe she doesn't want to, and that's the essence of fighting for women's rights. A woman is not a mother, so don't talk about women's rights until you realize it. It's a choice, and it's a basic female right, right to choose. Just don't talk about women's rights until you do. The second thing, if you had adopted an amendment that the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina had proposed at the time, to create a Ministry of Gender Equality, then there would have been someone in the government who would have listened. Since you then refused that amendment and refused to create a ministry that would deal with gender equality, which would deal with women's rights, I don't think you have the right to speak of women's rights right now. Mr. Žutić, as far as you're concerned, I don't think those accusations of separatism are worth commenting on anymore. We've been listening to them for 17 years. First of all, I will say that this flag, which you point out as evidence of the Social Democrats League Separatism, is a constitutional category. It is defined by the Constitution your party supported, so please now respect it and allow the regions to have their flags. The President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Bojan Kostreš, in no statement, called for the state in any of his performances, as you say, or anything. After all, it's known during whose government the state has become increasingly torn and shrinked, so it doesn't need to be commented either. As for the equalization of fascists and anti-fascists, we've already had a chance to listen here. As for the equalization of persons, or the Fuhrer who celebrates Himmler's birthday in Novi Sad, the people who shout legally, the people who throw stones at the citizens of Novi Sad who go to put flowers on the monument to the victims of the raid in Novi Sad and those citizens who did so, is a clear side of fascists... I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7773	Thank you. Let me answer that, since you've advertised Article 104. The fact is that this speaker is sometimes spoken in words that are offensive, but the threshold of tolerance for insult is different. The word'separatist' is not something I would react to, but certainly are the words spoken here, which I have not responded to yet, but I will have to because it really is a violation of this assembly's dignity, such as A thief, a thief, a thief, a criminal, a drug dealer, etc. Every time that word is spoken, I will warn the MP not to use such words and use my right to conduct this session. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Slobodana Mladenovic appeared and then MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7774	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. Is there any need for me to read it? (President: No, go ahead. Thank you. I'm very sorry that at least I don't understand among my colleagues. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure. You just saw that I didn't have enough time to explain everything and that I wanted to show you an article in the paper, since my colleagues are here to read the paper. I hope you can read this. It says here - they don't have the money to buy milk. Is this a shame for all of us? What I wanted to tell you is that I am a gynecologist and that my definition is such that I will always fight to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancy interruptions without increasing the number of healthy and capable children's lives. That's very important. I, who work there, know best how much it costs for mothers who fight for all nine months, some by maintaining pregnancy, and we know what it looks like, to bring a healthy and capable child to the world. I never went out for this pay phone for the political promotion of my party. As for what's written here, I don't know my mother, it was a case of a lady from Knic, and I have a lot to say about all this. For Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, let me just say: two SO Knic committee members from the DS, two Karic board members and a group of civil council members. So much for knowing what it's about. I'll always stand for it, colleague, for it to be born as much as possible. It's a shame that other colleagues don't support me, and I'm never going to use this phone booth as some kind of declarative right to just talk about increasing the birth rate without actually fighting for it. So, specifically from this pay phone, I'm saying that I'm going to argue that as much is born in this country as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7775	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Momir Markovic, Vjerica Radeta, Slobodan Maras, Milorad Belic, Milena Stankovic reported. Since it's 11:30 and we've spent an hour and a half of our time reporting to the Rules of Procedure, I'd really like to ask you to slowly close our reports on the Rules of Procedure and move on to a debate on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7776	Now turn off the time when I quote the members of the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 and Article 226 of the Parliament of People, have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is it uninformed or insinuating or is it... In general, it is mentioned in a negative context of the Committee on Gender Equality, whose member I am. I remind the members of the Committee on Gender Equality from the NS and others who were on Thursday when we made the decision and forwarded it to the Ministry on this particular case, because the play came to the Committee on Gender Equality, that colleagues from that committee had come out because it was also a request for Tjanic's shift. When I asked a colleague - well, well, your attitude was to get rid of this Tijanic thing. He says, yes, that's my opinion, but I disagree with him. The Gender Equality Committee reacted. You can't say that the Gender Equality Committee is doing nothing about this. The departments are obliged to finish their part of the job. This is not the first case, since the Bulldozer Revolution, many cases of pregnant women being fired from work. Since the "bulldozer of the revolution", when it came to Serbia, because you burned the Assembly and Television, many have lost bread; many, since you are in power, my dear lady, half of Serbia has no bread nor milk. So much for that. Just one warning to the Muslim brothers about this iftar dinner organized by the American ambassador. After that, Mr. Ambassador's statement came out, he says - I'll calm the Muslims. Don't make a difference, my dear gentlemen, between verbs to calm down and die. Thirty years already dying Muslims in Palestine, here, 10-12 years in Iraq, 10-15 years in Afghanistan, and I hear they're getting ready to die in Iran too. Take care, I'm afraid that iftar dinner won't be stamped.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7777	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, and then the People's Messenger, Slobodan Maraš, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7778	Mr. Dulic, Article 100, said: "If, even after explaining the president of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. "So there are no questions as you ask, whether you are satisfied or not, but the MP of the sea, this is an unarranged form of this regulation, but the MP must from this place say whether he remains on the claim. That's my claim. You did not give Mr. Todorovic an explanation about this situation in the City Assembly illegally, illegally, unconstitutionally, you did not answer Mr. Todorovic's specific and direct question whether you would call the mayor's election because you are bound by the Constitution and the law. When you responded to me, Mr. Dulic, you tried to demean me as a MP and underestimate my intelligence, you explained Article 199(2), and I advertised Article 199. Mr. Dulic, I ask you best to follow the work of this Parliament and make sure that, as far as we are concerned by the SRS, there is not a single letter, let alone one word to pass. You just said you wouldn't let the words of a thief, a thief, a criminal, etc. be mentioned for this pay phone. For ye shall keep the reputation of the people's congregation. Mr. Dulic, if there is any reasonable doubt, or the MP has knowledge that he has embezzled some money, that he has stolen something, that he has destroyed some company, the MP can and must call him a real name, to say he is a thief, to say he is a criminal, and you cannot forbid it. If you want to guard the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Dulic, then make sure that this unconstitutional state ceases in the National Assembly, because from the very beginning you do not respect the Constitution. The constitutional law has not fulfilled its obligations yet, and you don't care. One more sentence. You see, since you left this morning at the beginning of a completely unnecessary monologue, you've caused it to be us, instead of discussing the agenda, for an hour and a half we've been warning you about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7779	I thank Mrs. Radetti. Given that you have opened a large number of questions, Mr. Todorovic said he will send me a stenogram, that I will get a stenogram, then of course he will get my view about it. As for all the other things, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure if I've said a few words here that I don't think are correct to be mentioned by a congregation speaker. If you have evidence that someone was doing illegal acts, you have the right to speak, but you have no right to insult this man from this pay phone. I can't forbid it, but I can warn you to use words that simply don't comply with the fact that you're standing behind the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So that we no longer enter the polemics, please bring this debate to an end. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras, then MP Milorad Belic and then MP Milena Stankovic appeared. Hopefully after that, we'll move on to work on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a pleasure to see you chair the parliament again. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure first. You must make a difference, Mr. Dulic, this Rules of Procedure has its parts. So Part 14 speaks of the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. Article 199 speaks of the possibility of determining the day when parliamentary questions will be asked. In contrast to Part 14, part 16 speaks of the rights and duties of the MPs, and there is Article 225. I would now quote, so please stop my time: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP." There is Article 226, where he says, "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations," etc. So I won't take any more time, please, if you can, give it back. Thank you very much. Yesterday I took the opportunity to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to take advantage of the members of 225 and 226, my right to ask the question of the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, we didn't get any indication that the question came to him. I have to set him up again, and I would ask you, or those closest to him, so Minister Cvetkovic, who is not here right now but is also part of the government... So the question was -- how could it be in the daily paper for two days...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7781	Mr. Maras, you read that MP question yesterday. The parliamentary question was drawn from the stenographic notes and sent to the minister of justice, today I will sign it and send it. Do you feel that there really is a need to read again today a matter of MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7782	I absolutely do, because it's very important. Now I'm going to tell you why it's important, but I hope this time where you're getting into my word...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7783	Wait, how do you think it's possible for you to ask a parliamentary question yesterday in the afternoon and that you're unhappy that you didn't get an answer this morning?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7784	Because it's a very important question. So we see that the state isn't working, that the government is inefficient, that it allows those in prison, who are...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7785	Okay, here you go, ask a parliamentary question, but make sure it's very incorrect what you're doing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7786	Mr. Dulic, I really respect the function you do, and I've never treated you incorrectly or in this assembly room before. The question I ask or the way I ask you the question irritates you does not give you the right to label MPs to behave incorrectly or to, as you did seven days ago, warn MPs not to work in the Assembly Hall and not to work in a way that is appropriate. So, I noticed that you weren't there for a few days, you had obligations as president of the assembly, and that's fine. We didn't call you here, we count on you to work in the interest of the National Assembly. So please don't interrupt me, especially with the intruders that it's incorrect what I'm doing. I really need to ask, because this is an issue that is important for all citizens of Serbia, of course, for the citizens of Novi Sad and for us who belong to the LDP. An interview came out in the paper, which was given by a person in custody, who leads the "National Machine" and who, apart from saying other things, brought out some nebuloses when it comes to members of the LDP. My question for the minister of justice is - how is it possible that whoever is in custody and is not the first, I underline it, or is he in prison giving interviews to daily newspapers, how do these interviews arrive in daily newspapers and who are being worked by guards and employees in prison and detention units, do they work for the state and in its interest or work for those who have violated the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7787	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Belic and then MP Milena Stankovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7788	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, which refers to the misreading of what Dr Kovacevic, yesterday, and Dr Mladenovic, today, presented on the subject on which it was mentioned. So, not to read that article. You see, I wouldn't engage here in an evaluation of demagogue parolees and flossulas trying to win voters. It's your legitimate right. I just want to remind you of a few specific facts that need to be worried about everyone sitting in this house, in the National Assembly, who is competent to pass laws. What's this about? You see, according to the exact data from the Bureau of Statistics and other institutions dealing with the demographic problem, the last time this research was done, newborns and children up to the age of four were 4.5% compared to the entire population in Serbia, over 40 years 8% and over 65 years 6.5%. According to the 2012 projection, the situation will be even more unfavourable. Newborns and children up to the age of four will be barely 4% or 4%, over 55 years old will be 8% and over 75 years almost 10%. So, if you take that data, you see what kind of danger threatens Serbia. Of course, the unfavorable data are about the relationship between the dead and the newborns, so you had a recent chance to hear or read and the fact that in 2006, about 35,000 people died more than they were born. In the first grade of elementary school in 2002, 10,457 girls were enrolled less than 10 years before, or 11.911 boys less than 10 years ago, 1991 - 1992. These are the data discussed by New Serbia's MPs who wanted to point to the seriousness of this issue. It's not about picking up cheap political points, I believe that's what's going to be here, it's about before, it's about the dramatic situation. I believe the MPs received a copy of last term and a brochure from a respected professor, journalist, "Serbia, a burning candle", a man who has been dealing with the problem in Serbia for decades. An MP from the DSS - NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Dr Radoslav Jovic, has already submitted a concrete proposal for a law on material restoration, i.e. the reproduction of the population in Serbia. It's not about demagogy, it's about what they do and what MPs are supposed to do in this house. I should also say that I should use this as a time when I have already reported that Dr Zorica Kovacevic did not leave the Gender Equality Committee, for the simple reason that she was not at that session because of her professional obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7789	Does National MP Milena Stankovic give up? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, we have opened a very important topic. Speaking of women in Serbia, I think the opportunity is... The Member by which I reported is Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. "What I am about to say is necessary for the function of the MP or MP. Serbia is a country where 200,000 abortions are performed annually and that is something none of us can be proud of, on the contrary, that is something that we all need to be very concerned about and something we should think about and take as a serious problem, for which we should look for a solution. What NS colleagues are talking about is the treatment of consequences, not the treatment of causes, because in this country no one interrupts pregnancy from obsolescence, no one decides on such a move because they do not want to have children, but rather because they do not dare to take such a step in their lives because they are not all as well-settled and rich as MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and do not all have such a relationship with birth and motherhood, which does not mean that they do not want to have children. Yesterday I read a paper that said that the average salary in Nis is only 13,000 dinars. How can someone who has 13,000 dinars dare to give birth to, say, a husband who has such a salary? Imagine, then, three people and 26,000 dinars in the home budget. What's being asked as a question, what's very important right now, and what we all need to think about is who's responsible for it. Who is responsible for Serbia being the happiest society in Europe, a country where women do not give birth, from which young people leave, in which pensioners beg God to die as soon as possible so as not to suffer? Who's responsible for that? There is one survey, recently published in a daily list, which says only 5% of Serbian citizens define themselves as happy people; 95% of the country's citizens find themselves unhappy. Who's responsible for that? If we talk, fellow Members, you and I, colleagues from the NS, I can tell you that the party of which you have been a member of the government for two mandates and you have a great responsibility. You're talking about how expensive milk is and how children in Serbia can't eat, and what did you do to keep it from happening? You remembered now that you are talking about women's rights and children's problems in Serbia, when your staff in Knic is personally at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7791	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Svetlana Kitić and then the National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Please, let's really move on to the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7792	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I couldn't stay indifferent to everything that was going on. First of all, I should remind you, in fact, to ask the Minister a question -- why hasn't the baby equipment tax been taken down yet? The second question, if you're already fighting for all those rights, I'd just ask you, when there was a vote to take down VAT on baby equipment, you voted for what?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7793	MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, come in. I'm going to ask the minister to explain after the presentation on these points of the agenda, since the subject of birth and birth problems has been opened, he can give his position.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7794	I'm reporting under Article 225, and probably at the end of this presentation, there'll be some kind of question that's affecting Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I must tell you that, at the invitation of the citizens of Jasa Tomic, engineer Mr Milutin Mrkonjic and I attended a meeting last night that included more than 400 citizens from Jasa Tomic. You probably know the problems of our citizens. The village of Jasa Tomic has more than 3,000 inhabitants, and on 20 April 2005, they were struck by a flood, the largest in 100 years. You probably remember all of these campaigns that were run in the past to help these people. We want to remind you now that 830 houses in that village have been torn down. We want to take advantage of Mr. Finance's presence, even though we know he doesn't have a magic wand and it's not all in his hands, but to answer some questions. There are 272 other houses, marked with yellow, which means they need to collapse. Citizens claim that the funds for the recovery have been reduced by 40%. Although they were promised to be paid off in full, disappointed citizens ask why they were denied 40% of the amount. It's about 50 million dinars for all the houses. They are still seeking to finish 70 houses started so that they can move into them before winter; to pay for the damage caused by the groundwater, which has not been paid to anyone, and to record the damage caused by the underground waters that activated the slides, resulting in 13 more houses being torn down. Also, to pay the rest of the fees not paid on behalf of agricultural land, fields and gardens, which they were also promised; to pay for 800 households compensation for destroyed furniture, furniture, etc. What hurts them the most and I think it's driven them to this idea, is that injustice and not being paid evenly, or not paid by the lists that have been delivered. They cite examples that some have won a million dinars, and some have received nothing. I don't know why that difference was made between them, when they're all in the same problem, they don't have a roof over their heads. I would also like to draw your attention, as the village of Jasa Tomic is most media-exposed, that this also applies to the village of Medi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7795	I would like to thank all the MPs for their correct conduct in this debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on draft laws under items 21 - 25 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 149a of Article 149a(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform the MPs that the mandated representative for the SRS parliamentary group is MP Jorvanka Tabakovic and MP Milan Nikolic for the SPS parliamentary group. We move to a joint single search of 21-25th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY ON THE CONFORMITY OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE COURT OF THE EUROPEAN ASSISTANCE; ECONOMY AND INDIA CONTRIBUTION OF THE ECONOMY AUTHORITIES CONTRIBUTION OF THE SCHG AND INDIA Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. I give my word to Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of you, for ratification, there are proposals for five laws confirming signed contracts. Of these five laws, one contract refers to a loan, and four contracts concern confirming bilateral relations between Serbia and the respective country. We'll go through them to see which countries this is about. In this brief presentation, I would refer to the essence of some of these laws, with a view to making some recommendations afterwards. The first law on which it is concerned is the law confirming the Framework Loan Treaty concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Reconstruction of the Council of Europe. It is a contract signed as early as 30 November 2006 and it refers to a loan of 10m euros intended to finance reconstruction and reconstruction of housing and accompanying infrastructure in a number of central Serbian municipalities, including those affected by slides. The total value of the project is 12.5m euros. Of that, as I said, the contract was signed for a 10m loan, and 2.5m euros will be provided by the government through the Republic of Serbia's budget. This loan is granted under very favourable conditions. The payment deadline is 10 years, and the grace period is five years. When it comes to interest rates, it is variable and it is different from the tranche to the tranche, which will be determined depending on the movement of the libora, i.e. the euribora, but is intended to be given a subsidy of about 3%, so this would indeed be an extremely favourable loan. Given that he was signed, as I said, by the end of 2006, I appeal to be ratified so that he could be released into circulation as soon as possible. The next proposal is a bill confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India. This agreement was signed on 7 February 2006. As you saw from the title itself, it was signed by a representative of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, and only now came for ratification. Of course, Serbia as a Successor practically takes over everything that is signed and therefore needs to be ratified by this parliament, but the title remains to refer to Serbia-Montenegro because, as the lawyers explained, it cannot change the title of the document that was signed. The agreement itself confirms that both sides, in a concrete case, Serbia on the one hand and India on the other, express their willingness to expand trade and economic co-operation on market principles, then approve each other's treatment of the most senior nation in trade between customs and other duties and, finally, to provide free transit for goods intended for the other side and to give other benefits common to this type of agreement. The next contract also concerns a contract between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India, but this time it is about avoiding double taxation in relation to income taxes and the property of citizens of one country or another. This contract was signed on 8 February 2006. Practically, the explanations given for the previous agreement also apply to this one, therefore, that it was signed by a representative of the Council of Ministers, and we, as a Successor of ratification, assume the rights and obligations that arise from it. The essence of this contract is that its degree in force removes the problem of double taxation of income and property of citizens of one and other countries, then eliminates or significantly reduces tax disturbances that make it difficult for the free movement of capital, goods, services and people, legal certainty is created in the exercise of activity, and, in the end of the line, stimulates the investment of the capital of one state residents in another under mutually equal conditions. The next draft law refers to a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. This agreement was signed on 15 May 2007 and it is basically a legal framework for the exchange of data whose purpose, firstly, is to help prevent violations of customs, foreign and foreign trade regulations, then, which is very important, to ensure co-ordination in the fight against smuggling, and also to enable exchanges of experts and training of personnel from both sides. Finally, its task is also to bring customs systems in line and address the problems encountered in the application of customs regulations. Finally, the last draft of the law is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters. This Agreement is, by its technical essence, identical to the agreement to be made as a proposal for relations with the Republic of Poland. Therefore, it also refers to data exchange and assistance in preventing violations of customs regulations, smuggling, customs coordination, staff training, exchange of experts, etc. So it's essentially very similar to this previous one, because it was signed on June 1st 2007, so recently, and it needs its ratification to come into effect. Given the importance of these contracts that have been spoken of so far – as I have said, only one applies to the loan of these ten million, the other concerns the regulation of bilateral relations – I suggest and urge that the ratification of these agreements be voted upon, so that they enter into force and that our party may benefit from all the advantages given to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7797	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am reporting as chairman of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, which is not the parent board, the parent committee is the Committee on Finance, however, it is certainly an interested committee, according to the agenda that is now in place. As you know, one of the points of the agenda of today's session is to consider the proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, the so-called C Bank, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the Assembly Committee on Urbanism and Building, whose president, I held a session on 3 October of the current year and as interested, as I said, not the parent board, decided and decided unanimously to support the adoption of the draft law. As you know, in 2006, the territory of the Republic of Serbia was hit by a series of natural disasters: floods, droughts, the city, ice-skating sites. It's never happened again. I come from the municipality of Trstenik, where the largest slide in the Balkans was activated in 2006. In the populated town of Bogdanje the total surface area of the sliding area is 68 hectares and 75 acres in the center of the settlement. The total number of residential facilities in the endangered area is 131 and the number of households is 128. According to the CIP report, which has been doing geotechnical research, skating is not possible, but it is necessary to evict the entire settlement. Therefore, three hectares and 75 acres of land were purchased at Polje or Orlovac and the construction of a new settlement began, with complete municipal and road infrastructure. So far, 23 of the projected 44 buildings have been built in the first phase, between 65m and 115m square meters, and most of the road, water, utility and power grids have been completed. In addition to the inhabited town of Bogdanje, as the largest rink, the rink appeared at a dozen other locations. All I'm going to mention is the rinks where the housing facilities are directly compromised. These are settlements of Jasikovica, Dublje, Brezovica and Rujišnik. It is not easy to determine the damage in the municipality of Trstenik, because the skating point is a process that lasts. We were lucky in the accident that the previous two years were extremely dry, so the speedy operation of the rink was slow. Otherwise, the projected budget of the municipality of Trstenik is about 350 million dinars, you will admit, very little to 52,000 inhabitants, so without the help of the Republic it is unable to cope with the disaster of this size. I'll tell you later about the other municipalities. You'll see that most of them are in a similar economic situation. The project to remove the consequences of the skating on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in an investment sense is a very serious project. Total investments in the entire territory of the emerging rinks are divided into two continents. This in the first phase, which is subject to ratification, covers 20 endangered municipalities, where the work on the damage recovery has already moved away and will be financed from the 10m-euro loan mentioned. The second stage may be even more serious because it deals with the removal of the glider caused by the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The subject of some new ratifications under a so-called C bank loan, which has already been granted a 20m-euro loan. The total pre-calculation value of the first phase, according to Mr. Minister, is 12.5m euros, of which 10m from the World Bank loan, 2.5m from the funds of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, since it's not my profession, I'm not going to deal with credit benefits, grace periods and others. I would just mention these 20 municipalities, since it is not only central Serbia, you will see for yourself, a little bit of Serbia has been affected, which has been identified by funds based on the reports delivered by municipal commissions. I'm deliberately undermining this. So it was all based on the report on the assessment of the damage to the municipal commissions. These are: the already mentioned municipality of Trstenik...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7799	Time's up. The word is attended by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7800	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda of a set of laws, i.e. confirming one loan agreement, two agreements on co-operation in customs matters and two agreements with India that represent the development of good friendly relations, but in the economic sphere. For those who have no patience, I will first of all state the position of the Serbian Radical Party. For the hardest part of this set of laws, it is a loan agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, the Serbian Radical Party cannot vote, regardless of the good intentions of those who offer us money, because I will persistently repeat and demand from you, Minister, what is your legal obligation. The Public Debt Administration was formed in 2005, which is required to tell the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, its MPs and citizens how much money we take as a liability, how much it will cost in terms of interest, commissions, damages, fees, late payments, interest on undrawn funds, how much penalty euros we have to bear as a burden if no dedicated funds are used and whether Serbia's budget can withstand this kind of debt. When you come out as a serious ministry in front of this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a tenm-euro debt, in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides 2.5, so state, as you did not mention here, interest, so put at least one review, which is not here, about what the current responsibilities are, whether we will be in a position to pay them off or all of our newly created social product will have to pay off the loan, then we will see if we can, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, because they are full of the budget, grant one such loan. Believe me, it's not too strict if I say we don't have the minimum necessary data to decide on this loan. Before I move on to concrete facts about him, I will say two things that also do not contribute at all to two agreements that talk about mutual assistance in customs matters with the Republic of Slovenia and Poland. Dear colleagues, although you've had too many agendas, if you've just taken to compare these two legal texts that treat the same matter, it first defines different terms of customs regulations, customs duties, requesting authorities, etc. What's he talking about? It speaks of the government of Serbia and its ministries getting texts they agree on, without a minimum of self-respect that two texts that treat the same matter, even formally, resemble each other. If you think that they do not have any weight or that it is something that is a delay in the Serbian Radical Party, because the form is different, I can assure you that there are very interesting solutions in these two proposals for an agreement regarding the use of information and documents concerning individuals, citizens, information that can be useful, desirable in the conduct of certain judicial disputes and procedures in which the people of this Agreement can be found. When it comes to Slovenia, these provisions are regulated very precisely and restrictively towards us, unlike Poland, where it is something more liberal. So, very superficially, it says that Serbia does not care about the interests of citizens who are the subject of these agreements, in terms of customs co-operation. So we're behind the need to cooperate, but in principle, as well as everywhere, a partnership relationship, not serving and copying the documents that someone else is offering you. When it comes to the agreement on trade and economic co-operation with India, I will only say in principle that India belongs to a group of countries with which we will gladly develop business, economic, friendly, political and all other relations. It represents an interesting area, a large number of inhabitants and the future and for the placement of our goods there. However, Mr JadrankoVuković, my colleague, will give you a more precise assessment, which fits the general assessment: you do not have an overview of the effects, comparative data on the tax and other elements on which we can see that the interest of citizens is to agree on behalf of them to this agreement. You will also get more detailed information about the construction of an IT park in India. Mr. Minister, the matter most interested in our citizens, and I, in particular, not to give you any objections, but to warn you, is the following: although this Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe represents one of the banks that truly have very humane intentions to invest only in the social aspects of the development of any Member State of the Council of Europe... I stress, therefore, the organisation in which we are a member and who recognises countries regardless of the kind of democracy that we develop within our market economy, which is not the case with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, according to which we have two types of very difficult guarantees. So this is not a bank that requires us with credit and certain political constraints or imposes obligations on us in that sense. Let's say that's the move, that this loan we're taking is on the other side. So there are no political conditions. However, since we, as a SCG, a member of this organization, have probably earned so much credit to tell us where and how it has been spent so far, for example: building apartments for refugees 20m euros, for municipalities of 10m euros, employment, first tranche, states and citizens have been obliged to pay back, 20m euros, aid in removing the effects of last year's floods in Banat, a few times a colleague spoke about it, is also the assistance that is financed, and this last, help for the victims of the slide. Mrs. Sladjana Prica, Ambassador to the Council of Europe in Montenegro's permanent mission, made a statement on the 60m euros so far on 27 April 2006. There's no record of that in the material you delivered. The way we radicals prepare for these sessions, I find out and I introduce you citizens... The minister doesn't have to listen, I think Sasha Dragin is really a rare example of a minister who treats the MP and the work that works. The one who doesn't feel like a commitment, I can't make it, and I have no intention. What I'm trying to say is that the 60 million has already been placed through Delta Bank, which was already a member of the Inthesis Group. Even those international financial institutions that do not use politics openly or in a secondary way are pulling into funding, placing their funds through those banks that are within a circle of stakeholders who eventually end up with a loan for the Republic of Serbia's budget. So far, almost no credit has been placed without it being a "Cepter Bank", which no longer exists, "Pro Credit Bank", "HVB Bank" -- it's the bank from which the governor was announced before he came. Also, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which otherwise invests heavily with us, will be subject to the following guarantees. Through these and such organizations, funds are being placed in this country. Mr. Minister, are we MPs worthy of informing that these loans were used on purpose, since their deadlines were for example. Eight years for municipalities and five years, these 20 million, for small and medium-sized enterprises, it was called financing new employment, it was five years in the moment the loans started. It's said that if these deadlines are too short, we'll extend them to 10 or 15. Dear citizens, if we were at the market, so a salesman from that gig would know how to tell you - a month ago I sold you 60 dinar tomatoes, today he's worth 80. I don't know, as an MP here, as an economist who needs to raise his hand and vote for this, on what deadline these funds really are approved. In order to know, if the loan we take is 10m euros, and Mr. Minister says - our participation is another 2.5m euros. That's not true. He didn't say that our spending, the cost of the budget, and the interest paid on these funds. This interest is more favourable than the market, within the country, than these benefits that are called foreign banks in our area, is the monthly eurobor, which will be agreed every 30 days. That monthly eurybor is 4,137, three days ago when I started preparing for this part of the agenda. Six months is 4.75. Is someone gonna pay that interest and does it have to go into the total cost of this job that we call a loan agreement? If it were unambiguous, it would have been written, but it wasn't, the interest was presented, and you won't point it out to us. For us, Mr Jelasic is just about 30 billion dinars of loss, or 376m euros in loss, exchange rate or currency risk. Have you, Mr. Minister, told us here what is the foreign exchange risk of the loan taken in euro? When the gentlemen, with Jelasic and Dinkic in charge, closed the banks, did not ask why the "Belgrade Bank", "Jugobanka", "Investbanka", why they were all in losses, whether because of sanctions, exchange rates, large public enterprises or not, I don't know what. No, the banks are closed and in one day there are 8,000 people left on the street. Is this currency risk, today when he defends his loss, Mr Jelasic means that there have been some terrible shifts in currency relations on the world market, or is he trying to say that he is managing someone else, not him, to justify that loss? What can you justify us not telling us what for the state of Serbia and the budget is a risk of borrowing in the euro? The governor knows that and he tells the banks, 30% of your positions must be strictly recalculated, which means foreign exchange risk, and it is 21.1% for our business banks. So they're in the security zone on currency risk. What about the budget? I'm asking whoever's in charge, dear citizens, and if we're going to get an answer, I'm optimistic, but I'm afraid that waiting will be in vain. Why will it be in vain? The Public Debt Act was passed in 2005, the Public Debt Administration is only a cube in the systematization of the Ministry of Finance on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No appointed director, no service, and a job for her is the Treasury Department. The Treasury is under your jurisdiction, so I was expecting a report on what we're talking about today. How much is the burden on this loan? You haven't recalculated, but you've made a commitment, and that's why the Ministry of Infrastructure, to submit a report to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which will contain an assessment of the economic, financial, social and environmental effects of the project. Did you first have to make such an assessment of the economic, financial and other consequences to bring here? You know what that is, what a study that's a prerequisite for getting a loan. Any bank would tell you that they won't give credit to the least entrepreneur, not to the firm until they bring in a business plan and assess the justification of the smallest and lowest loan. Are we the state? Are we less serious than a farmer's cooperative or a str enterprises that have the right to receive credit, but under these conditions? I really feel it as underestimating Serbia's citizens. Do you think if you put 34 points on the agenda, we won't read this? Do you think we think this isn't important, it's not hard, it's not burdensome and some money's going to fall out of the sky? No, there will be fewer incomes than privatisations from which you will be able to service the loans you owe us. I won't have time in this address to make any more remarks, but I will bring them out during the debate. What I want to say to the citizens is the most interesting fact that the text of this bill gives the incorrect information that the agreement was signed on 30 November 2006, with the desire for MPs to be caught in the trap of knowing that the authorised person, which this bank insists on, as well as any, that under the Public Debt Act, only the Minister of Finance has the authority to sign such a loan. We all know that Mr Dinkic, whose signature stands on this agreement, was not the finance minister back then. However, the way you exercise power is too transparent for us and therefore, with the weight of the financial nature of this agreement, I will point out this, not to use a more difficult word, which is called incorrection. Mr Dinkic, if you remember, had talked much earlier about his resignation, left the government, but remained to do some work and solemnly announced to us on November 9th that he was leaving the government, that he had left the register full and finished all the jobs. How full the till was, we saw, Mr. Minister, from the budget you presented to us, the minus that you found and that forgotten money from the health insurance funds. But with Vojislav Kostunica's decision on November 14th, by the Prime Minister's decision, all powers were transferred from the finance minister to Parivodic. The agreement is signed by the other side on November 30th, but Mr Dinkic, open the text and you will see, signed on November 8th. I'm not prepared to claim it's an antidote or anything, but it's really not about inaccuracy. It's about the way you exercise power. You knew Mr. Parivodić wasn't authorized to sign it. Is it really signed on November 8th, it doesn't matter. It is important that you impose financial obligations on the state and citizens, that you falsely represent the effect of these measures in which you involve all of us, and that, along with each other, the promotions of authorized, unauthorized, indemnities or non-indebted ones last until the day of today, to the extent that young talents do not have the money to finance their scholarships, one project in which you are a participant and you, because they seem to have set you up to forget that money, such as Parivodić’s time-forgotten subsidisation of loans for residential construction. So much for this announcement, but I reserve the right to continue as a debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7801	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is from MP Milan Nikolic, the mandated SPS president at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7802	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are again discussing the unnaturally connected points of the agenda today. To remind you, we are discussing the proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues, the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that such an unnatural integration of agendas and unification, according to the business procedure, the debate on five points does not provide enough space for all aspects to look at a specific legislative project, to make certain remarks and possibly correct the proposed documents standing before us. I'll try to take a brief look at all the projects proposed. Much has been said by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, when it comes to this proposal for a bill to confirm the Treaty with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It is the amount of 10m euros, the funds that are to be used for the recovery and reconstruction of damaged infrastructure facilities and housing damaged in rinks and floods that destroyed many of the areas in Serbia in early 2006 and spring. Then the media and the press wrote extensively about it and detailedly informed about the launch of many rinks and the destruction of traffic, the destruction of houses, the eviction of families, and even entire settlements. In particular, vulnerable settlements in the vicinity of Kruševac, Brusa, Ljiga, Sječnja, Kragujevac, Koceljeva, Jagodina, Čačka, Uba, Majdanpek, in particular the Bogdanja on the territory of the municipality of Trstenik, where the condition of the elemental accident was declared. I haven't listed many other slides yet. The government of the Republic of Serbia then pledged all-out assistance primarily in the construction of houses, the rehabilitation of damaged houses, as well as in the recovery of infrastructure facilities. Of course, this loan should serve its full purpose, and the amount of two and a half million euros allocated from the budget. Unfortunately, I must note that this proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, by this high home, also speaks a lot about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly. In addition to the conditions listed, I would say in some stages favourable and in other very rigorous terms for this amount of loans, especially with regard to the submission of a report on the dedicated spending of funds obtained in tranches and shrewd notice that the funds will be spent in the reconstruction of damaged houses and infrastructures, the promoter did not find appropriate to inform the Assembly of what has been done so far, that is, by dynamic means of recovery, how many families have returned to the renovated and newly built houses and what has been done at the skating. The MPs of this assembly, as well as the citizens of Serbia, have the right to receive information; if we have already committed ourselves, if we have already taken the obligation to carry out this action, especially humanely, to know what has been done. We have talked a lot these days about other points of the agenda, about global warming, about the effects of the creation of a glass garden; as a result, there are periods of long-term droughts, behind this long-lasting rain and flood, which is directly due to the opening of new rinks, besides those that already exist there. This is exactly the kind of weather this problem will certainly be potential in the next period. We should have been introduced by the promoter if all potential and active slides, first of all, were registered, which measures were taken to avoid further construction in such areas, whether one of those slides that were actively rehabilitated, because the recovery of the slide, apparently, is much cheaper than the damage that could follow when the slide is activated. Instead, we have a loan agreement, which has already been signed and is expected to be confirmed by the Assembly. The assembly majority will probably confirm this proposal, but with a large number of MPs, even the citizens will remain under the impression that the government is lightly in debt, under rather rigorous conditions of repaying loans, without taking measures to prevent these major damages from happening further, without knowing whether budgets for these purposes are being forecasted in the coming years. When it comes to the second legislative proposal, economic co-operation with the Republic of India, you have probably noticed that, in the light of such an agreement, the initiative was launched by the Government of the Republic of India. I want to remind myself of the traditional friendly relations between our country and India, which are in the memory of both peoples, primarily from the period when there was a movement of non-classified; unfortunately, good friendly and economic relations are interrupted due to unfortunate events in these areas, primarily sanctions and the disintegration of Yugoslavia. This agreement improves, renews. India for Serbian opportunities should be a major challenge. India is a large country, several times larger than Europe, which numbers over a billion inhabitants. It is another country in the world by population, with a tendency to speed up population growth. Although it is a relatively undeveloped country, where there are marked differences between the rich and the poor, it becomes an extremely attractive country, because it has a great wealth of nature, it owns, unfortunately, cheap labour and has a huge potential market. Finally, European producers would not have invested massively in this country, so the country's economic growth has been very pronounced in recent years, economic growth has been recorded as a percentage of 11 to 13 and GDP growth is on average 9.3%. It's obvious that India's economy is in expansion, and it's a good time for us to connect to this great country. According to experts, India will certainly, like the Chinese economy, continue to develop rapidly. It is estimated that by the middle of this century India will become the second economic power in the world. It is our country's interest, first and foremost given the favor of the people of India towards us, to take advantage of the opportunity we can have in various areas, primarily in cooperation in agriculture, traffic, telecommunications, health, textile industry, where it is very rich in raw materials, and the expectations are for India to be their window, as they say, in the world towards Russia and Europe. The newly formed mixed economic committee through this agreement provides a chance to achieve common goals and it is realistic to expect us to return to the former level of co-operation, where we have achieved high exchanges of goods and surpluses, which is very important in the trade between goods with this country. The state and businessmen must synchronise steps towards the development of this co-operation, especially the Chamber, which must step out of the closed institution's stereotype and help actively to penetrate our goods towards India. The amazing activity of the ambassadors of the Republic of India, which has been visiting cities and businessmen for months and affirmations of its country, is its production and is looking for ways to co-operate with Serbia. It is particularly important to define the status of the most privileged nation in this agreement. I think this is going in the direction and in order to achieve the mutual interests of the two countries. In addition to confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation, the Assembly should also confirm the Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income and Property Taxes. Of course, such an agreement removes the problem of double taxation and creates conditions for more efficient privatisation, eliminates tax disruptions in business, creates fiscal and legal certainty, stimulates investment of capital in one or another country, improves the co-operation of tax authorities and provides equal treatment for all legal persons when it comes to tax in both countries. Of course, the SPS will vote in favour of these two draft legislative projects. The agreements between the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters are essentially identical. It has been well noted that there was no reason not to make this a completely identical text, because the text of the agreement made with the Republic of Poland corresponds fully to us. However, the point is that we will have joint co-operation to enable and provide mutual assistance in customs matters, in order to prevent and combat violations of customs regulations, foreign trade and foreign exchange regulations, to combat trafficking of goods and people, to facilitate and speed up the development of goods and passenger traffic between countries, as well as exchange of experiences of customs authorities. Such agreements on the joint operation of countries are particularly important in preventing drug trafficking and other intoxicating assets that are increasingly taking hold and becoming a global object of trade between many countries, of course, in illegal form. Otherwise, agreements describe procedures in co-operation and manner and co-operation, procedures are prescribed to apply for the verification of suspicious transactions, mutual information and education, joint action to prevent new illicit actions. The SPS will also confirm these two legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7803	I thank Parliamentarian Milan Nikolic. Do any of the heads of parliament or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: DSS-NS Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DS and SRS. A total of 11 MPs. I will give the word to the messenger of the people, Milorad Belic, and the messenger of the people, Milorad Boah, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7804	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, in my discussion, the most I would like to stick to the proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, given that I come from the Kolubar County which has been seriously affected by elemental disasters and really deserves special attention. This loan framework contract was concluded, otherwise signed, on 30 November 2006. Serbia was then granted a 10m-euro loan, aimed at financing reconstruction and reconstruction of facilities and accompanying infrastructures in municipalities hit by large rinks in February and March 2006. The remaining 2.5m euros, as otherwise estimated to be necessary for the implementation of the whole job, in the first phase, will be provided by the government. First, something about the loan itself, although it was also said by previous speakers and authorised representatives from other political parties. It should be said that each debt is the worst friend, as the People's Proverbs says. However, this loan is obtained on fairly favourable terms and, as I understand it, the interest rate will range between 1.5 - 2.7%, as the subsidisation by the lender is foreseen. Then, it should be noted that the severe consequences of last year's rinks and that the state had to react extremely quickly, both at the rink's recovery and on family care. The government's conclusion formed a co-ordination body, and jobs were run by the Ministry of Capital Investments. In the first phase, skating sites in 21 municipalities, whose budgets, we know, were not enough to cover even the most important costs. Because of the urgency of the job, funds from the republican budget were also used. So the government had to react. I would remind myself that when I adopted the budget for this year, I asked for 200 million from the budget reserve, respecting and respecting the fact that it was overstretched, or that the budget reserves were really overloaded, to be immediately identified for the government's emergency response when it came to these slides. Unfortunately, the amendment did not go through, but the government had to react urgently, as citizens in these areas knew how much it meant to them almost daily presence on the ground of the people of the Ministry of Capital Investments, especially Minister Ilic, in order to ensure that the work takes place in quality and time. The borrower received the highest marks for both quality and comfort of built objects. It is very important that the contractors were from these endangered areas, which should not be ignored, given that certain funds and certain revenues remained with the municipalities themselves. Out of the planned 12.5m euros, sixm euros were spent as needed. Serbia's construction directorate will oversee the work, under the authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which means that the bank will quarterlyly send reports on the state of use of the loan, as well as on the progress of the project's financial plan, the progress of the project itself, and on the management of this project. In the second phase of reconstruction that will cover, for the time being, 38 other municipalities, and I say this because almost daily the government and the respective ministries are coming to request or appeal from local self-government seeking help to solve the consequences of the slide, it will take about 32m euros. One such municipality that needs the help of the government and the ministry and who eagerly expects every dinar is also a Valjevo municipality, in which, believe it or not, 1,143 rinks were recorded. It's more than 200 of them. 86 residential and economic facilities were damaged, and another 20 facilities were damaged, which means that they could continue to be inhabited. In the first phase, 10 houses were built, five apartments were divided into the most vulnerable families and one agricultural household was purchased. The value of these investments is 46.5 million dinars. Other damage relates to agricultural land and roads. Owners of registered agricultural households who applied for damage in time received a cash compensation from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. through the Treasury Administration. About 80 roads were damaged, mostly local and regional roads, as well as several city streets. The estimated damage on this basis is 217 million dinars. So far, half of the roads have been renovated, and about 120 million dinars will be needed to resuscitate the remaining roads. In the second phase, 25 housing and 36 economic facilities remain to be rescheduled. 20 objects were designed to prevent further damage, and all major slides were tested for ground and project documentation was carried out. The own funds have been spent, which is why the municipal budget has been rebalanced twice, and all eyes are on the government, because the consequences of the Valjev end caused by a great storm in June last year... It should also be reminded of the consequences of rain, city, large floods; they increased the costs and burdened the municipal budget by another 70 million dinars, and the government received first, emergency aid, of five million dinars. Therefore, it is clear what kind of situation individual municipalities are in, and therefore it is also necessary for the state to manage through obtaining, or signing, loans contracts. I would take the opportunity to remind and appeal to pay attention when it comes to her, it's still a painful subject, and that's the recovery of the 1998 earthquake. Unfortunately, here, almost ten years have passed, but there is still a significant number of objects waiting for reconstruction and reconstruction. We know the state can't be in debt indefinitely. By some times when society will be richer, and when we can charge from insurance companies any damage, even in cases like this, we can do a lot in terms of preventive action. For example, how many locals themselves maintain local roads, or do they cut the coast from which they cannot pass, do they clean the Rigols, the canals, the leaks? Indeed, I am, I believe, and a good part of these messengers, almost every day in the field, we share this torment with the people, and the fact is that after maybe twenty, thirty, forty years, a village gets a decent journey, but when you go around it after a year, it has grown into shore, weeds, weeds are jammed, the canals are full of cheddars. So it's that obligation that's up to the locals, that's to the owners of the fields where these roads pass, and we could really do a lot of things to avoid this kind of damage as a consequence of the elemental disasters. Furthermore, carelessness and negligence are speeding up the decline of the road, and the construction of a new one who knows how long to wait, I said, for decades some parts of Serbia have been waiting on the road. On the other hand, the government will consider providing the villages with municipal and road infrastructure, while farmers get favourable loans to build housing facilities, which would also be one of the solutions. Finally, DSS and New Serbia MPs will vote in favour of the bill, and I expect the other MPs to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7805	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Belic. The People's MP Milorad Buha has the word, and let the MP Dragan Vujadinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first remark I would make, which concerns the agenda of this regular autumn session of the Serbian Parliament, is that we are discussing agreements concluded by our former state, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Why put on the agenda of this session of matter regulated by the former state? Is that a priority? I don't think so, and it can't be. Instead of discussing the implementation of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Law, on a number of systemic and basic laws, we have put on the agenda peripheral agreements, which I do not think are the priority of this assembly. The government made a huge mistake, not the first, and probably not the last, conceiving the agenda of this congregation. When we talk about these five laws, we need to look at a number of provisions and a number of laws that we have so far in practice, which are loans made by the Republic of Serbia with financial organisations, in which we do not have a clear December and all the elements that are important to these contracts. It is the amount of interest in this framework loan agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Bank. This is not an accident, because behind this is the hiding of certain obligations that our country will have to pay, and the government is deliberately entering into such a definition of provisions that are not clear, decided. I will warn you that the Law on Bond Relations defines the obligation of all legal entities, and thus the state, that when they enter into a contractual relationship they clearly define as the subject of the contract interest. It must be clearly defined or quantifiable under the provisions of that law. What is stated in this law is neither specified nor determined. On the other hand, my predecessor here has very nicely exposed everything that has been done by the municipalities in order to resuscitate the glide and resuscitate the effects of the flood. That should have led the finance minister to come out with all that data. Minister, when you enter and enter this assembly, you must come up with clear information on why we took that loan. You didn't sign it, but you had to get that information from your ministry's legal service, from your ministry's administration, and collect all the other information related to all the elements relevant to the implementation of this contract. Neither we now know what is specifically taken for, nor who are users of this loan, how much we have withdrawn funds under the terms of this contract, who are users by name, to see how much it is in the municipalities, to see if there were godfathers, so a little godfather, a little friend, a little google girls, etc. We don't know anything. It is an obligation, for the sake of the public and for the MPs who go to the municipalities and transfer all that is being discussed here, to provide complete, clear, concise information on all the essential elements of this contract. We don't have it. I suggest that the Proposer withdraw this item of the agenda and return it on some other occasions, when we get clear, concise information about all the elements we're talking about. When we talk about confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, we must say that the position of the SRS is to enter into mutual co-operation, etc., but this must be all within the scope of the reciprocity and equality of the parties. We do not have built relationships with Slovenia in a slightly longer period of time that we can talk about being equal and that we can help each other and conduct certain procedures. I will refer only to the disintegration of Yugoslavia when the armed forces of the Republic of Slovenia killed 40 former JNA members, the dove-bearding young, unarmed, left them in fields, on roads, etc. It's a tragic and shameful fate for those young men who died here. On the other hand, we see what Slovenia is doing to us now. It opened in the Republic of Serbia over 500 representative offices. As a Kobac, it has prevailed over the economy of the Republic of Serbia, both in trade, in financial terms and in terms of providing preconditions for the purchase of certain insurance houses, and we see a number of other economic and economic moves aimed at breaking, breaking up the Republic of Serbia and its economy, economy, etc. In financial terms, we have on the market "Novoljubljanska Banka", which entered a few years ago, bought a bank in Novi Sad, developing a business system. On the other hand, in the areas of trade, development and promotion of trade, we have two houses that are seriously engaged in the goods of broad consumption "Mercur" and "Merkator". We expect other trade chains that will enter this market, but we have no reciprocity. Serbian goods cannot go to the Slovenian market. Slovenians don't let that happen. Our trading houses, our trade chains cannot go to the Slovenian market. Where's the reciprocity? You're the bearers of the government and you have to go out with this and ask for support, we can't enter into a treaty with countries that don't respect reciprocity. Slovenia doesn't do that. They don't make up other countries in the environment either. It's an illusion about Croatia and talk about it. When we talk about confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and India in the area of customs matters, mutual assistance in customs matters, we must say that we must turn our interest to third countries. The current government insists on the EU and the direction it is heading towards the EU, however, the external trade business we have with the EU clearly tells us that we cannot be there with our goods. One third of foreign trade traffic is being made with the EU, but only 10% is our exports, and 90% is imports. Mostly goods of broad consumption. We must turn to third countries. Fantastic markets are what the Slovenians used, Russia, Ukraine and third countries. We must turn to Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and India. This is convenient and acceptable from the aspect of providing preconditions for certain equal conditions of performance in the common markets. India as a state certainly needs to make it possible for us and it will make it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7807	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7808	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I've launched thesis - the figures in front of politics, and I've been holding those thesis, in my book, in discussions, and I'd like to ask my colleagues to respect this basic philosophy. So, I repeat, the figures in front of politics. Since I didn't want to get involved yesterday, I'm going to ask the minister to listen to me, in that series of discussions on the Rules of Procedure or Replic, I haven't responded to any numbers, so I'm going to say in the first part very briefly what this is about. A colleague of the Buha says - the deficit in 2006 is 10 million dollars, and this year it will be 12 - 13. So the figures say - 6.27 billion deficits in 2006, and in this year we're all worried, we're all really worried, that the deficit is going to be about $8.5 billion or even 8.5 billion. That's a lot of both, but it's a lot less than you said. That's the first point. The second point, counterpart Topalovic says - boast and revenues from the privatisation of 2.5 billion euros. That's not true. 1750 companies were privatised, 250 broken, privatisation revenues amounting to 3.5 billion euros, meaning a whole billion more than or 40%. It's not that small. Thirdly, counterpart Tabakovic says -- the gross social product was 24.7 billion euros, in 2000 it was 10 billion and the rates were much less. Indeed, but rates are expressed in constant prices and represent an increase in the real rate of gross social product. In that sense, the real gross product increased by 36.6% from 2001 to 2006, and these are nominal figures that took into account the increase in mineral prices and all other products in the country. That makes sense. There's nothing there, but you can't be astounding. You mustn't be surprised. This is 24 billion in nominal prices, and the real price of the growth rate was 5.7, and it was the previous year of 6.2, so the previous 8.4 etc. These are real rates at constant prices. What was a dinar in 2001 was also a dinar in 2004. When you take nominal prices, then you get this data, which is totally regular. For me, it may be worrying that 57.5 euros were at the same pay interval, and now 350, while the average in the countries is around 250 euros. We now have 350 salaries, and there are 250, 260 in BiH, Montenegro. The average salary in Serbia is absolutely that much, net. Next, everyone could read, only we could not believe or believe, the foreign debt of the state on 31 December 2006 was 5.515.000, according to the ino-trustees. When adding an internal debt of 3,836,000,000, the country's total debt is 8,785,000. What's the internal debt? It is 8,785,000 euros, but it is the 3,836.000,000 state's internal debt, where the state has made a commitment, a new state after 5 October, to serve a failed old foreign exchange savings, a Dafiment Bank and a 3.2 billion-euro "Yugocandik". We all know that well. (Momir Markovic, from the post: How many states does it owe? ) It owes 8.8 billion euros at the end, 31. 12, foreign debt plus eight billion private debt. One more question before a concrete debate on the point. Can our goods go to Slovenia or can't? I speak from the experience of the company where I worked. We have a gross export of 200m euros. On the table of net sales prices first place convincing BJRM, Croatia and Slovenia first place at prices, these are rolled and dragged products from copper and brass. One of the largest exporters in Serbia. Second place, Germany, third place Italy, fourth place of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, that is, Central Europe, and finally America and the Middle East, and we cannot enter Russia, because Russia imports from Germany, perhaps our copper, at a more expensive price. Come help us, I'll direct you to our company, to the copper and other companies' rolling stock, to enter Russia when it's a grace, or to India. We can't get near India, we've been sending dozens of instructions, but we can't get in, because there's China that's totally dumping prices to get into the market. So let's talk about numbers. It's easy to say, let's go to brotherly Russia. So let's go, take us to brotherly Russia with our goods. Here, I invite you to my office, come to my director, take us to brother Russia and India. Finally on the agenda. So I'd also like to pray, the figures in front of politics and here. Why do we have to find the black side because of our policy for full preferential loans? Why don't you tell me, colleague, that we're taking preferential loans and reducing the external debt for commercial loans? Let's just say, that's economically fair. All countries that can't get close to the preferential loans of European banks are holding their heads together and just waiting to get in line. It's the same with us. We can't wait to get in line for preferential loans. If we can get back, we need to return the loans we've concluded on commercial elements, with the commercial banks, which the state has concluded. That's what happened. We've cut the external debt. In my opinion, I've written multiple times, not enough. It was supposed to come from privatisation revenues, instead of the NIP, that one part is still going to cut the foreign debt, because when I sell the property I need to pay back the debt, the more debt I pay back, but that's why I should also be in line with the European banks. This is the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Do you understand? Why do you find some hidden flaws for the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, like, she's trying to trick us. You don't have to explain, it's inexplicable. Watch what Article 20 says, there is a projected subsidy of 2.4m euros for interest. On page 20, it's said -- if, however, the interest rate before the subsidy, this 2.4 million or 3% a year, would be lower than the subsidy rate, then the subsidy would be equal to that rate, which means there might be no interest at all. If there's interest on the euro, which is now 4.1 - 4.7, the drop, and then we subtract 3%, there might not be any interest at all. Interests on foreign exchange markets are projected to fall. In that sense, gentlemen, I don't think we really need to talk positively about such a preferential loan. We don't need to speak positively, nor defend such a preferential loan, or we should try to make sure everyone else contracted, or confirmed the loan... There is also a slide two, I urge Mr. Minister that the two slides immediately go to ratification, because many people in the locations where the slides occurred are waiting and this slide is two, a new 20m-euro loan, the same via the C bank, and other preferential loans that should help to resolve certain elementary or other, economical, disasters that have been happening to us for years. Therefore, if we have extra money, we need to repay the commercial loans, reduce the general level of external and public debt. In that sense, my personal suggestion is that we should deal with the subject, talk about the numbers and say we vote for this loan or not vote for this loan, because it's expensive or because it's bad, not because I'm sitting on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7809	The word has been made by MP Jorvanka Tabaković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7810	Mr. Vujadinovicu, my colleagues say that I should have an unfettered internship here because of a bag I carry all the time and data. When it comes to you, I don't know where to start, but let's start with the last one. You say the trend is falling interest. An earthquake in the global financial market, a warning from the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will hit countries with a high current balance of payments deficit, namely Latvia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia. Aware of the risks, countries should reduce the expansion based on credit financing. Local economists acknowledge Serbia's vulnerability to the external deficit and current balance of payments deficits. We must go to more favourable sources of funding, because Serbia will certainly feel the crisis through increasing interest rates and changing the dynamics of capital inflow. So much for the world's financial market and trends. Furthermore, you claim, sir, that the data we present here is not correct. I only have one piece of information for you, even if I don't move on. You received, as I did, a draft budget for 2007, signed by Mr Mladjan Dinkic. Same register, same state, same citizens, same taxpayers. The surplus was 13 billion. Right? Dinkic's surplus in his proposal, before he left, I know exactly what I'm talking about. Coming here to present Mr. Cvetkovic, what did we get? Same state, same bonds, greater than 13 billion dinars. Gentlemen, Serbian citizens, chess mat for you, Mr. Vujadinovicu. Same data, same country, different display. Secondly, don't lead the citizens astray. Mr Topalovic tells you - privatisation and income of two billion and 600m euros; the real business sector, and you add up banks, and with banks it is 3.5. I didn't come out here to talk, it's very official data. So, don't, in part, share the information that you question the facts that we bring here, and our facts are the official sources of this country, which are very meaningfully showing inflation data and all the other data. The fact that you presented data on the internal debt on December 31st disagrees with the government's data, we received a consolidated report the day before yesterday, and it's completely different. One thing I'm telling you, it's falsely conveying social product information to make public spending with its participation look smaller. I argue, and all economists with professional honesty will confirm that in 2003, when the calculation methodology was changed, trade chains and financial services entered into account, which was not the case until then. So, behind every piece of information that my colleagues and I have presented, there are facts and they're not worth your pink glasses absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7811	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7812	Article 226. I'm looking for an explanation and a notice. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to have today on the agenda a bill confirming the agreement between Serbia and Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, but it has offered me something else. To calm down a little, the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, so I'll continue. Mrs. Kolundjia, this is happening to you, it really doesn't make sense that with your MPs... Are you going to stop them from discussing and calming down, what you're going to do, working at a Parliament club, but don't be here, it doesn't make sense. At least you're someone who respects order and who's always had such manners, but you've been ruined by these around you. So this has offered me something else, to get an explanation from the government, especially that part of it that she did and it makes so-called. The national coalition before the election claimed that it would increase our standard. The billboards were written – Serbia, happy and satisfied, fertile and fertile. Remember their billboards. How, then, they explain that in Serbia, life supplies are the most expensive in the region, that in Serbia basic life supplies are 22% more expensive than in Slovenia with which we now ratify this agreement, in Slovenia where wages are 2.5 times higher than in Serbia and four times the gross national income. Don't tell us about the happy future. It's a shame and a shame. So, at the time of this government, and according to the results of European statistics, Eurostat, it is not the improvisation of Vladan Batic or the Democratic Party of Serbia but the most measured institution in Europe has published these data, I repeat again, that in Serbia basic life supplies are the most expensive in the region. That's one thing. Secondly, I am asking Mr. Jocic's Home Secretary, and I was withdrawn from Mr. Cvetkovic's presence because I mentioned it in my own time, it has nothing to do with the question and with Mr. Cvetkovic... At the time, a committee member at the Municipality of Loznica Mr. Milivove Andrić provided me with information, I presented this paper here, on the abuses and nepotism of the Municipality of Loznica President related to employment at the level of the Customs Administration through then-general director of the Customs Administration of Mr. Dragan Jerinić. I presented that document and that data. The Director of Customs Administration has been replaced. The president of the Municipality of Loznica will be the president of the municipality for a little while. It's not the subject, it's the man who delivered this data to me that happens the most unpleasant things. First, he had an explosive device set up in front of the house in 2005 because the opposition at both republican and local, municipal level, in 2005, heavy theft occurred in 2006, was beaten up, and two cars were burned in front of the house a few days ago. Jocic has been informed, the chief of police has been informed. Why do those who publicly, openly state their opposition position and tell the truth have to suffer such consequences, and what has the police done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7813	I thank Mr. Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7814	Article 101. My colleague Tabakovic criticized me, and in fact we said the same thing, except I said that we should support preferential loans, and that total debt is reduced, as far as possible, from privatisation incomes and other incomes. Therefore, why we argue about preferential loans, which everyone asks for and everyone asks for them. Two, I said that the expectation that very dynamic, intensely growing interest rates on the foreign exchange market will decrease in the future when this is paid off, so maybe interest on this loan will be zero. Under three, I'm not wearing pink, I'm wearing regular glasses to better see the numbers; just to better see the numbers, I'm wearing regular glasses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7815	I thank Mr. Dragan Vujadinovic. National MP Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7816	Of course, pink glasses were a metaphor for seeing beautiful realities. There's only one thing I don't understand. You call the preferential loan the one where the minister didn't even give us the usefulness of this loan, or the data on the use of the loan from this same financier. Why are you protecting him? He's got infrastructure. I said, the Privatisation Agency, for example, where he worked, has 250 employees and hundreds of millions of euros in revenues from the privatisation fee. You know the Treasury Office is in the state. They run the public debt management business which, by law, is not my whim, required to tell us. Why am I asking? Well, remember, we haven't discussed the 2006 final budget bill here yet, but I made it clear that we, as a state of Serbia, were poor, with prices like this, with this number of unemployed, paid a billion dinars of criminal interest on unreported tranches of approved loans. So, the government didn't convince me that she's in debt as a good host, and she's in charge of us. I'm not asking for anything over what the law commits, and it's a pure account of whether these loans are really worth it or what they're already invested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7817	I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7818	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague mentions preferential loans. Give it to us. Let them give us. The European banks have entered our country. European banks place their funds in European countries ranging from three to five percent. We have the same banks from 15 to 25. I have here an administrative order I signed as director of the company this morning, photocopied. It's a loan from the Sosite General Bank for two years. The monthly interest rate is 2 percent. I'll bring it to you personally even with 2.2%. Now, the same European banks that place 15 - 25 and even more in Croatia place between 8 and 12 in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 12 to 18. Are we even? Can we be even? And in their own state, I say, between 4 and 6%, even lower. Where's the crime? We have to say it. I emphasized that in one of my discussions. We place our foreign exchange reserves, we say, on the credit rating side of the state at interest, the governor told us the other day, 4 out of 5.5%. The banks that receive our foreign reserve funds are placed across foreign banks here, and we will document that by the statement of one foreign bank director, they get those funds at an interest rate of 6% to 8%, and we, our citizens, are placed between 12, 15 and 25 percent, even more. What's that? It's a robbery of this people. This people, who are hungry for credit, live in a very difficult state. He's forced to take those loans. But where does he place them? Where do they place those loans? They place them for the goods of broad consumption. Whose stuff is that? It's import goods, from countries that place us with these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7819	I thank Ambassador Milorad Buhi. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you of one truth in the context of this debate so far by my colleague Mr. Tabakovic 15 days ago, if you remember, that money today is the most murderous weapon. These foreign banks, founded with the help of the current government and the former and current Minister Dinkic and Governor Jelasic, who operate under favourable domestic conditions not only to double-sell money coming from their countries of origin, but rather, in the right sense, lead Serbian citizens into debt slavery. The fact that Jelasic came to care for the pockets of our citizens by limiting these loans that he spoke of by his colleague Buha for two years doesn't mean anything, because in the same way, through other kinds of consumer credits, with extremely high interest than anywhere in the surrounding countries, our citizens come into the situation that each day owes them more, and in their homes and households they have nothing tangible, perhaps some TV, some new technical device, and it took 15-20 years, it is mostly for the settlement of high municipal accounts, for the naked existence, for schooling children, because the year's enrolment in colleges for those who are not in budget funds of 1,500 euros and above, depends on what colleges are being done. Therefore, it is clear, obviously, and these are the figures that are inexorable, as well as the recent combination of the price of life supplies. To leave Slovenians and these countries in the region, so-called Southeast Europe, here we were last week as a delegation of our parliament in France, almost even prices, and lower, individual food products in France, with such incomes and with such profits and with such pensions compared to Serbia where... According to Radeta's colleague, say where people have 350 euros in salary, where it's average and how many people it is. There may be, but how much is it compared to the number of residents and active residents? We need to talk today about confirming several agreements that have been translated into a form of law which, since there are ten of you in the hall, the minister also says, contributes to the stability and development of Serbia's economic policy. It is true only in the work of two agreements with India, one of the most human countries on the planet, which is truly a friendly ally of all these years, decades, and especially in this situation when we are fighting for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, our country and our people. I must remind you that this is just a dead letter to you on paper, and I will now explain to you, as well as to the citizens, that you are only doing this pro form because someone, namely Ivanovic, signed these two agreements on behalf of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, on the initiative of the Indian government, in New Delhi on 7 February 2006. Futuristically, these two agreements can also have positive effects on the Serbian economy and on the better lives and standards of our residents, especially in the direct foreign investment sector, but for you it is just something that is written and that you are not, in an institutional sense, trying to really work. That it's true it says that Wolf Jeremic still hasn't gone to India for an official visit as foreign minister, which he himself admitted to me in an informal conversation, when he boasted to me -- you know how many countries I've visited in two months. I say, how much. He says 20. I say, come on, order. He started all around, he was in Portugal yesterday. I ask him, have you been to Russia? He says I'm not. I'm asking-- have you been to China? He says I'm not. Have you been to India? I didn't. Have you been to Indonesia? I didn't. What did you ask and whom did you ask for help to help us defend Kosovo and Metohija and help us with our investments? All of this is nice, because most of the time, responsible people from that country, from India, participated in writing these agreements, but in the right sense of the word, the state is doing nothing, nor is it taking clear steps to attract the Indian government and their investors to come to our country. That it is true tells the information that the days of India are organised in Serbia, in the heart of Serbia. The event will take place in early December and will last eight days, two days in Belgrade and six days in Kragujevac. One gentleman whose name I don't want to mention that it wouldn't be in the function of a commercial, which is a successful Kragujean entrepreneur, a businessman, has, in a sense, assumed the role of the state. For many years now, he has been tied to his business for the Indian market and through numerous knowledge that builds up in this business relationship (or else he is a graduate education economist) he has realized that it is a country that, in the expansion of the policy of globalism conducted by America and Western Europe, he certainly intends to invest in the world market and on the market of Europe, which we are also counting on, because this is the Indian government's strategic decision two years ago. In fact, since they have experienced a fantastic expansion of economic growth in the past few years through the construction of a huge number of industrial parks, as small, small and medium-sized enterprises as the state has experienced a fantastic expansion of economic growth, industrial growth, which is at an annual level of 8.6%, with a tendency to be bigger and bigger, they realize that the country, and this is the precise data that I have, with a billion and 200 million inhabitants, who have employed 20 million of their citizens over the past few years, can also play a significant role in Europe and in our part of Europe, in the region, as you like to say. They decided to invest in our country out of these funds to be placed on the European and world market, of 220 billion dollars. Of course, there was no induction of such a species on the Serbian side, nor were large companies from India advertised in our chambers of commerce, as Serbia, I believe, and the city of Belgrade. Then these individuals, like this gentleman who, in the right sense, is the manager of the entire project to organise the day of India in the heart of Serbia, that is, in Belgrade and in Kragujevac, decided to take matters into their own hands. Of course, the Indian ambassador helped them, and without that, it would not be possible. On this occasion, on behalf of the SRS, and above all the citizens of Kragujevac (which I expect will be of considerable benefit in economic terms), I thank his Excellency Mr. Svarup for having heard so much that, despite the apparent inability of the current government, what we have as a people and in the Mediterranean industry, both in the automotive industry and in the available capacities, or in the already released factory halls, a group of businessmen is interested. It's not a small group, it's one that precedes the expansion of India's industrial growth. They came to Serbia and in the form of round tables and direct negotiations, both with the business leadership of the flag group and with other business entities of our capital, Kragujevac and other cities, made the first concrete contacts in that, we hope and believe, future successful communication. So much for your involvement and your inability to go to such friendly countries and that they come and invest in our market and that we have agreements that will work... A colleague just mentioned Russia and said, "Take us there." We will, dearly we will, because your current minister, as well as the minister in the first Dossovna government, and later the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Slobodan Milosavljevic, was unable to do so. Our businessmen tried in 2004 – the witness of these events was also Mr. Goran Cvetanović, as the then president of SO Leskovac, Dr. Branislav Blazic, as president of the Kikinda municipality – at a business fair organised in Moscow to promote Serbian economy, our cities and what we have in the area of future Brownfield and Greenfield projects for potential investors, but it was experienced, in the right sense of words, failure, disaster, because the state there went uninterested and unprepared. You began to be interested only when you realized that such countries, India, Indonesia, China and all those who today are fighting against the policies of globalism can help us to preserve and defend Kosovo and Metohija. How illusory that you are only talking about EU integrations suggests that last week two resolutions were held at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the agenda. One of them was saying... Even, for your information, Britain's Tony Lloyd has made a report on globalisation, the new world order and social policy in Europe, and how this affects European countries, what all countries are suffering because of such a policy of America, in which certain Western companies are in the interest of such a policy that America is conducting in the process of globalisation. The second resolution referred to the current co-operation of OECD member states, in fact, was called OECD and World Policy. The OECD Secretary General addressed us at the Council of Europe last Friday, asking us to do everything through our countries and through a committee dealing with this issue, to invite Russia, India and China to become members of this world organisation. What do they want it for? Because of the fact that the economy of these countries is in such expansion and that it is necessary, just like India to come to this market and to the whole of Europe, and that other European countries and their industries work together with these countries. Little known data prepared by Mr. Kragujevac, in collaboration with his Excellency Mr. Svarup, are more than impressive when it comes to complete industrial policy and the economy of India. These facts are interesting, but they are very little available to our public. I will invite you, as well as other citizens, to be interested and to use the possibility that via the website www.india-serbia.org you will receive additional information about the possibility of connecting our and these many people and friends countries. The fact is that the Indian telecommunications network and their technology are, in that sense, one of the best in the world and that they could not have access to our market until now because of Hamovic, Lazarevic and other tycoons held by current DS and DSS authorities. The state monopoly in various areas in our country is so present that the issue, when these people come in early December and when they express their readiness and goodwill, which I believe will break through and will oppose the pharmaceutical mafia led by Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. Indian drugs and their pharmaceutical industry are now taking... (President: Natasha, do not use hard words. )......................................................................................................... One of the leading places in the world. As for their medicines, and how little they are present on our market, because in the process of licensing new medicines, which is also a witness to my distinguished colleague, Professor Milet Poscurica, since he is currently working on a single project himself, the expert commission, the agency that makes a license for large money at our only pharmaceutical company, therefore, to examine the market, all in order to put the medicine into operation. You have an example, such a cure, one of them, I don't want to mention it because it's mostly for rheum, for this kind of pain, probably most of you are using, and it's coming from the Indian market right now. What more do you want? Can we then talk about modern technologies coming from only European Union countries? Of course not, because they come from China too, Russia. We are a country that needs to be clearly defined and co-operated with the whole world. The question is how long these two agreements will work, because I don't believe it will be during your reign. That is why I believe that progress in this regard, and the real economic recovery of Serbia and the arrival of these investments from these countries, such as India will come at the moment when Mr Tomislav Nikolic wins the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. He was the only one hearing that on several occasions received accredited ambassadors from these countries and discussed such co-operation and the most important fact that they help our country preserve its territorial integrity. As for the future sale of the Zastava car factory, I want to tell you that India is one of the countries known for industrial parks, where components are produced for the largest auto-industry in the world, and it is one of the countries where some large companies are present. I believe that, in this sense, those troubled workers, all the other cities and the entire industry in our country will be fortunate to have someone open not only to our market, but to make a car that can, in the future, produce through strategic production and investment in the flag, which can, with its own cubicity and appearance and above all, compete on a really strong world market, to choose to do so by the end of this year, especially in those days, because one day it is dedicated only to that – investing in the car industry in Kragujevac, they do so in the most favourable way for our country and for our people. These are just some of the data I've provided because of the fact that I want to leave it to other colleagues of the time to talk about it. I would really like to remind you that, in addition to his Excellency, Russian Ambassador Alexeiev spoke several times on several occasions, almost every public level and Ambassador Svarup spoke of Kosovo and Metohija as an inalienable part of Serbia and that Resolution 1244 must be respected. How much of this today, so in 2007, fits into that story that the SRS has been up to since the early 1990s, that we have to watch who our traditional friends are, that in that sense we have to privatise our company... Where good luck is that then the directors at the flag, and the owners, listened to our president, so that the car factory was privatized back in 1991. Today, even though these countries, therefore, your friends who did not want well for our people and the state, would have imposed sanctions in 1992, we would still have continued industrial development and would have maintained our auto-industry. Where would we end up if, say, India, Japan or Korea had invested huge billions at that time. I must tell you that their goal in the next 10 years is to invest 1.5 million dollars in the industry, or in the development of European countries. Mr. Chairman, in the end, I want to remind him of what we have been talking about for 17 years, to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate our President, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, to wish him good health and to continue to fight with the new world order and globalists in the Hague casamat. I'm sure he'll do it there, and we, for Serbia's sake, and for what we promised him, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7821	I join the cards, wishing to spend the next birthday with my family. The word has been made by MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to have to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of my discussion, and that's Rule 93. I'm sure it wasn't malicious. I think there's been a misunderstanding, and that's why I haven't heard from you before. Article 93 paragraph 2 says – a report by the committee responsible, which has the right to speak once for up to 10 minutes, and during the search, has the right to receive another word over the five-minute line. Unfortunately for me, the word was taken from me without taking advantage of my time. But maybe that's a good thing, because I'm going to use and tie my discussion to the previous one, to answer some of the questions my fellow MPs have asked in their previous discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7823	I apologize to my colleague Dejan, it wasn't her intention. He knows I'd like to talk about it a lot more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7824	I'm aware of that, there's been a lot of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I know it certainly wasn't malicious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7825	We'll be right back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7826	First, I would like to say to the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, who asked whether all the slides were recorded on the territory of the Republic of Serbia -- unfortunately, they are not. In March 2006, when the first phase started, there were 20, and at this point, as my fellow MP Belic said, there were 38. The reason why not all the slides are recorded is exactly what I said, that the estimates of the necessary funds of endangered municipalities work based on the delivery of municipal commissions. Neither the government nor the Co-ordination Body of the Government nor the Ministry of Infrastructure are able to know about the slides if local self-governments have not responded in time and have done their job properly. In the then interrupted discussion, I wanted to list the municipalities that entered the first stage, which is these 20. When I read about the municipalities (I would not strangle you with many numbers, numbers are not life, but still show the real state of things on the ground), when we see which 20 municipalities, you will see that there is no political background, that these are municipalities where the authorities and the opposition and positions in the republican parliament, and also in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For the simple reason that disaster chooses neither power nor opposition simply hits one country and one nation. I have already mentioned the municipality of Trstenik, which has received significant funds, at this time 341,000 euros, for geotechnical research, for the purchase of land for the construction of new houses, for the construction of an internal traffic station, for the construction of plumbing and sewerage, for the restoration of the infrastructure facility in the Bodanje village area, for the construction of an electrical network, for the destruction and clearing of broken houses, which was very important at that time. The Brus municipality has been doing geotechnical research and it is projected to build 20 new facilities. The municipality of Mininica -- it envisions building seven new houses, resuscitation on water and sewer facilities, the rehabilitation of local roads in the length of 283 metres, the construction of four new bridges. The municipality of Koceljeva -- it envisions building 14 new houses, rehabilitating the water and sewers facility, resuscitation of the power grid, resuscitation of local roads within 400 metres. The municipality of Valjevo -- it envisions the construction of 27 new houses, the rehabilitation of local roads in the length of 1000 meters. So I don't bother you with a lot of numbers, I'll just count the municipalities. Municipality of Osecina - 16 new houses, Ljig - 10 new houses, Čačak - 10 new houses, Nis - 10 new houses, Leskovac - dam recovery on the Presecina lake, local roads, Požega - construction of 3 new houses, Ljubovija - construction of 10 new houses, Novi Pazar - 14 new houses, Kruševac - 20, Kraljevo - 20, Kragujevac - 2, Majdanpe - 10, Kosjerić - rehabilitation of local roads, Lucani - 13 new houses, Gornji Milanovac - 20. The project, dynamically, would have to be completed in the first phase by the end of 2007. Something about the construction of finance, although a lot has been said, perhaps some of the ambiguities expressed by the representatives of the SRS, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, will be clarified. I'm sorry to have a synthetic table in the excel, where there's every penny that's gone, but it would take us a lot of time to tell us where he's gone and what's the occasion, but something in the global. The planned financing of the reconstruction and removal project resulting from active slides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, phase one: the government's own participation is two and a half million, the C Bank's loan is 10 million, a total of 12 and a half million euros; 80% of the funds of 10m euros, which will be provided through the Bank's credit line for the development of the CEP Council of Europe. Those funds will finance 80% of the total pre-account value. VAT financing is not foreseen for this amount. I'm deliberately undermining it. Participation at 20% is an investment by the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Commission for Fundamental Accidents, has already been realised. The total amount of funds was allocated by the government's decision on threatened municipalities and amounted to 190m dinars, i.e. 2,183,908 euros. The remainder of 20% of the necessary participation in total costs will be realised through the Ministry of Infrastructure. I wouldn't tell you about the dynamics of project realization, except to repeat that the first phase is scheduled to end by 31 December 2007. I'd like to do one more thing. Out of all the above, total contracted works are created to build 12,132 gross square metres of residential area, approximately 9,201,174 euros. The total number of performers is 82. I'd like to point out that more than 90% of the selected contractors are from the local field, so local self-government where the slides are located. Up until now, the total has been paid to performers for 9,242 gross meters square. Along with the accompanying municipal, electrical and road infrastructure and the purchase of finished apartments, which has already been discussed, is 693,159,139,40 dinars or approximately 8,664,489 euros. The rest of the project awaits the realisation of credit funds. From all ahead, I appeal, because the rink does not choose politics and does not watch who is in power in the local community, I urge all MPs to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7827	Mrs. Master Jorvanka Tabakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7828	Indeed, as I say, I listen so closely. It is inadmissible to say -- the vagueness of colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party. We have asked very clearly and precisely that the minister for the funds already used for other purposes gives us a report on how the money was used by this financier named the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. But what I was going to ask, you brought it up yourself. It's interesting that 40% of the advances that could have been used under this agreement that we still have to ratify, which could have been used 18 months from the loan date, the date of approval according to the text we got is 6. Nine. 2006, so, the deadline for starting the withdrawal is March 2008, and you've already spent 40% of your advances and you've brought a way here to whom, as much as what. That's because you don't seem to understand exactly what we were looking for from this pay phone. I said this is a bank that doesn't have political conditions and is one of the most positive financiers in that sense. The rinks need an emergency response and a means to do so. You can't protect the minister, you can't protect the government from the obligation to file a report on the funds already used. It's just so much about misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7829	I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go, Mr. Perjanic, but briefly, then we'll give it a break by 3:00. The first speaker at 3:00 will be MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7830	I'm sorry if we didn't get along well. You just said what I thought - that skates and elemental disasters are something that can't wait. I have to admit right away, I've never run away from it, that's what I said and when I started, that I'm not a financial expert and that my job is construction and urbanism. I'll just tell you what I know, and I think you know it as an economist, just another piece of information. I will read to you: "The government of the Republic of Serbia in its 28th conclusion 4. In 2005, it redeployed special funds, and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe agreed on such a thing. "That's what I know and what I got from the report as chairman of the Committee of the Building Directorate of Serbia's Management, which is overseeing or, as you would say, monitoring this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7831	I thank my colleague Perjanic. I'm taking a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7833	Article 225, Section 1: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. "Article 226, concerns you, Mr. President of the Assembly: "The National MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, Minister and Officers in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. " (President: here you go. You have three minutes. We're going straight to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Dulic, I ask you to ask Dragan Jocic, the minister of police, to inform us as soon as possible of an event that took place in Sapac tonight. Yesterday, Serbian Radical Party MP Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic here, within these items of the agenda that concerned some agreements concerning corruption, spoke of corruption affairs in Sapac, mentioned several companies from Sapac, mentioned the names of several tycoons from Sapac, some of the facts he had as a national MP. Tonight at 3:00, someone called him on his home phone and threatened him. Someone called him, of course he doesn't know, nor can he claim to be one of those people he mentioned yesterday, but it seems logical to us that he did. So, called, threatened, cursed and several times during the night harassed him. So I ask you, as president of the National Assembly, to protect the integrity of every MP, to ask Mr. Jocic for an urgent response and to inform the MPs about it. It is our right, and I have brought this out primarily for the public, so that the citizens of Serbia know that they are trying to prevent MPs from presenting facts about some alarming conditions in our society and in our country. Unfortunately, corruption, tycoons, the corruption government, that's what's wrong with Serbia, that's what's destroying Serbia, and that's what has to get in the way. Serbian Radical Party MPs are absolutely ready to oppose any criminal action and any criminal work in the country. Of course, we will do so when we are in power, and until then we will regularly inform the public and the authorities. There's room here for a public prosecutor's reaction. So we Serbian radicals are not seeking any mercy, nor are we afraid of such threats, we are ready for each of our MPs to protect, but it is our party matter, and your national obligation is to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7834	Thank you. We will urgently send this question to Minister Jocic, thank you for pointing to the problem. The word has the People's MP Marko Milenkovic, and let the MP Milan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is, at the very least, harmful to our country and citizens because of the extremely unfavourable conditions of payment of 10m euros. I repeat, ten million euros. The proposal that lies before us today is ultimately undefined when it comes to the amount of the tranche, the interest rate, the payment date and the return period to be determined later on by fax. Is there any MP among you who will take credit under such conditions? Is there any Serbian citizen who will be in charge of this? Except, of course, those who don't plan on returning. Maybe you're not thinking of returning this loan, you've set the grace period for five years. You know that when the time of payment comes, this loan will pay off the SRS, but that's why many of you will be able to see the Assembly only on the postcard and on TV. The Eurobor rate to be applied during the repayment of this loan is from the moment of agreement between the government of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, on July 31st 2006, and how it increased, as more than 14 months have passed since then. We wonder how reasonable it is to continue to realise this loan and the additional responsibility of Serbia and its citizens. Besides, who guarantees us the rational distribution of these funds? You haven't even given us an adequate report where and in what way the money will be directed for the slides, if we know from practice how many times the amount of money has been lost by the time they reach the damaged people and that no one has responded to the authorities. Already through budget projections, but with these new loans, the government has clearly defined its intentions in the way it wants to run this country. In new responsibilities, in a direct increase in foreign debt, in creating mega-debts from the state. Look at how far we've been brought. Only the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development since the opening of its office in Belgrade in 2001 has so far singled out loans of over a billion euros. In 2001, you took 100m euros for Serbia's Elektroprivreda. A year later, 76m euros for road reconstruction. In 2005, the U.S. 72m euros for the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. In 2006 60m euros for the Serbian Railways. I only listed these huge loans of over 60 million euros. While the average Serbian citizen cannot imagine 100 euros in his pocket, your government already agreed three months ago with the European Investment Bank a new debt, out of a new 66m-euro loan to repair Belgrade's Gazela and regional roads and bridges, and another 25m euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At the same time, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic of the second bank's President, Zana Limera, "heroski" has made 260m euros in loans for four subsequent projects. It's really a genius who by the bank made a loan that his people would be poor because it wasn't invested in production, and the bank would certainly make a profit. Already today, you are asking the MPs to confirm a new 10m-euro loan. Instead of making significant savings and solving our problems with our own resources, destroying corruption, strengthening our economy, hiring people, building Serbia, it is increasingly leading us into debt slavery. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for further borrowing of its people and state. When it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovenia on mutual assistance, I stress assistance in customs matters, I ask you what kind of assistance is there when Slovenia openly advocates Kosovo and Metohija independence? How much help Slovenia offers and provides demonstrates the recent statements made by their Foreign Minister, Rupel, who has moved faster and better to support Ahtisaari's plan. He said, quote, "We think there's no better suggestion than Ahtisaari's. "Then, at the counselling of French diplomacy, Rupel said Kosovo's status during Yugoslavia was practically equal to the status of the republic. Then it continues, quotes: "In the extreme case, partition in Kosovo could happen in itself as soon as Kosovo unilaterally declares independence. "So, he does not say there must be a unilateral declaration, but it will happen when it unilaterally declares independence, and would also introduce special border regimes between the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo. Was Rupel there as Thaci's negotiator, the representative? Where did he get the right, where did he get the courage to do this? Prime Minister Janez Jansa promises on August 28th to Ceku that Slovenia will be the first country in the world to recognise Kosovo's independence, even if the European Union does not achieve unity on this issue. Can we, as a serious state, remain silent over these facts? I, Rupela and Janshu, from the position of their machiavelistic assets and interests, fully understand, but I don't understand your midnight government. What is the government doing in response to all this? I'll tell you now. The government is developing bilateral economic, trade relations with Slovenia, recording a 40m-euro deficit in 2006, with $99m imports. Also on the parliamentary issue of counterpart Zdravko Topalovic, the government responds that it is satisfied with the movement and structure of the trade between the two countries. Serbian citizens are not satisfied, as in Serbia, it is becoming increasingly difficult to live, as all of this is peeled on their backs and heads, while Serbia is slowly becoming an economic colony.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7836	The People's MP Milan Vukovic has the word, and let the MP Sasa Valjarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7837	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the chairman, I would like to talk about the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, in a technical sense. As a member of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, which supported this law, although it is not resolutely in charge, since there was controversy about the height and type of borrowing, I think it is certainly necessary to support this law. We also heard from Mr Vujadinovic and other MPs, and the minister himself said in his exposé that this type of loan is extremely favourable. It is an elementary accident, which is neither ordered nor expected, and in any case, the state must take care of its citizen, the taxpayers. The state reacted the way it reacted. Now I ask the question, is that November 2006, are we in 2007... According to that information that we had on the Committee on Urbanism and Building, it joined the recovery, we heard here and from previous speakers that some 28 buildings were built or 23, maybe I'm not true. This is obviously from budget funds, and the ratification of this contract is expected to take effect and could be used. It's about 280 housing facilities, primarily for the endangered population. I must remind you, it was the government of capitalist, communist, socialist, elemental disasters in the laws of construction, planning and construction that always meant that the consequences of which someone's life was threatened, the way they lived. Thus, according to the current Law on Planning and Construction, as well as those that were in force in the previous countries in which we lived, it is understood that it must always react without delay, and then that these consequences should be removed through, among other things, such financial injections and loans that should enable citizens who are at risk of a better life in the coming period. I think this is another proof, and in that part, I agree, perhaps, with speakers that Serbia is not exactly in a position to do anything with its budget, and that connects to not being rich enough to buy cheap things. We should also discuss how to deal with the next period of planning documentation, map-making of the slide and all those neural points that need to be based on the Space Plan of Serbia, which was adopted in 1997. I think that with one strategy for Serbia's development, the development of spatial plans of municipalities should certainly list all these areas where such types of natural disasters may occur and thus warn similar things in the next period. This implies making legislation according to European standards. I think that in the next period, the Ministry of Finance, the government and the resolution ministry that should be doing these legal projects in the area of planning and construction should make a significant step. It may be demagogue to say at this point, but it would be more important to be in charge of drawing up these planning documents, because we will obviously not always have enough resources to build all municipalities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia than our budgets, but rather it should be a state story run through the rest of the ministry, in order for the facilities to be built only in those areas where they do not appear, in this case, the rinks. Elemental disasters should not wait and should not be shamed with all the knowledge that has today's modern world, and I am sure there are exceptional experts in Serbia, organisations, institutes in the area to respond. This is not only about residential facilities, it should not be forgotten, but also about the restoration of the infrastructure that connects these facilities, which is about 20 and some thousand euros per object, so that this law should be supported, and the realization should be monitored through all those principles as the realisation of this loan is foreseen. I don't think it's right for the Parliament to discuss it. He was the Committee on Urbanism and Building where they could get closer information. The members of a political organisation do not attend this committee, so they did not have these relevant facts heard here today at the plenary session. In any case, I think all MPs, for the sake of citizens of Serbia who have suffered in multiple municipalities, should support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7838	Replica, MP for the People's Republic of Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7839	My fellow MP, I do not know if you attended the afternoon debate; I am not obliged to replicate on behalf of a colleague who is chairman of the Committee on Urbanism, but it is indeed collegiate to say that the colleague said that the funds were invested, but not as you think from the budget, but from the funds of the loan for other purposes, with the consent of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, because of the urgency, the funds were authorised to be used to resuscitate the glide, and before the ratification of this agreement. It's clear that you're not mistaken about the source of the funds. What you're saying gives me the right to say now what I failed to say at 14 hours, because the debate was over before the break. So, Mr. Minister, you are the government's rapporteur, you are responsible for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, because in your composition, the Public Debt Administration, not the Infrastructure, Construction or any other organisation that has provided more precise information along with the Urbanism Committee. Dear fellow Members, every MP has the right to know the elements of the borrowing, not just the members of the Committee. So it doesn't matter who took part in the work of that committee. The information that the Committee on Urbanism has and has asked for and received from the Directorate, who the administrator is, on condition that I say, this loan is not a way to meet all MPs with the elements of the loan. What the directorate delivered had to deliver to the finance minister, who is here in front of the government to inform all of us equally. Now, who's in front of the coalition in the Directorate, who's at the Ministry, what kind of an intra-party agreement is it really wouldn't be the turn to put up with all of us. Citizens must have information about this, and in this sense I really do ask that, regardless of which directorate he has headed, they get to know the finance minister about the elements that we need to present here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7840	The word is made by MP Milan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7841	Article 104, the dignity of MPs and the National Assembly. Given Mrs Tabakovic's exposure, and especially when she talks to me as "a dear colleague", I take it ironically and in that sense I think that the injured article is Article 104(1), the dignity of the MPs, and since I am an MP in this room and out of this room, I would like to give an explanation. I don't think the benefits of a job and knowledge are just carried in a bag. There's someone wearing it in their head. It's proof that I've been following this session all day, whether I'm in the O.R. or not, because you mentioned here that your colleagues are telling you that you should have a certified internship because you're wearing a full bag of documents to prepare yourself well. I carry a lot of things in my head, and today I've brought only this law. It's on one side. On the other hand, whether or not it's been spent, I'm not an economist to fencing with you here in terms of credit convenience, but in any case, if the credit is realised in tranches, if six million euros have been spent so far, that means that the first tranche, with the necessary documentation in the trusted situations of the buildings, etc., will be withdrawn very quickly, which means the period for which the state is due, on which the interest is calculated, will be reduced by the principal that remains to be used further. The document that all MPs have here under this bill shows that it is envisaged how the implementation of this loan is documented and continued borrowing, the premiums on which the tranches are withdrawn, etc. I didn't want to hold back and bother the public, the assembly and everything else, and otherwise, I'm a little bit familiar with that area of yours that you keep in your purse. On the other hand, I would like to repeat, perhaps to clarify, when it comes to the elemental accident, the consequences are removed without obtaining appropriate documents in terms of building permits, planning documents, etc. I think it is necessary for Serbia to draw up a modern spatial plan with a development strategy, with a spatial plan of the municipality, so whoever is in power, when a elemental disaster occurs, in line with these planning documents to determine where it will be built and done, and when the flood is withdrawn, then normally everything goes back to totally legal flows as if it was just building an object from the beginning. For this reason, I think it's a good thing that 23 houses were made, I don't know the quality of the funds that are in those six million euros... I think we should make this happen as soon as possible and move into the application of this law to make use of these favourable means.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7842	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Vjerica Radeta and then the National MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7843	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 104 paragraph 2: "The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. "A colleague Vukovic, if I remember his last name correctly, did not respect the terms of this member, and you, Mr. President of the Assembly, did not respond. You were under obligation, especially after that monologue this morning, that you would strictly adhere to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. It's inadmissible, colleague, your behavior, your comment. I know, of course, that you're all obsessed with the knowledge of our dear colleague Jorgenka Tabaković's economy, that you have a complex of her appearance in this place, but we really can't help you here. It's amazing that it hurt you or that you realized that it was ironic because a colleague of Jorgovanka said "my fellow." I often say "my colleagues" from this place too, and there's really nothing ironic about it. You know, the difference between us and you is that we Serbian radicals don't know that we hate each other. You've hated it since October 5, 2000, you're sorry for October 6th, and you even show it that way. At the very least, your behavior is ungentlemanic. Since Mr. President of the Assembly in the afternoon part of the session obviously has no intention of applying the Rules of Procedure, I am going to risk now fully conscious of hurting Article 104, Article 2. The Rules of Procedure so that directly to you, colleague, I tell you that Jorgenka Tabakovic carries documentation in her bag, she has a lot of knowledge, as you saw, and in your head, and having a big head doesn't mean you have a big brain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7844	I think your answer was in line with my colleague Vukovic's comment. You exchanged two comments and I think she can stay on it. You have the right to respond, so I suggest we continue the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7845	My dear colleague, my irony and cynicism is not a foreigner, I am a very direct person, so I tell everyone what I think, but you, a colleague, have no other reason to remain remembered and recorded, thinking that something that's called "spiritual," directed to me, will be interesting today... Believe me, I don't hold on to what you said at all. I've proven my intelligence, my intelligence and my knowledge many times, and at least you're someone I can prove it to. I, not wanting to get up here with you about it, have referred you to an answer you haven't heard. So the problem is bigger than I thought. You have a problem with attention. The colleague said that the funds already spent by the Government's approval and conclusion and approval of the Development Bank from another loan granted for other purposes were renamed for this purpose for urgency, which no one questions. What can I do? Here we want to be constructive. The fact that a colleague has a problem with not being able to follow, that's his business. Let me tell you, now you're opening a special question for me here. If the exact information is that six million euros has already been spent, if the loan is 10 million from the bank, government participation of 2.5 million, 40% of the advance approved by the bank is not six million. Does this mean that we have already entered the spending of more than 40% of the allowed advance and who will make it justice and how will it be paid? That's more of a problem for the government you wanted to do a favor for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7846	The People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7847	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, as regards the law confirming the loan agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, you could hear the comments of the SRS MPs in the morning. Why are we resorting to taking a loan from the Council of Europe? Our domestic banking after 2000 was totally destroyed. Simply, after the DOS arrived at power and strong promises, it began that the infrastructure that was bombed in 1999, worth over $100 billion, would be compensated by friends from Europe and America, of which nothing came true. We received some small funds compared to what was to be compensated to the state of Serbia, then Serbia-Montenegro. However, it was nothing. It's just that there's been a decommissioning and destruction and a little bit of the economy that's been working in our country. As far as the banking system is concerned, it is known that a major fraud as regards the National Savings Bank and the promises of the then Governor Mladjan Dinkic that one of the strongest domestic banks will pull this economy out of collapse, with the help of the World Bank and the European Bank for Development. However, none of this occurred, and the National Savings Bank, which in the meantime took over all the significant facilities of the then SDK as its own. Now there's the sale of all these facilities, the layoff of all these workers from domestic banks, and here we come to more and more in debt and to lend this state to Serbia. As for helping rebuild, Serbian Radical Party MPs normally support making up for the loss of all citizens living in that part of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has shown, as the biggest party, that the party that cares about its citizens; when the floods were in Jasa Tomic's settlement, it built it out of its own resources... I ask you, which of your parties, which is now in power, singled out any resources, own resources, not state, budget, to build one of the houses or to help those citizens who live in these flooded areas. As for helping our citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Radical Party has shown how much she cares and how she takes care of her citizens, although not in power, so she singled out and built houses both in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as this loan is concerned, as the colleague said, it is seen here that more funds have already been spent than are provided for under this agreement and under this law, which has already been ratified by the Government, and now needs to be by the Assembly, so that it is seen that the funds are already being spent non-purposely, that this bill which is now in the procedure and in the debate is not respected. As for this second issue, the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India, as Serbia is a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, SRS MPs support that the agreement with India has been ratified, since it has been a major surplus since then by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in trade between Yugoslavia and India. However, with the exasperation of the state and economic sanctions, it was that we had a deficit in the trade, which was later interrupted by war. Now, at the insistence of the Republic of India, there has been an initiative to continue this co-operation. When Serbian Radical Party MPs told you that you should continue and establish contacts with Russia, India and China, all of them, in local parliaments and in the republican parliament, made fun of it and said that you have great friends in Western Europe and in America, that they will help this country a lot, and we see that you are now going back to everything the SRS MPs have told you and have insisted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7848	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree that the consequences of the natural disasters should be addressed. But why do you keep doing it on loan? Someone's throwing money away. Well, I would like the one who supports this government of the Republic of Serbia to answer why there is no money in the budget. Probably because you have a bunch of agencies that you've created as public administration authorities, because you have parallel administrations and parallel ministries, where you've hired families, relatives, friends, party colleagues, great revolutionaries of the five-eyed revolution. That's why you don't have money in your budget. You have no money in the budget because the National Bank of Serbia lost 30 billion dinars in 2006, which is about 40 of these loans, and you have rewarded then Governor Jelasic with a new mandate to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Well, you don't have the money because you used a billion dinars as your accompanying borrowing costs for new loans. You don't have the money because you had to pay a billion dinars and fines for the approved loans you didn't withdraw, because you couldn't meet the contract provisions and guarantees issued by the Serbian Parliament. Many ministers from the previous government, and even in this government are ministers, and some even new ones, boasted that you allegedly returned some of the old loans prematurely. I ask the question, why did you repay far more favourable loans, pay them off prematurely, and then assign the state and the citizens to new loans, under more unfavourable conditions, with new borrowing costs, making documentation? Why? Well, if it hadn't been done that way, Bozidar Djelic, in a people known as Bozo Derikoz, the Duke of the Meridian Bank, would not now have more than 10m euros in securities of value at the Meridian Bank. Everything you've done since you came to power on October 5th, you've only worked with commissions. Someone less, someone more, someone was stealing, someone was stealing a little bit, but in any case, both worked well for their own personal benefit, and to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the loan itself, what is controversial in the loan is what it says about how credit is withdrawn, under which conditions, etc., it says there will be a subsidized interest, but no one says what interest it is. One more question, what about those foreign reserves? What are foreign exchange reserves located in banks in other countries? Who can guarantee me that these funds we raise as loans aren't our foreign exchange reserves? Who says it's not like that? And you have to go to foreign banks and foreign states because you don't have your own banks. And even if you pass foreign and gold reserves at the domestic bank, raise money from that same domestic bank, what the bank earns stays in the first place here in Serbia, will be used for other loans, for other investments, and the salary will go to workers who are Serbian citizens and not in the white world. That's how DOS's been doing since it's been in power. All that matters is the commission. The worse the citizens, the better. I even know about the situation that a president of the DS municipality begged God to flood his municipality in last year's floods, because he was promised funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which he would share with the citizens, and part of them to keep to himself and the scroll around him. That's how you use elemental accidents and abuse other people's misfortunes. When it comes to agreement with Slovenia on customs, let's look at your relationship with the problem Slovenia is making here and how you humiliate citizens and domestic economy. A few months ago, about exactly when this contract or agreement was signed, a larger goods contingent of a domestic Serbian factory was stopped at the border with Slovenia. The goods were placed out of traffic, with an explanation that it was invalid for human consumption. No one reacts from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is clear to a small child that no single product from the Republic can cross the state border, get out of here, while there is no necessary documentation on the correctness of goods, origin, country of producer, etc. None of our ministers from the government reacted. There has been damage to our domestic company, both on the domestic market, because, behold, Slovenians claim that we sell and make poison here and on the side. I ask the question, why didn't a single truck of goods of Slovenian origin stop at the border when they could unwarranted goods from Red, from Jaffa, to stop, to make a media pump out of it, why didn't you stop Colinska? You can't, there's Gilas' best man. Why didn't you stop Drugs? And there's someone else's godfather or are you sharing money? Why didn't you stop the Burning? You can't, and there you are, melting over the Mercator, through other department stores, because you took a commission from the Mercator to get a location. What are you doing? In whose interest? You stop their goods. So they defend their market, they write -- the goods are broken, they don't apologize afterwards, no problem, we're wrong, it doesn't matter, but the damage is done. Why don't you do it? Why aren't you protecting our economy? As a humiliation to both these workers and to the domestic economy, the government of the Republic of Serbia signs this agreement with Slovenia, instead of stopping all their trucks, all at the border, sorry, you hold ours, we'll be yours, so whoever endures more. That's how it works for a serious state, so it protects its citizens, its economy and industry, and you obviously only work for a commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7850	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, first of all, I need you as head of my party and president of our parliamentary group to inform me that I have just opened the envelope and that I am scandalized by the behaviour of certain MPs, namely the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee of Mr. Ivica Dacic, and above all by you, Mr. Dulic, because I am convinced that this is your butter. Namely, when we talked about the recommendations for your election, when after five days of Mr. Nikolic's legitimate election, you came to the post of president, proposed as DS code, we said you were one of Sonja Licht's favorites. That this is true also says this letter in which you are informed, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is precisely Sonja Licht, with respect, as president of the Belgrade Fund for Political Exciseness, that at the House of National Assembly on 17 and 18 October, I will not read to you who is all of us, to give a lecture, in collaboration with the Embassy of Great Britain, on the subject - Serbia in the Partnership for Peace. If it's from you and Sonja Licht, it's really too much, because that's the way the enemy enters. NGOs of Soroš's organizations in the highest assembly home is a direct attack on our country. It is quite obvious that the government in Serbia is leading a policy that is not in the interests of the state and the people, especially in a situation where we should defend ourselves and preserve Kosovo and Metohija. If you think this way, by bringing Sonja Licht and those who want to steal 15% of our territory, to do good to the MPs and to everyone you've brought here or in agreement with him, I think it's really scandalous and terrible. I suggest you cancel your hospitality to this Soros institution that has done so much evil to us over the years and whose sole goal, with the help of America and the Western powers, is to break our country and our people. I also warn Mr Dacic, who is not here, and anyone who is in the future thinking that he is working with such villains and that he is introducing them to a small door, or now and to a large one, in the House of the People's Assembly, to humiliate the people's representatives, not to joke about it, and never to think of anything like this again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7852	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP Jadranko Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7853	Before I go to this, on behalf of all the members of the SRS, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly who authorized him to bring any to this National Assembly who is our workplace? Who authorized him to some so-called so-called. The NGO is dragging into an institution called the National Assembly? Ladies and gentlemen of the people, when I hear the word "ratification" I get chills, because I know that behind it is another responsibility of the Serbian state, another load on the back of every Serbian citizen. Serbian citizens have been able to say to this democratic, Dosmanian government since 2000 -- thank you very much, we are in debt. Let me remind you that the state of Serbia at the time of the SFRY was four billion dollars in debt. Let me remind you that in 2000, after the "buldozer of the revolution", the state of Serbia owed nine billion dollars. Let me remind you that in the meantime we have sold almost the entire economy, there are still NIS, the EPS, these two insurance houses, and then someone can turn off the light at this Balkan pub. Today, the state of Serbia, in addition to everything sold, owes $20 billion. What some DS MPs are trying to say -- internal debt, external debt, debt to this, debt to that -- we moved, we expanded, we made a grace period, the state of Serbia owes $20 billion. Share it with the number of inhabitants of Serbia, and you will see how much each house has burdened every head. In doing so, it doesn't matter where money is going to be spent, credits are taken according to the IMT system, more specifically, if there's me, with the fat commissions. The interest on this last loan is not determined, but will be determined later on by fax and that interest is likely to include a commission for whoever signed it. Where do you spend the money? We don't know it. Who's the credit user? It's also unknown to us. All we know is that these loans don't go into production, they go directly to consumption. That someone will have to pay tomorrow, the state is brought into debt slavery, because we won't even be able to pay off interest, the principals will continue to accumulate. How'd the money get deployed? We also don't know, but we know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that these banks that the Dossow government has brought here have the biggest interest here in Serbia, much bigger than in the environment. In doing so, we also know that if you're at Raiffeisen Bank, then you go to Germany at Raiffeisen Bank to raise your funds, they say, "I'm sorry, but it's not our bank. Some aunts were opening banks. Not to mention the National Savings, which is an incredible robbery, one of the greatest robberies of all time. Not to mention these banks that went into the state with fat commissions. Not to mention that four state banks were destroyed just because the businesses, which you've torn apart like Alajbeg's straw, were obliged to these banks. Therefore, the banks were the owners of the shares of the assets of these companies. I remind you that the FBI has determined that there is a huge difference between the money paid to the state of Serbia during that transaction and the money paid there. A couple of tens of millions of dollars or euros went astray somewhere, it doesn't matter. The day before yesterday, we had a agenda point that speaks of corruption. Sometimes I get the impression that if you had almost all the ministers arrested and told them -- all five years later, many would say -- I did well. What about the market? Before the CEFTA deal was signed, what happened to the market? When did Mercator enter Belgrade and get so much space there to build a sales facility? Who stole the fat commission here? That's what we need to talk about, because democratics were in power in Serbia at the time. Let me remind you that the wife of a feathered democratic "buldozer of the revolution" has become the sales director of Mercator for Serbia. So for his wife's job, he sold two hectares of the country of Belgrade and the state of Serbia. The market as a national fortune has been torn apart with this CEFTA agreement, and so you hit a point on the letter "j". The relation of Slovenia... I don't want to remind you that 20 and some naked boys, Serbs, Slovenian gendarmes and hunters killed in '91. A year. I don't want to remind you that Slovenia is referring to goods coming from Serbia. I don't want to remind you that we don't have any shops in that same Slovenia. I will remind you that the Kranjska sausage Slovenia can no longer sell in the European Union, because it has more fat and water. She's passing by. There's her in the Mercator. There's Mercury. How long do you think you're insinuating what's not your grandmother's, but what your descendants need to use? Let me remind you, this same Slovenia in Serbia sells fruit yogurt on which the declaration says - the state of Kosovo. That's the 15% territory Miss Natasa Jovanovic spoke of. The goods with the inscription "States of Kosovo", are sold in Serbia, in these facilities, and the countries with which you want to conclude this agreement. Let me remind you that you have a sense of business, all of you. This morning I received information from Kruševec that one of your MPs had opened a fast food chain and a stray dog asylum. He drives a jeep, but there's no more barking in Krusevec.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7854	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7855	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104, Article 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I came forward for a statement by one of the debaters a few minutes ago, which could be misread. So I didn't understand the context in which Mr. Ivica Dacic was mentioned. He is not the head of the Protocol of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is not president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He is, according to a coalition, inter-party and inter-club agreement, the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. Serbia has not become a member of the SPS Peace Partnership. So, I wanted to say that Mr. Dacic is not engaged in protocol in the National Assembly and does not invite guests, nor does he define protocol for them. He's not present today. He's officially absent. I didn't understand the context of his participation in the scandal of any respected colleague or colleague, and that's why I answered. I apologize if I did not understand exactly what Miss Jovanovic said, but certainly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is functioning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If something is unclear here, then the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can discuss with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, sitting next to each other without costing the SPS and not going over Mr Dacic's back, because it has nothing to do with it. Please give me an answer about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7856	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7857	Mr Baralic, in order to make it clear to you, on September 27, Sonja Licht wrote to the National Assembly president on behalf of her NGO and proposed to him on October 18th in the period from 15.00 to 20.00 hours and on October 19th from 10.00 to 15.00 hours, that in the House of National Assembly, with the presence of the three committees of the National Assembly, several people from NATO and one ambassador raise the capacity of the National Assembly, so that the MPs could be responsible for making decisions, to implement the legislation and to take the exchange of views of the institutions which are the advantages. The chairman of the Committee on Defence and Security, Ivica Dacic, sent a letter to the Committee members, informed them that on October 18th and 19th at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Hall and will hold a meeting on the subject - Serbia in the Partnership for Peace. The organiser of the meeting is the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence. That is what Ivica Dacic writes, with the support of the UK Embassy in Serbia, and calls on those interested in participating in the meeting. Well, 81 Serbian Radical Party MPs will finally go to that meeting, let's tell you what we think about NATO, Euro-Atlantic integration, how the National Assembly is doing and what you accept, Mr. President. You call it whatever you want, and we will address the President of the Assembly and ask that every SRS MP has the right to exhibit for five minutes, and then we can open the discussion. From now on, whenever you set up such a meeting, there are 81 MPs of the SRS to present their opinion for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7858	Here you go, Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7859	Just two sentences. So, the chairman of the board, in accordance with practice and the Rules of Procedure, informs the MPs who are interested in attending a session that they can do so. I'm saying this for the connotation and intonation that is present here. Any MP, in accordance with his specifics, attitudes, can make a decision whether or not he wants to participate in such sessions. No board president in the Serbian Parliament is here privately. So, the board president doesn't oblige anyone to go anywhere, but I suppose, and I ask you, Mr. President, to explain it, in accordance with some kind of agreement that has been reached with you. In that sense, you consider this a notification to the members of the Committee. Otherwise, those who wish to, and are not from parties who understand this matter in this way, would have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure and to say that the president of the Committee has not informed them about it. So that's all there is to it, not the qualification of whether it's for or against this. Everything else is a matter of free choice, free will and free determination.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7860	The People's MP Jadranko Vukovic has the word, and let the People's MP Bozidar Delic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7861	Mr. Baralic, before I go to this point of the agenda, as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, I have to tell you that I have no idea why you're going out for this pay phone and who you're defending. If I were the chairman of the board, I'd be ashamed to send this invitation to my fellow committee members. Mr. Baralic, you're the opposition. On the board, I turned my attention to Mr. Dacic, and he was acting strangely on the board, as if he were a representative of the government. Don't be angry, I'm sorry he's not here, but you've caused this controversy, and we'll clear that up with him. At the very least, he had to gather us from the Committee and say, "People, Dulic, Parliament Speaker, bring Sonja Licht to give us a lecture," so let's talk, Mr. Baralic. Nothing personal, I respect you, but this is terrible, and you can't defend this. Don't let us get on this subject. We need to clear this up, but somewhere else. As regards this law on ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes, in an explanation, Mr Minister, there are no clear reasons and objectives to be achieved by law. First of all, it was necessary to specify how many of our registered companies in the Republic of India and vice versa, so that we could understand the real effects of this law. In addition, the difference between the tax systems of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of India was to be indicated. I'm afraid someone will use this law to register their businesses in Serbia right in India, if the tax is more favourable there. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as distinguished colleague Jorgenka Tabakovic pointed out, we have no objection to making such and similar agreements with us friendly countries, as the Republic of India did. Personally, I have no doubt that the other side's intention is to sign this contract, but unfortunately, I must admit that I have a reasonable doubt about the honesty of the promoter. Why, Mr. Minister? And you know, I learned it from the media, in the news of a television show, I don't know which it was, the adviser of Bozidar Djelic and the president of the municipality of Indija Goran Jesic, on his return from India, comes to a television studio and informs the citizens of Serbia that with a business delegation, it is closer to me, knowing this man, with some tycoon delegation, was in India, that they have made big arrangements and that they will bring businessmen here, that they will make big projects. So, for this very reason, I doubt that the proposal's true intention is, and I'm afraid that many tycoons, if the tax is more favourable, will transfer their firm's headquarters from Belgrade to India, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7862	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, and let the MP of the people Jorvanka Tabakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7863	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has never been a closed country, has always been ready for co-operation. Whatever period of history you look at in its period, except for this period of the 1990s when others put fences, blockades and sanctions on us, Serbia has collaborated with most of the countries in the world. However, what Serbia should always take care of is its interests. This is where India was mentioned today. I can tell you that these days we met with an Indian delegation about some other obligations. The delegation always has an extremely positive view towards our country and our delegation. The Indian delegation supports Resolution 1244 and points out that it will continue to support all that is in Serbia's interest. What kind of business is that? I guess the fact that it has 5.5 million businesses, almost as many as Serbia has residents, is enough to say what its options are. It's a country that has countless scientific institutions and institutes, a country whose telecommunications network covers the whole world and earns about $50 billion annually. However, what stands out as a problem in co-operation is the difficulty in obtaining visas for Indian businessmen. When we look at statistics, I think you believe this data, because from the Statistical Institute, if we look at exports in the first three months of 2006 and 2007, exports to India were only $600 000 in 2006 and $13.8 million this year, while imports last year were 3.3 million in the first three months, and this year 16.6 million. It is good that both exports and imports are increasing to the country, although there are interests on the other hand to make it far more balanced than it is now. As for Poland, exports last year were 11.5 million, this year 45 million, and imports last year were 29.1 million, and this year 52.7 million. I especially want to list one country, which we also have to vote on here, which is Slovenia, because it's not enough just for this data that we get from Serbia's statistical office, I don't know if the finance minister can say anything more about it. If last year's exports in the first three months were $48.1 million, this year it was $89.1 million, i.e. imports last year 64.7, and this year 87.4, it turns out that in the first three months of this year, we exported more to Slovenia than we imported from Slovenia, if we believe in the statistical institution of Serbia. However, gentlemen, imagine one other fact: in the structure of Hungarian exports, 70 to 75% of exports are companies bought by Hungarian companies. Then I ask the Minister of Finance if he can tell us if in the structure of our exports these 400 companies from Slovenia and Croatia make up 25, 30 or 50%? That's what's important. So it's a scam that we need to agree to here, because if we just look at the average statistics from the first three months last and this year, it turns out that we exported two million dollars more goods to Slovenia than we imported, and you know, each of you individually, that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7864	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, and Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7865	In this final statement concerning the set of laws, I will again focus most on this project for which we have not received enough information. Regardless of the purpose of which is social nature and which is necessary, regardless of the urgency of reacting, I am absolutely certain that there is no need to give consent to this way of borrowing. Before I ask one particular question, I ask the minister - did the lack of time and the change of the proposed authority lead to you not being informed as finance minister by the person who gave you the credit as the chief commander for using these funds? Is this the Law on Public Debt that says that you as Minister of Finance and the Public Debt Administration are in charge and responsible, or is this the right of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Why do I say that? Point 4 - implementation of the project, reads "Lypoprivac", which is the state of Serbia, "will trust the task of implementing the project to Serbia's Building Directorate, which will oversee works under the authority of the Ministry of Capital Investments. "I'm not asking the legal follow-up of the Ministry of Capital Investment and the one who's really doing it right now. It's really not right for the guy that the bank, the lender, doesn't inform you to come out here with all the information. I can be a little uncomfortable, and you're even more embarrassed that you don't have the information you need. I still have to ask specific questions. If in the final account of the National Bank of Serbia for 2006 we received a report that we used 9.6m euros from this lender over the past year for the reconstruction and reconstruction of houses destroyed in the April 2005 flood in the Vojvodina area, that the funds were fully used in three wars in July, is there a report on it and why we didn't get it so we could make the right decision? Furthermore, if the loan agreement states that the project was approved on 6 September, the colleague here stated that in 2005, it was granted a change from one loan to the next, if it wasn't his lapus, because the slides were in February 2006, with the maximum negative consequences in March 2006, how could the funds be transferred from already approved credit to these specific purposes in 2005? Why would I ask that? The Treaty accurately states that for each tranche, the borrower, means Serbia, determines, along with whoever gives the loan, the amount, interest rate, the payment date, the repayment period and the way the money supply is done. If it's already been used, as it says here, six million, why didn't we get information on the exact conditions for the already used? I'm still asking the question, if, for any reason, the cost of the project rises or is audited, and we know perfectly well that each of these projects must go beyond the planned indicative amount of funds spent in these cases... So it's very likely that the amount of funds to exceed the planned amount will be brought out here. Here, the state of Serbia is under obligation to ensure the availability of additional financial resources. So, Serbia will have to out of the budget to provide not only part of the 2.5m euros, which you are bringing here, but what the colleague said about VAT and stressed, immediately letting you know that you are providing funds for the payment of already executed works where the lender did not say that these funds were included in the cost of the loan. It's a new budget cost you don't get to know here, and it's already known how much that commitment is based on VAT. Mr. Minister, is there some part of the budget reserve of some assets, some inflow, some co-financer you expect to provide funds for what's already a cost, which is VAT, and what's very likely to be an additional cost? Furthermore, the Ministry of Capital Investments, writes here, will submit, before the first payment, the results of tendering or negotiations on contracts for works in the area of infrastructure and house repair. I ask clearly and precisely - did the Ministry of Capital Investment prepare, and after the tender is called, contracts for works in this area? I doubt it, given the way companies that were under direct control at the time of Mr Velimir Ilic's capital investment minister were performing certain tasks, in which the Public Procurement Act was not respected. I don't want to, because this has a material weight, and everyone will suffer the consequences of what fits personally, where personal responsibility is. I mean Mr. Ilic and the Construction and Infrastructure Directorate or anyone. What I have here is a problem and what is a problem for the citizens of Serbia, if the bank determines any kind of failure, we will have criminal interest and immediate payment of the entire loan. Article 6 - in case the funds, means any, not just those that are the subject of this loan... So, it has already been stated here that you have spent some of the funds you are asking for today's consent from us and that as a state of Serbia, as a borrower, we will have to pay extra interest at a one-month eurobor rate of 4,175 plus 2.5% a year from the date of maturity of this payment. If we're late, we'll have to pay the fines. If we use non-purpose or any failure notice, we will immediately have to repay the loan, and at the rate of the euribor, which is updated every 30 days. How will they determine that? They've provided themselves with the 4th right where they say we're obliged to receive them at any time so that they can carry out an audit of the accounting of the project, which one or more consultants of their choice would carry out, and the cost of the borrower. So, on the cost of the Serbian state, on the cost of the budget, will carry out control and will not be able to happen as in many cases when we have budget inspection, controllers or television, with an inappropriate dictionary expelled from a particular company, but will have to open business books, situations, contracts, tenders. If there is a gap, the direct material cost goes to the budget and the state of Serbia. Let me repeat, unless the borrower fulfils any of his obligations under this loan, and I am dear citizens, dear colleagues, respected citizens and respected colleagues, only some of the obligations I have made here. To repeat once again, all duties and fees of all kinds are borne by the borrower. So, the story of preferential interest, the story of a pre-borrowed loan that looks like and no interest... We forget that free cheese is only in the mousefish and there is no interest-free credit anywhere, because the basic clauses, the basic purpose of the entire market economy and the credit-based business is interest on credit. You're here to assure us that we need to give you consent to what you've already spent, to keep quiet or not to inform you, which is worse on your part, so that you can inform us how much this loan is actually burdening us. I think today will be on the agenda of an even more difficult commitment, which we get based on two guarantees from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, I do insist on your responsibilities regarding the work you are doing, in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in relation to the legislative body whose job it is to check here how you enforce the law of the prescribed obligation. With all due respect to one of the rare international institutions such as this one, which is the Bank of Social Determination, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which provides funds for a very human social purpose, it does not release you from the obligation to present to us the full truth about the things that have already been done, about the costs that have already been made, about the reports that we have to see with this agreement, as you will have to provide us with each of the following credit (you will not have to, but we will ask, and the citizens will judge who has to file the accounts), along with each of the following borrowings, submit the report. Why do I doubt your reports? I said the surplus and deficit data in the budget differ depending on which one of the ministers submitted the 2007 budget. When Dinkic did it, we had a surplus, when Mr Cvetkovic came in, we had a shortage. There's one more thing. In public, a story has been drawn that political parties have received more funding than is legally theirs. Convinced that there is a minimum of professionality and responsibility in this country in relation to the work being done, and compared to the citizen dinar, I was convinced that your 2006 final account report accurately stated that the political parties were paid 534, I think, millions, and that the sum was used, as prescribed, by the law, by 99.99%. Don't ask me how, you'll do it tomorrow. I really apologize for losing the exclusiveness of your information in this way, and tomorrow you will admit that the parties were actually paid more in the last year, and in this year less than three million. I thought it was unique only to Mr Dinkic; when he left Parivodić for him to do a part of the job, and left his people to allegedly work professionally for him, honestly, or as he said - expertise in front of politics, so the funds were forgotten, I repeat, for subsidising housing loans. I was convinced it was the past. From this moment on, I don't know, I'm really in doubt, dear citizens, which method checks the credibility of the data and the accounts that you're making us do to make sure that I'm providing information that's unequivocal. So, what kind of review do we have people with conflicts of interest, where they'll probably have to account for political parties, because until a political agreement was reached, we didn't even have a proposal for people? I will not question the revision in advance, but if I doubt the data and the report, in the final account that you delivered to me and I have defended myself as chairman of the Finance Committee, convinced of the minimum professionality and that you paid the parties what the law requires, I am truly in the dilemma and I am sorry that I have to pass on my suspicion to the citizens that the state in one very important part (not the most important part, is the one that needs to preserve Kosovo and Metohija), which concerns financial support, is not stable enough, because it is not driven by enough professional people. You, Mr. Minister, have too much confidence in those who don't deserve it, because the mistake that happened when the budget was made is no longer an accident. Then you damaged the Ministry of Agriculture for a certain amount of funds because, also working quickly, they appointed twice the same purpose, by mistake, and you eliminated them and the rest were denied for part of the funds. That's what happens when you make a budget, that's what happens when you do the final bill. You're dating us with a loan request, where we don't have minimum information. Well, here you go, dear and esteemed colleagues, tell me what information we can trust more? What information the governor delivers can I trust? What information from the Ministry can I trust? Was that the goal of the moment the Social Accounting Service was destroyed under a ossuary system company that only had in one place all the information on the movement of money? If there was a service in which all information on money flows were poured into it, there would be no need for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and money laundering, because it would be very easy to see, as it is seen in the world, any turnover of money over 20,000 euros. Nothing in this country is an accident. It is prepared to break money flows, to have no insight into the figures that speak about macro data, what total expenditures, what total incomes are, what happens to budget and inflows, and that from the same data, we get double information from the same house, if necessary, who is currently in power or who is leaving, or who will come. I seriously doubt that I can believe you more in any information you bring here. It really seems very unserious to me the way you exercise power as a coalition. When you do it in private, not using state resources and not conflicting private interest with the public, when at the expense of public functions you fill your pockets... But when you do direct damage to the citizens of Serbia, it is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7866	I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7867	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, Article 226. I'm sorry it's not the President of Parliament and the Secretary of Parliament, but I'm looking for a note and an explanation. It's a good thing there's a finance minister present, because it has something to do with him, too. Every day in various means of information, we monitor reports of abuses of MPs, when it comes to the collection of journals, travel expenses, the increase of alleged mileage, hotel accommodations, etc. Unfortunately, that's true. We can't just stare at it. Some MPs who do so are putting an end to all MPs. People's MPs should in some way be a guideline, as you will, a beacon, a model for the citizens who chose them, not that in the most trivial and shameful way they abuse that function. I will not mention any party, no name, but I would appeal to all MP groups, to all party leaders to check it out. Is it normal for someone when the session of the Assembly is over at 18 hours to travel 400 kilometers, so the next day comes back and be at the session at 10 o'clock, and then for days, and then that mileage moves, it increases. It's verifiable on those shares where there are billing ramps. Mr. Minister, hire a budget inspection. I must say, as president of the DHSS two years ago, I filed a criminal report, with nothing against Predrag Markovic and Mark Danilovic, who was then the secretary of the Assembly, but phenomenally, if false, stealing, then how can this be the highest representative home of a country, which is done, unfortunately. Let's look into the truth, admit that 200,000 children in this country are on the verge of hunger, let's face that truth. I take people to my MP offices every Saturday, I meet sad fates, and that's why no one has the right to take anything from them, disillusioned citizens of Serbia, out of their empty wallets, from the taxpayers of this country, to do more for themselves. I also ask the President of the Assembly and the Secretary and the Minister to carry out a comprehensive check and that this practice is no longer permitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7868	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for the discussion, which was really fruitful and gave her a lot of ideas. I'd like to refer to some of the questions that were raised here. I'd only take a minute, about what's been said about funding political parties, although it has nothing to do with the subject, but there's going to be a press conference tomorrow. This isn't about a mistake in a numerical sense. All reports show a real number, which has been brought and spent. The mistake is, or the question is whether the figure could have been greater or smaller, which is not due to an external error, but to one system situation as it is determined and what its fate is. It's a little more complicated, and I wouldn't be getting into it right now. Tomorrow I'll have more time to look back on that part. Now I'd like to return to the agenda. As was said at the outset, this is actually a law behind which the loan and the four laws behind which bilateral relations stand, so since it's a different issue, I would talk about it. As for this first one, when it comes to the loan, I listened to the discussions and it seems to me that the objections can mostly group into two main groups, possibly having one third subgroup. These main groups of objections would be approximately defined as follows. First, regardless of the credit is OK, in terms of one disaster, it needs to be helped people, the bank is not political, everything is fine, but there is not enough information and therefore we don't know how funds have been spent so far, dedicated or non-intentional, etc. In one word, an observation regarding information and spending in that position. The second remark was that, otherwise, the state was over-indebted, and now the new debt brings citizens into a difficult situation that they would have to allocate significant funds in the future and pay. These are the two key remarks, so I would like to try my arguments to show that these objections are not in place and to convince you to give up and support this law. First, when it comes to the lack of information in terms of current consumption, spending, whether 40%, is not, the terms of interest for so far withdrawn funds, I want to tell you that there is a fundamental principle that I cannot withdraw funds from those positions or contracts that have not experienced ratification. Contracts only by ratification in this House, and by you, give someone the opportunity to withdraw funds. So from this position that we are now talking about, no single dinar, or euro has been withdrawn. This story about how there's been a skating rescue, etc. is correct, but this is about other loans which have already been ratified or the own funds that the state has invested. Therefore, the observation that there is not enough information about this does not stand without the data on the spending of funds at the same financier, that is correct, but that is not the subject of this point. You can demand, independently of this point, to get information about how some other positions have been spent and also to make sure that this is good or not. Also, you now have an external auditor who will help you in that regard. The second question is about too much responsibility. There were various statements about heights: so many billions, so many millions, so I don't know how many per head, etc. I saw that it was very popular to bring written confirmations of attitudes, so I took the opportunity to join it. Here you have the official messenger, number 58 of June 23 this year, where on page 5 you can read the real state of public debt. Public debt means what the state owes, and there you will see that public debt, along with guarantees issued to public enterprises, amounts to about 9.3 billion, and without them below 9 billion, means 8.7. You even have that public debt broken down by the items, so I'm instructing everyone interested to take it and examine it. If the total level of public debt is divided by gross social product, which is the usual measure, then it turns out that it is below 30% of the social product, which makes us relatively less in charge of the country in the region, in Europe. There are some who are better than us, but we are generally less in charge of the country. It is likely that this environment is one of the comparative advantages of the country having the chance and the capacity to attract favourable funds, to develop its infrastructure, in the extreme line, to improve both the activity in this country and the population standard. In any case, my argument is that we are not an overindebted country, that citizens should not worry and that this loan, which is otherwise given and taken for humanitarian purposes, means to help those who have suffered, should be supported, especially by taking it from a very favourable source. Secondly, not most importantly, but here's the illustration, because when someone says millions and billions, they're so big numbers for citizens that they can't bear to think about what it's about... I would say, for the sake of comparison, that if this loan, let's say, is returned for about twenty years, or we say that about one million euros a year is a burden with interest and capital, when it compares to the old foreign exchange savings, which the budget is being serviced, which was about 270 million this year, it will be 300 times less debt, or an annual burden on this loan, so that it will not in itself be a reason to worry that the citizens will be burdened, and for a short time, it will allow certain noble objectives to be done. Now I would just briefly look at two findings that I think are well said. One thing about this project, it says -- it is, it may be favourable, but that's why control is very serious, so the bank is secure, do this, then it will, etc., have criminal measures. One minute I felt it was listed as a negative credit. On the contrary, I think that's another reason why this loan should be taken, because he is showing attention to which the creditor will take care of the transparency of spending, the fact that the funds have come into the right hands, and this particular concern, and these harsh conditions can guarantee us that the credit will be spent for the right purposes. And just one more comment about this first point, that's the question -- what if the project costs more so the state has to provide extra money, it's not foreseen, etc. That remark is very interesting, but I think she should be watched from the next point of view. When the project is said, in this case it is not a single object, which can be overrun and then we enter into this situation that was previously described. In fact, this is about dozens and hundreds of tiny projects, that is, households, which we include and overrun the project can only mean broader coverage. In this context, it is up to us to spread the scope and help others (logically, from our own resources) or we will not do so. So this isn't about getting into some extra risk that can wait for us. In view of the above, I call on you to vote positively for this law when it comes to this law, or to express yourself positively, because I believe that this will help, independently of political views, people who expect it. The second part, which I'm going to talk about much shorter, refers to these four agreements. Generally, this is about bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and these countries. It could be seen from the discussion that when it comes to India, almost everyone supports it, and when it comes to these other countries some support and some do not. I believe that in the finals, however, all these laws will receive majority support. It should be borne in mind that this is about bilateral and reciprocal agreements. So there's no obligation that we've given ourselves without giving it to our partner, or the signator, or any right we've given ourselves without him taking it. So listing what he has right is not something that is exclusively given to one and not given to another. And that idea of opening up a company in India, so to make use of a more favourable tax rate, etc., is an idea that is always present. So you have such a fight in the region and everyone is fighting, in fact, even tax measures, to be attractive, to attract others. I don't think India's gonna be much of a competitor here, simply because of the geographical distance, but I think we're about to have that fight. We are witnessing that our 10% profit tax rate, which we introduced a few years ago, has already had an impact and that some countries have started to react and are lowering their rates, so it's the same part of the one market that awaits us. In the end, I thank you again for the discussion and I urge you to vote for these ratification laws, because there really is no policy here, and I think we should all support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-11-0.u7870	I thank Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and his associates. I conclude a joint single search of points 21 - 25. That's what we do today's work. I'm scheduled to resume the session for Monday, October 15th, 2007, at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, called on 1 October 2007. Today is the ninth day of work, October 15th. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system found that 101 MPs were present in the hall, i.e. we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. There's electronics to help us work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Aleksandra Jerkov, Esad Judžević and Dusan Mrvos. We move to a common single search of 26-30th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE COURT OF CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK (SERBIA SERBIA SERBIA Railway and Development Railway Bank) between Serbia and the European Bank of Serbia (PROGRAMME OF OBAN’S READING AND RURGEMENT); CONTRIBUTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE HORSE NETWORK NETWORK IN EUROPE; PROTOCOL 1999. Years on amendments to the Convention on International Railway Vehicles (COTIF) of 9. May 1980. And the Cotif of 9. May 1980. In the 1999 protocol-based version. YEARS; THE AKATA OF THE COUNCIL POSSESSION A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on drafts of the law on items 26 to 30 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 149a paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party – one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, MP group DSS - New Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes and 24 seconds, MP group G17plus – 22 minutes and 48 seconds, MP group SPS – 19 minutes and 12 seconds, LDP – 13 minutes and 12 seconds, MP group of minorities - the Allied Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley – 7 minutes and 12 seconds and the Vojvodjan Group - LSV, SVM – 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
