ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6271	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 104 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Nenad Canak, Balint Pastor, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Jelena Markovic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DUVAN LAW (exist in particular) The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević to Article 5. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution only stands out in cases where it suits you, or when you think you're right. So you used a constitutional basis for the tobacco law, which is already the third time (2005, 2006 and this 2007) on the agenda of this assembly. Now you're making some changes and supplementing this law. We were against these and such suggestions, and we spoke to you and pointed to you. We've written a number of amendments to improve the previous laws that were on the agenda, but you've denied it all and adopted it the way you think it is, that is, how your employers give you instructions. Profit, only profit, for them and for them alone, and for the budget that remains, and for the people what you would like. People nothing, I mean producers of raw tobacco. Today we have also given our judgment on the CEFTA agreement and we have informed the public where this ship is sailing: it sails towards Albania, to Croatia, to Bosnia and Herzegovina and to all the countries that have signed this agreement, and the ultimate goal of this trip is to pick up all passengers from those Cefti ports, then your ship should cross the Alps and arrive in that Europe of yours. That ship's journey is just an illusion and you know it is, but what else could you promise citizens besides that? All your illusions and all your promises have been translated into a weak economic life for all of our citizens. Our citizens feel in every area as well as where that ship of yours sails. This same Europe has broken our market, our production, all our centuries-old traditional ways of production, customs, so today even tobacco production is not what it was, I mean the quality we used to have, and we had the best tobacco. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković assured you to the point that this CEFTA you respect is only the lobby, i.e. the training camp of the European Union. She asked you a question which is the benefits that exceed the damage; the effects of entering are zero, she has made you aware, and she has also informed the public that everything you do is not good. In Article 29, tobacco consumers, I mean our factories, they don't have to anymore and they don't have to protect and protect domestic agricultural producers. Now you've played the game to solve it and it's not fermented anymore, it's a processed tobacco. You know the figure entered the budget when selling our tobacco industry – minus 500 million euros. You promised that the new owners would be protected by low buying-in prices of tobacco and therefore they entered this privatisation in the hope that by 2009 they would be safe and return to their industrial actions the funds invested in the industry. But you probably have other comments and it's also evident from this bill that goes to the detriment of most of our tobacco manufacturers, and it's raw tobacco. You mention that this chain employs about 130 thousand people and that you do it in the interest of these people, and we know that you do it to the other side, which you promised that their economic effects would be stable and secure in that production. You know how you sold the tobacco industry in Serbia and what conditions were for those monopolies. You remember our views well, as far as this tobacco management is concerned; we've been showing you, and today we're doing the same thing, that it's just a center for hiring party personnel, and you can see it from the plane. Nothing has been done in the agricultural production of this culture to now be grown in Serbia in a greater volume, in a better way. Our producers are not satisfied with the conditions of production and the purchase prices. You want to equalize our producers with the WTO system, and where our producers are, when the state does not have any incentive and other regressed instructions for this production, and you know how this Europe of yours does it. When the Excise Act was adopted, we proposed, through amendments, a regulation for the benefit of our producers, but you felt that excise duties would be filled with the budget. This has satisfied your demands and wishes and financial resources towards your party interest groups, not citizens' interests. The departments are like feuds to you. In article 9, you order and create rappers to reduce 40% of the mandatory purchase of domestic production to 30%. Is it possible when you've already reportedly entered the CEFTA system, where as a sanction you provide for the withdrawal of a production permit and you are referring to a member of this law? You know for a fact that tobacco affairs are open and mentioned from this assembly pay phone, and you act like it's none of your business. Surely someone will solve these affairs, because then this law will also be released from these mortgages and will be able to function in the production of this culture. Tobacco is a culture that belongs to industrial plants and as such deserves a better legal solution than all the laws so far proposed. You destroyed tobacco production on purpose, you prove it's not true. It's a shame to pass a law like this. As you say, he supplies 130 thousand workers in this chain. You've had to predict far-reaching and see what's useful to these people, not to be slaves to the world's mightiers and individuals of your mob clan. We'll have problems with the environment. All the integrations that cause damage to our society should be stopped. It'll be less damage than they go into life and eventually create ruin and misery. We Serbian radicals suggest you withdraw this law from the procedure because we have submitted 22 amendments to it; to such a small, as you say, law. Minister Cvetkovic, as a representative of the government, was not convincing in his statement that we would accept such a law. The minister cited such reasons that they were not important at all. For example, he said -- the existing law changes among other things because of the region. Which regions? He explained that three directions are the basis for changes and additions to this law. These routes are likely to cause damage to our tobacco producers, and they are not interested in them. It is important to them that those in that production structure provide a normal life for their families and society. Will they have to know English, like all the workers in the tobacco industry in Nis, to be as close to your CEFTA as possible? I still have to read to you the argument of the government relating to this amendment that I have submitted. It reads: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 36(6) and 7. The tobacco law refers to the obligation to produce or purchase domestically processed tobacco referred to in Article 29(7) of the Law on tobacco, which is deleted by the draft law, with the provisions of Article 36(6) and (7). The tobacco law proposed in Article 9(3) and (4) The bill, which regulates the obligation to produce or buy domestically processed tobacco by 31 December 2007. My question is, what after? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6273	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Momir Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6274	Mr. President, I think you should have provided... Here, finally the minister has arrived, I apologize. The minister's here, so we can work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am not going to talk about who and how they trade in tobacco in Serbia. After all, special courts and other courts have become our source of information, and I think a lot more will come out of those sources. The means of information no longer come to the scene, but come before the Special Court, so protected, unprotected and other witnesses, the witnesses associates, talk about who he was dealing with, how he dealt. I expect that by the end of these trials, many more names and many personalities come to the surface. Today I will not talk about this CEFTA contract that you have opened the market for all goods of the former Yugoslav republics, including, of course, Albania and Moldova. I don't want to talk about how you destroyed this little Serbian economy that way. I don't want to talk about how you allowed the production of high-quality, high-quality tobacco to be destroyed in time, which included BAT, and Philip Morris, and all the other major manufacturers, to fertilize other varieties of tobacco and make the most quality cigarettes. I'm talking about glue, strong, oil, millet and other varieties of tobacco, which are dry gold, and they were produced on these terrains. You brought in some that could bring in genetically modified tobacco varieties, like, after all, they brought in genetically modified soybeans and all the other genetically modified organisms, so they ruined all of our production. At a few tens of thousands of hectares in the bathing area for seven years, there can be no more pyre, which is the worst weeds, nothing can be produced on those surfaces. Of course, it didn't occur to you to pay any compensation to the peasants who own these areas. I don't want to talk about how you made a commitment to customers when you sold the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry to buy cheap raw materials and cheap products, to the expense of tobacco producers. And I'm not going to talk about how under tobacco producers you've meant only those of those who actually produce tobacco, from peasants, buying tobacco and showing up as producers, because there are 20 and some criteria to meet to be called tobacco producers. You forced the peasants to go to cooperatives or to sell tobacco to these very buyers, who after reselling tobacco factories. I'm not going to talk about the fact that by contract CEFTA you directly opened the market for the Rovinj tobacco industry and all the other companies around. To make up for what you promised the buyers of the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje, and to what you are firmly bound by the contract, you are now cutting taxes, damaging the state, allowing them to buy raw materials at low prices for their products. I'm interested in something else, and I'd like the minister, if he can, to answer me immediately. By amendment to Article 5, in particular to a member of the 40th basic law, I asked that the word "half-yearly" be replaced by "annually". It's about harmonising the State's compensation. Of course, the government has rejected my amendment and the argument says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by prescribing the half-year adjustment of the fee, it is achieved to maintain the real value of the source of the amount of compensation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has acknowledged by this reasoning that it expects severe inflation and that it will continue to comply with the producer's fees for half a year in such a way as to at least partially protect these revenues. If the government were stable, if there were no inflation, if you hadn't predicted inflation, then this amendment would have been adopted, because in some way, part of the administration could have been avoided. Of course, you expect to be half a year eventually, so as much as you can, by the system -- what the eye sees, the hand does not leave, and when someone else comes, let them take the chestnuts out of the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6275	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we first passed this law we held a debate for a long time, however, he was the second minister. It is illogical for me why this change occurred from Mr Cvetkovic to you, Mr Milosavljevic, because we can really interpret differently whose jurisdiction is tobacco as excise goods and as a direct revenue to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but this law in the most part, and this member I am going to tell you about, is talking about the sale, or traffic of tobacco products. This is not only illogical, I wrote a brief, summed, clear explanation, that this could only have been suggested by a dilettante. Don't be offended, Mr. Minister, because you inherited this from the previous ministry, since you are the continuity of the previous Kostunica government, just the continuation of that part of the government that wrote these laws. Either you didn't want to pay attention or, unlike me, you didn't ask yourself what kind of problems all the ordinary people, the owners of independent trades, came into because of the provisions of this law. Namely, I have done an intervention in Article 45; this is about the necessity of meeting sanitary-hygienic conditions in the traffic of cigarettes. First of all, it's scandalous, Mr. Minister, that you have introduced this kind of licensing for the owners of independent trades that sell cigarettes, i.e. tobacco products. There's absolutely nothing in the country that helps people in this business. That's, like, budget revenue. Because you've set up a tobacco agency and because you've invented this kind of licensing, you're probably at your disposal now, as resolute minister, with as much data as there are those who produce tobacco and those who put their tobacco products on the market, and you, Mr. Bubalo and the other ministers from the government. But although you and your ministry are not interested in the sale of cigarettes themselves and the work of trade shops, it certainly was of interest to you in your earlier mandates, when you were the president of the chamber and when you were minister in the first Djindjic government. Mr. Minister, I would ask you (Mrs. Kolundzhija, since it is an important thing, if you would be kind enough not to interrupt the minister) to give me an answer, as someone who now directly cares about producers and agricultural production, earlier as the chamber president and before that as a resolute trade minister. Think about whether it makes sense by law to ask the owners of a trade or a trade facility, which can be some major trade, that type character, you know what it has, to meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions to sell cigarettes. If they don't do it, which is very pointless to ask these people, because they physically can't do it, they don't have conditions for it, especially trades... That means they have a wet knot. What does "sanitary hygiene" mean? I will now tell you, I went out for a moment, given that it was the same amendment two years ago, to ask one of my associates, Mrs. Giropaj of Knic (her two daughters had completed a commercial school and held one of the few trades in the center of the Franciscan town) how it is possible for her to meet the sanitary-hygiene conditions. She told me that the process is under way: from Knic, which is nearly 200km away from Belgrade, she has to come and pay the state to get the paper (and nothing helps her ministry) to get her license. Instead of four thousand, it'll cost eight thousand, that's 100 euros. The question is, is that how young girls, who keep a store in one town and try to have a solid range of goods, do anyone in Zemun, Vrakar, Kragujevac, anywhere, pay to hold tobacco products and ask for a license from the state, because that's 100 euros less profits? She can pay taxes for 100 euros and contribute to the state for one employee. You will destimulate them to do so, and you will threaten them with great punishments because they do not meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions. I asked her nicely – well, what did they say to you? Well, they charged you with sanitary and market inspectors and they said, "If you don't meet those conditions by autumn, you won't be able to do it anymore." If they really go with such rigorous measures and criminal provisions and if they force people to have those sanitary hygiene conditions up to a certain time limit... You know what's being sold, Mr. Minister. There's a wide range of products. Imagine now the trade, the store, where you have bread and dairy, of course they take care of it, at least they have that sink, where those salesgirls wash their hands, but what is it, then, that's the sanitary-hygienic condition? I think you owe people an answer, they're like, "Who knows how many thousands or tens of thousands of people who support children from that?" Or, for example, these two young ladies, they just do it and have no other job. One parent doesn't have one, and the other is probably unable to cope, because they're people who got fired. There are many such cases in Serbia's cities, and in my city, where people are the miserable severances of several thousand euros they have invested and helped children open their trades. You have to ask yourself if it's normal, if we have to stimulate people to do anything, and trade with all these products can be quite solid work, not lucrative, not to make someone rich, that's to have pension, social and to earn a small wage and that he can live normally; why do you have four thousand to increase to eight thousand? So you doubled the license fee for no reason. If you calculate at Jelasic's inflation rate, you couldn't possibly get that doubled amount. Why are you looking for these conditions that nobody can truly create? Even in the view of the same member, where we have written the amendment, it states that this should also apply to a vehicle carrying tobacco products. Now just explain to me how one vehicle can meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions. If this smart guy finds out, he can explain to me if it's the type vehicles, if it's the kind of vehicles they're starting to pretend to be, that maybe he didn't build a factory somewhere in Cana Frog's refugee house, so he's making a van to transport cigarettes, and there's a little bathroom in there. I'm just asking you to explain to me, Mr. Minister, how a sanitary-hygienic condition should be acquired in the vehicle, and in one of the categories. Here, people are asking you specifically, like this lady from Knick I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6277	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, since 2000, we have obviously had no luck with agriculture ministers. Let us remember, first it was Dragan Vesenov, if you forgot him, it was he who liked to drive quickly; then Stojan Jeftic replaced him, it was he who brought himself into the Chamber of Commerce and the one who replaced you, Mr Minister, the most endangered man with a housing issue; then one lady who was more concerned with all the others than with agriculture and created good conditions for agricultural production; and she was also replaced by a man who loved to sit with her as her assistant. Then you, Mr. Minister, can't say about you yet, it's a short period, but judging by how hard you've tried to help the farmers, and this time I'm going to focus on tobacco producers, nothing special is expected and nothing much better than your predecessors. In 2006, about 7,645 tonnes of tobacco were produced; of which 5,606 varieties of "virginia" were produced, which normally increased three times, followed by a variety of "berlay" of about 1,800 tonnes and ultimately by Oriental tobacco, these are the quality ones in which Serbia has traditionally good results, whose production dropped to 161 tonnes. I must remind my fellow MPs that Serbia is in a period of between the 1970s. And the '80s. In the 1980s, the production of more than 30,000 tonnes of tobacco would have fallen to 20,000 tonnes, and we had a situation in 2005 and 2004, respectively, if it had fallen to 5,000 tonnes. Yesterday I was saying that the premium was prescribed for one hectare. What you said -- 100 euros per hectare of sown area, it's not a parameter that provides quality in production, nor is the parameter that interferes with agricultural producers for good production. You know that tobacco is the agricultural culture that has the worst position in the agricultural budget and you know that four times the import is higher than exports. Is there anything you can do about it? I'm sure he can. I wouldn't have to fight so much for agricultural producers in this area that, as I told you, nine factories aren't closed. I come from an environment where there is a primary tobacco processing plant, from Love, which is an undeveloped municipality, poor, and you know that tobacco production is mostly done by those farmers, that layer of our population that's poorer. We know that it takes 70 times more to process a hectare than to produce wheat. These are all indicators that you, Mr. Minister, would have to take seriously. In the end, I am absolutely sure that you will not accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party that would lead to an improvement in the quality of this law. But at least do what your friends in Croatia have done – prescribe a regulation to ensure that certain cigarettes produced in Serbia have the status of domestic cigarettes that must contain a certain amount of tobacco produced in Serbia. I agree with all those who think tobacco is something that is evil, which destroys our health, but if economic opportunities have been created for the production of that culture, because you know that we have extremely good climate and land conditions for the production of tobacco... This minister who was before you said that tobacco was produced in Serbia of very poor quality, and personally intervened in importing seed from Brazil. It is clear to everyone, who has never seen a single waist of fresh tobacco, that climate conditions in Brazil and Serbia are incomparable and that the seeds provided for in Brazil's tobacco production cannot be applied to Serbia as well. You said about a billion euros was invested in the tobacco industry. That is true, but in that billion, it also contains the amount of cigarettes production factories in Serbia. You must also know that agricultural producers, together with factories that organise the production and purchase of tobacco, have invested more than 19m euros in this production. When a tobacco-bought factory arrived, which is actually the daughter of Philip Morisa, she began to organize her production on droughts, using the complete equipment they invested in and distributed to agricultural producers the shops for buying and producing tobacco in Serbia. Otherwise, their production is 300,000 tonnes per year, so compare to those five-six thousand in Serbia. When a representative of a factory, one of the good producers in Brazil, said -- what would happen if we had such a situation that the funds were being organised by someone who came to Serbia and didn't invest another penny, what would happen there, he would have to go to jail. The answer is - sir, this is neither Spain nor Germany, this is Serbia, and we can do whatever we want. We can't do it like that, not just because of us, we can't do it because of our farmers. We have to keep trying, with the difficult conditions under which they work and operate, to at least fix that financial effect and provide them with the best possible conditions for production. So, the primary tobacco processing plant in Ljubovija is one of the largest in Serbia after Sainta. It had up to 5 - 6 thousand tonnes of production on an annual basis, and now it has fallen to 1,500 - 2,000 in the best conditions, with the purchase of that amount of tobacco this year cannot be expected, as drought has significantly affected such conditions. Otherwise, my amendment also refers to the removal of the part in Article 45(5), which refers to the fact that the vehicle carrying tobacco processing should be marked with a special label and should have hygiene conditions, as well as other prescribed conditions. My esteemed colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, spoke about the hygiene conditions in the tobacco transport vehicle, so I have nothing to add. I don't know if this is your invention, Mr. Minister, it's been there before, which is why it should be marked by vehicles carrying tobacco? We can assume, for reasons that these vehicles do not need to be controlled, because it's kind of natural, if it's marked to be used for the transport of tobacco products, or cigarettes, it doesn't even need to be controlled. Then you might think, if that vehicle isn't controlled, what kind of situations can occur on the tobacco market. I just have to tell you that the SRS is in favour of maximum control in tobacco production, in the production of tobacco processing, cigarettes, as well as in the transport itself. So that's where we stand for maximum control. We also advocate that, in any form, whether as it was done in Croatia, this member, in which cigarette manufacturers are released from the mandatory ransom, is changed. If that remains, if we do not change anything on this plan, then we will surely completely destroy tobacco production in Serbia, which is otherwise extremely high quality. In a situation where there are about a million unemployed in Serbia, there should be some conditions for people to be employed, as one hectare goes on average to one employee. Multinational companies that bought our tobacco processing factories committed to raise tobacco production to 16800 tonnes in 2008. This would automatically mean the employment of around 8,000 new workers and in the tobacco industry, where the processing of raw tobacco and the production of cigarettes is carried out. I can't judge right now, but if we have in mind how much it's now engaged in direct tobacco production, and how much it's involved in the tobacco industry, then I can freely estimate that a new 30,000 - 40,000 workers would be employed. Is this little in today’s conditions, when individual representatives of local self - administration are also praised with 30 - 50 employees? That's good. That's why we have to do something in this branch to save agricultural production, to help farmers. I don't know if there's a colleague, Milan Nikolic. For those who are not in progress, Mr Nikolic, an authorised SPS representative, when we spoke about the CEFTA agreement, when he had a dilemma about the CEFTA agreement, he said "CEFTA agreement is a dark villa. If we accept the problem. Unless we accept the problem." If we accept, Mr. Nikolic, the CEFTA agreement, that's the problem and the point. There's not - unless we accept. That is why I call on all MPs to accept all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party in the voting day, because they will certainly welcome tobacco producers, and thus also the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6279	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6280	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I'd like to take advantage of the Minister of Agriculture's presence and ask one question. Last year, there was a regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Ministry of Agriculture paid compensation to agricultural households of 40,000 dinars. Namely, any non-commercial household could, if the holder was a farmer, receive 40,000 dinars for every pensioner in the household. Unfortunately, a large number of households did not take advantage of this for a variety of reasons, and I would say, most of all, they were not able to exploit it because they were not timely informed or were not able to physically arrive to register their households, and they have these conditions for registration. I'm interested, and I know with confidence that the previous Ministry had the intention of continuing with this measure, whether this ministry is considering doing so at least next year, if not in this one, that a kind of injustice is corrected, means for those households that haven't used it once, that at least once they use it. A large number of demands were submitted afterwards, you probably know that, it arrived at the Ministry, but this year that regulation obviously doesn't exist. So, is that kind of help primarily for nursing households being considered, at least in the following year, if not this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6281	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6282	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure in Rule 226, and I am requesting a notice and explanation from the Government regarding the latest developments in the concession agreement concerning the highway from Horgos to nowhere. So, first question: what's the name of the concessionist? Another question: who's actually building the highway? Third: who is responsible for the job worth a billion euros? The fourth question: who is obliged to pay concession fees? Question number five: who's responsible for the maintenance of the highway when he's finished? Question 6: What are the obligations of paying the concession? Seven: how will the toll be tariffd? Eight: what is the dynamics of works? Nine: What are the guarantees for that given? Tenth: what are the tycoons here, the government's favorites, actually making concessionaries to build a highway from Horgos to nowhere? Also, I ask the question and ask for an explanation from the competent prosecutor – when will the procedure be initiated for abuse of the official position against the governor of the National Bank of Radovan Jelasic for several crimes, tax evasion, privatisation of the National Savings Bank, manipulation of the country's foreign reserves, manipulation of money from the sale of the "Mobtel" that are on the account of "Euroaxis Bank" in Moscow, as well as parts of the country's foreign reserves that are practically traffic services? We know that the largest tycoons here, like Vojin Lazarevic, are the biggest shareholders of Euroaxis Bank. Personally, I was able to watch the agreements and talks of Governors Jelasic and Vojin Lazarevic twice at the VIP salon of the airport. Furthermore, there should be a review of fraud over cash registers and billions of dinars or millions of euros that have earned the same tycoons again through this manipulation. Finally, to review the role of Governor Jelasic when it comes to the affair of the suitcase. Dejan Simic, who is obviously under the direct influence of Radovan Jelasic, became the director of OTP Bank at the recommendation Radovan Jelasic. I'm looking at the bank's commercials this morning, headed by the director against whom a criminal case is being conducted for extremely serious crimes. Jelasic had to recommend it, so that he would not explain his role in the case. We will inform the peoples and citizens of Serbia of all this in detail when the election of governors of the National Bank comes here on the agenda. What we were saying about the Balinovac, it will be more joy than the story of the crime of Radovan Jelasic. After that, I don't think the family will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6283	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 to replace the word "two" with the word "four." To explain to the citizens of Serbia, i.e. The main reason I submitted the amendment is that, in the basic law of Article 46, it was said that the license for retail trade in small tobacco products was issued for a year, and now in the proposal to amend the tobacco law they want to change that year into two. My suggestion is that it's been four years. The main reason and basic motive is this: the annual retail and wholesale license was 4,400 dinars; people who deal with tobacco sales came to the former agency, i.e. Today's tobacco management in Belgrade and paid a tax of 4,400 dinars a year, and since we've heard from my predecessors, a fellow SRS colleague, who's looking for conditions to sell tobacco, which is completely pointless, I think this tax you want to hide, i.e. to raise to eight thousand, to change now in two years. So people who deal with tobacco sales don't benefit from this law and change this law. In this chain of production and to the distribution of tobacco, it is absolutely possible to charge the budget through several types of taxes and taxis, such as VAT, profit tax, and the final distributor, retail and wholesale, must pay this tax that you want to impose and which so far was 4,000, and from now on it will be at two years eight. So, like I said, traders don't benefit from this law. Mr. Minister, if you're short of money in your budget, I think you have more instruments, ways to make up for it instead of the amount of this fee. Since the tobacco mafia is one of the largest and most developed in our country, you have a far better tool for filling the budget than you want by this law to achieve – just stop and find a cigarette picker which is black-distributed in our country. It's a huge money, much bigger money than you want to achieve with this law. The retailes and wholesales that want to do so or get permission at first in the solution already say they can deal with the sale and distribution of tobacco. What later is required to remove the permit so far every year? Now you'll most likely vote to take it out for two years. I suggest that it be for four years, since you're raising the price, so when we divide these four years by the fee you want to impose, it's going to be smaller than it is now - 4400, which they have to pay every year. In reason of the government why it does not accept my amendment, it is mentioned that it is easier to control objects dealing with tobacco sales, which has nothing to do with the explanation at all. The basic principle in the law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, what you want to achieve, is to charge a fee that you will impose on shops, retailes and wholesales. Simply, the relationship between the basic law and the supplementary law has been two or four years. I just want to ask you, the congregation majority and you, Mr. Minister, when you go to the trade or the store, how you're going to explain to the merchants why you want to change your license from one year to two, and in fact you're hiding that you've raised a fee from four to eight thousand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6285	Thank you to the MP. Mrs. Vervain Radeta answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6286	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Zivkov gave a great explanation for why he submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, but I saw from the scene that the minister had not heard a single word, as he spoke to his party friends while fellow Zivkov spoke in this place. Article 45. The tobacco law was an interesting topic in 2005 when we from the SRS tried to convince Mladjan Dinkic, because on behalf of the government it represented this law, that the conditions provided for in Article 45 for retailers of small tobacco products are something that is almost impossible to meet. In fact, it is impossible to meet someone who is exclusively involved in this work and who does this work fairly and in accordance with the law. These conditions can be met by those who have a cigarette-selling kiosk and wide-use goods of only farce and do other jobs and hide behind the official kiosk where they sell cigarettes. My colleagues, Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric, spoke of what is truly amazing – that it did not occur to you, when you were changing the law, to change the provisions on sanitary-hygienic conditions that you provided for these tobacco trades. I remember when we talked to Mladjan Dinkic here, we suggested it would be good for him to maybe order them to have Jacuzzi tubs in place, when they already have a 9 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. You probably thought, Minister, since you're confirming this, given that you haven't changed, to the Futura Plus kiosks. Let me remind you, these are former press kiosks, sold by Zoran Djindjic to Stanko Subotiæ Canet, and then a large number of people who worked in those kiosks were out of work, because Cane quit everyone and he brought some of his own, who must have been better able to cope with his kiosks. It is also amazing that you did not react when counterpart Sreta Peric said it was inappropriate that it was an obligation for one who has a kiosk and who sells cigarettes to have a vehicle for his own purposes, which is clearly marked as transporting tobacco products and meeting sanitary hygiene conditions, as well as other prescribed conditions. You know, someone who sells in a kiosk cigarette, "milk" chocolates, salt sticks, gums, if I didn't pick up all those tiny products, they'd have to have so many cars for their own products and each one to write -- these gums, these candy, these chocolates, cigarettes. I still needed cigarettes by species to predict. Imagine, Mr. Minister, when you were buying eggs in Svilinco and bringing them to Belgrade, if you had an obligation under the law to have a vehicle that says, I don't know, an egg, or in what way that vehicle would be marked. That's inappropriate. When it comes to amendment to Article 7, why did we intervene? You realized it wasn't a good solution, because that basic law stipulated that these licenses for the sale of tobacco were issued for a year and you understood that it was an inappropriate deadline. You only moved it for two years. Our proposal is, Minister, and I really ask you on behalf of those people who do so, to move that deadline to four years. If you oblige them to pay a fee twice as much as when the law is passed, if they have to meet all these conditions in those traffics, if they have to have 20 vehicles with different markings, then at least let it last for four years. Give some legal certainty to the citizens. Don't let anyone invest everything they have, start doing something to feed the family to some kiosk and just while the work gets worked out you say – license expired, no more, let's do Jovo again, or we'll give this to someone else because we don't like you. Mr. Minister, you should think a little more about the citizens of Serbia, because you are not a minister for yourself but for the sake of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6287	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP Sreto Peric came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's the opportunity, on this amendment, to show that you are different from the Minister of Agriculture in 2000. The conditions for selling tobacco processing are very strict and we in the SRS feel that these conditions should remain, we do not insist on any change when it comes to selling tobacco products, or cigarettes. A colleague, Dragan Zivkov, suggested that this period should be valid for four years at the rate of payment. This is the minimum in what the SRS could understand from the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, otherwise we believe that when entering a certain retail facility and meeting these conditions and paying taxes, or obligations that stand, it should be left with the right to traffic cigarettes for a little while until the moment that it logs out. There's no reason for this to be renewed, as it has been, for a year now, and you're proposing for two years. Indeed, apart from robbing the owner of retail facilities by the state, there is no other reason. I must remind you, of course this does not apply to Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and other large cities, that the average openness of a retail facility in Serbia is six months to a year. You're wondering if that's possible? Well, here, let me tell you a village, Mr. Jovanovic knows where it is, Selanac. There are only two types of cigarettes sold: "classic" and "eternal". Those who deal with the traffic of cigarettes on a large condition are the owners of retail stores to hold those cigarettes that can be sold in Belgrade, Slavia, in a circle of two and in other larger populated places. With all this in mind, and for the sake of necessity, because of the function of a retail facility, and in such a village as Selanac must stick to that minimum of cigarettes. What you could do is accept Mr. Dragan Zivkov's amendment; in one part you would help the owners of retail facilities. I remind you once again, if it's not about providing the funds for the election campaign, which you're expecting soon, then sharing... As he shared in the previous meeting, the finance minister to agricultural producers, who received 40,000 and were then satisfied and happy, and their sons and grandchildren who lived at that time in the joint household, finished some colleges, even medical colleges; these 40,000 were spent, and their grandchildren or children are not busy today. We should be much more concerned with conditions for the employment of Serbian citizens, and less about how to get our hands in their pockets more effectively and thus damage them. I hope you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6289	The proposal to add a new member of the 7a after article 7a was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 7a to Article 54 after Article 7. Law 4th word "a half-year" is replaced by the words "one year a year". It has always been known, even in Serbia, that tobacco acts intoxicately on officials. The laws are created exactly as they correspond to large monopolies in tobacco production, as well as to tobacco merchants. Here, for example, this bill corrects what has ruined, conditionally speaking, CEFTA. Some promises made to those who privatized the tobacco industry from Nis, the tobacco industry from Vranj should obviously fall into the water. No one came to Serbia to buy factories because they love us, but to get as much profit out of it as possible. The question is whether under new conditions "Philip Morris" or "British American Tobacco" would ever come to Serbia, because the difference in the price of raw materials, as well as the price of products, is far greater in the European Union than in Serbia. This amendment concerns Article 54. The law changes the word "half-yearly adjustment of compensation" where it should stand "once a year". The reason is simple and logical. If the responsible persons in this country claim that the inflation rate is low, the foreign currency rate is still still, then why double-yearly adjust the amount of compensation? We keep hearing from the governor of the National Bank of Serbia that he convinces us of a solid dinar. Let me remind you, it's the governor who can single out hundreds of thousands of euros, maybe a million, for a villa on the Dedinj, and you Serbian citizens see how you'll survive. This Article 54 regulates the registration of all persons involved in the import of tobacco, processed tobacco and tobacco products. So now, because of the CEFTA agreement, we will have a very different attitude towards potential cigarette and tobacco distributors in Serbia. Now there will be more interested persons to do these jobs. There has been an increase in the potential of individual earnings which are already in some way reflected in the dealings of the distribution of cigarettes and tobacco products from imports. Due to the CEFTA agreement, they will be in a more favourable situation, given that some protection barriers are being removed due to the domestic tobacco industry. I would also mention the amount of compensation referred to in Article 54. The fee for registration in the register of tobacco and tobacco importers is five million dinars, or 62,500 euros, but the government is wide-ranging, making it easier for even those old/new importers to impose such a large "imposed" so that these five million dinars can be paid in five years in five wars, i.e. 12,500 euros a year. It's known that they're just making enormous sums of money from selling tobacco products, so this comes to them, in the jargon, like some kind of change. This is a direct way to penetrate foreign companies dealing with the production of cigarettes, and above all from Croatia, not to say from Rovinj, that through an enhanced network of distributors they will win Serbia's market. So what happens to us in the food industry, the construction industry, when it comes to the privatisation of Serbian companies by Croatian companies, is now slowly being realized in the tobacco industry. I'm just wondering if this is how the state would stand up for domestic producers if the Vranya and the Nis tobacco industry hadn't been privatized yet, maybe this is a fear of companies as powerful as Philip Morris or British American tobacco. Had those DIN and DIV companies remained in previous status before privatisation, no one from the government would have considered the problem of domestic producers. Duvan as a raw material can now enter Macedonia, Croatia or another country, because it is said there is no discrimination under WTO rules. In all this, the shivering damage of domestic tobacco producers as basic raw materials. There is now a minister of agriculture and it would be nice to come out and say something to farmers who produce tobacco in their fields, parcels, how they will now sell their products when Serbia's tobacco products producers are no longer obliged to buy. Where will they go with them and what will they do in the future? The minister should also tell the agricultural producers, which Zoran Krasic asked nicely yesterday, if anyone would be responsible for the ruined contaminated land left over after planting a strange variety of tobacco. How did that seed even get to our tobacco manufacturer? In Article 54, we see that under the registration of the importer register, the registration of those who will legally import basic tobacco raw materials for the purposes of the tobacco industry is now under even more favourable circumstances. Let us not forget that in other countries farmers who produce tobacco countries or producers subsidize. So their cost of production will be lower than the price of tobacco production in Serbia. How, then, can you be competitive at the price of raw materials? It is obvious that imported raw materials will be cheaper than domestic ones, so our agricultural producers will be only collateral damage to balance the government of the Republic of Serbia between domestic and foreign cigarette producers. In the end, let's ask the government's representatives what about the tobacco mob affair? The whole of Serbia was shaken by this affair involving many structures from the executive government and the underworld. We don't just know how the CEFTA agreement and this law will affect their illegal affairs, but they'll probably be satisfied by changing some attitude or member of this law. In the end, let me say something about the Svilinite. Half the government, those members from the Democratic Party, came to Svilajnac; simply, the people recognized your story and you suffered a great defeat where you were. If all those dead people whose signatures were falsified by your members and if all those people who are on temporary work abroad had voted, there were thousands of them, whose signatures you forged, you might have won, but in any case, the people recognized your stories that you've deceived the people all along.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6291	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought, Minister, that after my yesterday's interpretation of the amendment, for 15 minutes, you would come out and explain the issue of premiums, however, I see that you have remained consistent with your work as it is. I tried to explain to you yesterday that these changes and additions to the tobacco law would be good if you put the producers of raw tobacco above the processors, when these people, the producers of one of the most gentle agricultural cultures, the Ministry of Agriculture came into contact and provided them with loans for irrigation systems, not to wait for Spasovdan and look up if the rain would fall. Not to mention climate change, that the city, especially those who sow large areas under the tobacco, does damage within five minutes. The farmer's only left to look for the tallest branch on a tree, because he's just about to be, God forbid, hang himself. I've instructed you, Mr. Minister, that you and the MUP must coordinate with the purchase of tobacco in 2007. In 2006, I gave you an example of a black ransom: when last year was a euro and 35 cents, then the gentlemen from Jesic's Indjija and the Monus factory were buying it, meaning black, in the Central and Northern District, two euros each. Now that the factories tell the agricultural producers of raw tobacco, you will have the price of the first class of the euro and 80 cents, the second class of the euro and 70 cents, now these buyers are making and offering two euros and 20 cents. It's for the agricultural producer good, but he has a contract and a commitment to the processor. There's going to be a conflict, an end to the contract, because he's going to try to sell normally to this on black because he gives him 40 cents more per kilogram of first class. Check out what happens in the field when it comes to gentlemen who are interested in getting raw tobacco factories in India "Monus", accept co-operation with the MUP and let them do it nicely, and please, Minister, come out for a pay phone and say whether tobacco producers will receive a premium this year and at what amount will that premium be?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6293	Thank you, Mr. Kristin. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of my amendment is to delete Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law because the SRS considers that the solution so far is better than what is proposed by the amendments. In general, the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law contains a whole series of changes that represent a change to worse than the solutions so far. Since I have not had the opportunity to discuss the amendment submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic (the president of the National Assembly has not seen me), I will now take the opportunity to explain what is really the basic intensity of those who have proposed amendments to the tobacco law. Their main goal is to protect importers and foreign companies that produce tobacco products, so cigarettes, and, on the other hand, to load as much as possible, in-coherent producers of raw tobacco and tobacco processing. It's enough to look into the tobacco law, the basic law you passed two years ago, to see that you have, in fact, freed many financial obligations both importers and manufacturers of tobacco products. You've freed them from the obligation to invest their deposits and file bank guarantees. In doing so, you have maximum restrictively regulated the rights of those who deal with tobacco treatment. Yesterday, I said in my statement that Mr. Minister simply cannot explain what legal mechanisms they are that anyone who deals with tobacco protection protects his rights, in case he believes that his rights are violated, in administrative proceedings before the tobacco department. Namely, one who deals with tobacco processing does not have the right to appeal, nor the Office for Tobacco and the Ministry of Finance, and you, of course, have given him the right to initiate an administrative dispute that protects his rights against Serbia's Supreme Court. When we from the Serbian Radical Party have in many cases pointed to one bad practice that you have been applying for several years, which is that you first set very long deadlines for the application of a law, even when that deadline expires, you re-translate it, when we pointed out that this practice is harmful, dangerous, that it destroys the credibility of the state, your MPs laughed, yawned, came out of the hall, etc. We have now come to a rather unpleasant situation and we have brought those who deal with tobacco processing into an extremely unfavourable position: they have neither the right to appeal to the Office for Tobacco, or the Ministry of Finance, nor can they initiate a administrative dispute for one simple reason - by the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, you are the beginning of the work of the administrative court, which is due to resolve administrative disputes in the Republic of Serbia in the first degree, postponed for 1 January 2007. Meanwhile, you have not changed the law, the administrative court has failed to function, and the Supreme Court of Serbia, which until then has had the authority to settle administrative disputes, has simply not been in charge since 1 January 2007. Now a fundamental legal question arises: how will one who deals with tobacco processing protect his rights? There is not a single legal mechanism; it has no right to appeal to the Ministry of Finance, nor can it initiate an administrative dispute because there is no competent court that could resolve the administrative dispute. On the other hand, you have freed those who import cigarettes and those who produce them, which are large companies, any financial obligations -- neither have the obligation to invest, nor have the obligation to make bank guarantees, but that is why you have the full burden of implementing this law, which is otherwise bad, put on the backs of small, small producers and those involved in the processing of tobacco, among which there are a lot of entrepreneurs. Instead of encouraging entrepreneurship, freeing them from a whole series of financial obligations, you have done the opposite: you are loading them with obligations, but therefore you are freeing all possible obligations for tobacco importers and cigarette manufacturers. Such a policy is extremely unfair. It is not in the spirit of the economic policy that can bring prosperity to Serbia and all those amendments that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted to the tobacco law, i.e. the draft law amending the tobacco law, are directed in that direction. You burden those who earn extra profits on the Serbian market, therefore, importers and cigarette manufacturers, and stimulate the appropriate economic policy measures of those involved in the production of raw tobacco and tobacco processing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6295	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Antić submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 8a be added after Article 8. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has invested a great deal of energy with the desire to correct the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to its amendments and to help both manufacturers and sellers, as well as the consumption of cigarettes. This amendment of mine is about smokers. The amendment is to Article 77. The tobacco law, stressing the harmfulness of tobacco and the obligation of the manufacturer to print both general and special warnings on tobacco harmfulness. As for the general warning in the second position of this member, I fully agree with what it says, and what is well known to all smokers – smoking kills, tobacco smoke damages people in your area. There is no objection, but as for warnings within this article, and there are 11, it seems to me that they are not sufficiently in the function of explaining tobacco harmfulness. With that in mind, I submitted an amendment to item 2) of Section 3 which reads: "Smokers risk cancer". Those words, in my opinion, need to be replaced by the words "smoking causes cancer". One definition that is significantly clearer, which should mean some kind of prevention and fully fits into the spirit of this chapter of the Law and this article that gives all smokers the knowledge of how harmful tobacco is, and I don't think there's a need to talk about it. It's enough to look up to countries from environments that put a lot of resources and energy into reducing the number of smokers, through bans on smoking in public places, indoors. We have such a law, too, but it is unfortunately insufficiently applied and not controlled by its application. I hope that these amendments, which Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted to this part of the tobacco law, will be completed by that legal void.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6297	Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tobacco Law to delete a full member of the 9th. Why did we insist on it? We believe that, in the basic law of Article 29(7), this is better regulated: "to undertake to produce or purchase domestically processed tobacco annually in the amount of at least 50% of the annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic, with that quantity not less than 2,000 tonnes per year". Here is the amendment and addition of the tobacco law in Article 9 above – 40% of its own production. Yesterday, a colleague, Zoran Krasic, explained it very nicely and illustrated it; in one photograph he showed you our domestic producers who are in their tobacco fields, and on the other he showed one of the leading managers of Philip Morris, former DIN. When privatising the tobacco industry in Serbia in those contracts that were later signed, they had obligations to protect domestic production for a number of years. However, this Article 9 is a threat to domestic tobacco producers. Thus, they cannot compete with foreign producers, so domestic tobacco production in Serbia is being destroyed. Here, in response to the government, you gave an explanation, and there was a lot of words about the CEFTA agreement, against which the Serbian Radical Party was, that by signing the CEFTA agreement, we are obliged to accept all those contractual obligations that stand in the agreement. This automatically creates space for all European tobacco manufacturers and tobacco dealers, especially from Croatia; the Rovinj factory has a major impact on our market. It will simply destroy domestic tobacco production and our manufacturers. The Serbian Radical Party insists that domestic production and domestic producers are protected and therefore requires the erasure of this Article 9. I think this argument of the government is simply not acceptable, because there is no justification in the current situation as it is in Serbia, as regards tobacco production and domestic producers. Otherwise, the CEFTA agreement, in addition to obliging us to apply all these decisions and all those members of that agreement, has a lot of impact on our agrarian policy, and we know what our agriculture is in. I know you've only been on this post for four months. You were the president of the Chamber of Commerce, but you certainly weren't detailed and you're only now getting to know each other; you can see for yourself that our agricultural producers, not only in the tobacco industry, but also producers of all other cultures, simply cannot mate with European producers. We must be very careful when adopting these European agreements, because we will come to the point of destroying our domestic producers not only in the tobacco industry, but also in other forms of agriculture. In order to protect all of this, I think you should accept the amendment to Article 9, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, for the sake of the interests of domestic tobacco producers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6299	The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6300	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we spoke of amendments and amendments to the tobacco law in principle, we here as MPs of the SPS Group held that we would not vote for these amendments and additions to the law. When I discussed this bill, I said that I support submitting the amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. I'd like to point out that the government has been passing this bill on amendments and additions to the law since 15 June, when we received it... In the meantime, I think the government's September 7th amendment, which refers to the reduction of the mandatory ransom from 40% to 30% for the current year to 31. 12. In 2007. It seems to me that during that period, even the government itself did not know what kind of solution to offer. She offered us 40% in the established text, to reduce after the amendment to 30% mandatory ransom, with a proposal that this category of compulsory ransom should be abolished from 1 January 2008. As an SPS parliamentary group, we have declared that we will not support this law. The government cited the legal basis, the reasons and effects of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law. We can't agree with them, because this Article 9, which provides for a mandatory buy-in of 30% to 31. 12. In 2007, it simply determines the abolition of this obligation from 1 January 2008. We are against such an attitude, or we will not support this law, but we will support this amendment. There is still time for the Minister himself on behalf of the Government, or the Government to accept this amendment, to protect our production. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I see, and the works of the MPs who discussed it, is that with this proposal from the Government, or the resolution ministries, we will have a decline in tobacco production, on the one hand; on the other hand, we will certainly have bigger imports of tobacco, when it comes to these factories produced by final products, or those owners who bought our tobacco factories in Vranje, etc. I would like to point out that there will be a particular impact on the areas of Machvanski, Kolubar County, Pcinj County, Vojvodina, and also on tobacco fermentation factories, for example, our factory in Ljubljana, also a tobacco factory in Choka. That's why we're against it. I think our factory in Ljubljana and our producers will be particularly affected by the reason that, from their crafts assets, the tobacco factory in Ljubovija has allocated funds for droughts, which, under certain contractual relations, with a delayed payment deadline in the amount of tobacco, has given to producers to deal with this production. What's that gonna make? We'll have double damage: the decline in production, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we'll have damage to the failure of the manufacturer to the tobacco factory in Ljubovija. That's why we're against it, and we want to say that the existing mandatory buy-in solution was clearer and much better for producers. We won't lead to a drop in production if we keep the category of mandatory ransom. Moreover, we should add that the government has slowed down its response, it proposed amendments and additions to the law, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the resolution ministries did not determine the level of the tobacco premiums, did not protect the producers. I ask the question - on the basis of which criteria will the manufacturer who wants to deal with planting and tobacco production be defined for production? I think the logic is that the Government or the RES is proposing tobacco premiums for next year, in order to make it clear to manufacturers what kind of production they are entering and what guarantees they have, on the one hand, from the state, on the other hand from potential buyers. Once again, I would like to repeat that the SPS is calling on the minister and the government not to cancel the category of mandatory ransom. We will support the erasure of Article 9, i.e. An amendment submitted by the People's MP, Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6301	Thank you, Ambassador Vido Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Comrade Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I explained my amendment, I didn't want to explain the fundamental problem of tobacco distribution. The present and previous government has distributed tobacco to the Big Brother, i.e. Foreign tobacco producers who bought our domestic tobacco production, who gave themselves the right to distribute tobacco only two or three houses in the country. People who do this in practice have come across tobacco distributors that come into retail and nice excise stamps across the cellophane. You, Minister, know very well what a crime it is and how the distribution of tobacco takes place, which is said in our people under the grain. Direct Trade, Megatabak and Veletabak in the country are doing a job for tobacco producers who bought our domestic industry. This amendment, submitted by Veroljub Arsic, should be accepted for the reasons I stated, because those involved in the distribution of tobacco put themselves, and the entire government, in the function of tobacco producers who bought our domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6303	I thank Ambassador Zivkov. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about that amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Here you go. I give my word to Mr. Free Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all the MPs who have been carefully reading the law and discussing these days wanted the law to be fixed and to provide a better quality position for primary tobacco producers in Serbia, but certainly also processing capacities in our country. I've listened very carefully, recorded it, and I'm going to say once again that we have made it very clear and reasoned that the amendments have not been accepted. However, I think it would be good to make two or three comments about the discussion. The first refers to the expectations of primary manufacturers related to the depletion of tobacco production in this year. We've prepared a regulation that should be held at the government session next week. I expect the government to adopt this and that the premiums for this year's tobacco production will go from 65 dinars to "berley", 80 dinars for "virginia" and 110 dinars for "oriental". This, I hope, will give tobacco producers a slightly better overall financial effect, and also stimulate production in the coming period. The production of tobacco belongs to the strategic types of production in our agriculture. As of next year, we will be much more systematic, analytical and from the beginning of the year, since I believe that the budget will be adopted in the deadlines within which it is prescribed, to all tobacco producers, as well as to all other producers in agriculture, giving conditions under which we will assist and stimulate agricultural production, thus also the production of tobacco. I believe that the production of tobacco with these measures will be stimulated and will be increased in the coming years. For several years, we have been having a problem with providing domestic tobacco production to processors and factories that privatized our tobacco industry to meet their legal obligation to buy, first of all, 40%, and this year, 30% tobacco. There is a question of quantity, which is primarily but also a question of quality, because the brand of tobacco made in our factories has such a recipe that some of the domestic tobacco varieties are not acceptable. I have no reason to defend the large multinational companies present on our market, but they have had trouble using tobacco that they bought in Serbia and mixing it with tobacco that they imported, by prescription, provide the quality of those brands they produce. What we do is, through the measures of agrarian policy, we encourage the production of those varieties of tobacco that are wanted, and I expect that the growth of these productions in the coming years will also ensure the balance of foreign trade in tobacco production, as we still import much more tobacco products into Serbia than we export. However, we should all be aware, if these factories hadn't come to Serbia, probably from some of the surrounding countries, above all this region of CEFTA, would have produced tobacco and placed on our market, because the habits of those who smoke tobacco are that they often don't buy food or anything else, and they buy tobacco. I would also like to point out and answer one question from the MP regarding non-commercial holdings and the amount that has been granted to non-competitional land. We abolished it for one very clear reason: it is a measure which, above all, is in the domain of social policy, not in the area of encouraging agricultural production. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has the objective, task and the main motive to help the producer and those active in agriculture, and by the measures of agrarian policy – regulations that have allowed the spending of this year's agrarian budget, insufficient, but I believe that it will be much more high-quality compared to some previous years, we want to encourage this – while we leave it to the competent restoring ministries to deal with non-competitional land and those who need social assistance. I think it's much fairer and much fairer and that the resolute ministries that are in charge will find a way for those who are not in production, but they need a different kind of help, that help provides. Thank you again for your contribution. I'll see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6305	Thank you. The word came from Mr Dragan Todorovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6306	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, and Mr. Minister, you were chosen not by the people, but by the congregation; when it was a direct choice by the people, then you would be a people. I don't think you understood or wanted to understand the essence of the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. First of all, the observation referred to the fact that from year to year the government is trying to meet tobacco producers, or cigarette manufacturers and those who bought tobacco processing factories. They're trying, normally, to get their own down to a minimum, to make more profit, and the desire of the state and our people who produce tobacco is to make as much money in this business as possible. The interest of the state is to enable our citizens, not large multinational companies, to do better in this business. All of this that we've been pointing to is basically that you're going to meet those who want to profit on our citizens' backs, because if you don't, we're going to import cheaper, and you're going to make it happen. Yours is not to allow them such a way of obtaining additional income, but to enable our citizens who deal with not only this production, but also any other production to go better in some real market conditions. That's what every country in Europe does. You have had the opportunity to hear from SRS MPs who have listed EU countries that are not at all interested in anything but their own interest, the interest of the state and their citizens. You here are further reducing what you have established by the previous law from 50 percent of the mandatory ransom to 40, to 30, etc. You give away, so to speak, complete faith to tobacco processors that the tobacco produced by our peasant is not a proper quality. Did you examine how it was possible to divide a seed of tobacco that was not only inadequate, but that seven years after its planting that land was completely unusable? Why didn't the state try to give our tobacco producers adequate tobacco? It doesn't take much to convince a healthy peasant what his interest is, he'll accept everything he needs without any problems. You don't do it, you don't care, it seems, to allow our peasant to produce what the processors are looking for, and you can do it without any problems. As MPs, we show you that you are required, as Minister of Agriculture, to help our country and our citizens, and not to those who produce tobacco around the world, they have created a monopoly throughout the world. The essence of the new world order is the rule of multinational companies. The point is to get to the market, reduce the price of raw materials, reduce the labour price; also, free flow of capital, without any restrictions, and the possibility of influence directly on power. They are not concerned with small things, but by direct influence on power, through legal projects and proposals, providing themselves with privileged status. It is in all your sights, both industry and agriculture; absolutely wherever you look, where multinational companies have entered, our production is shut down completely, unless the price of our raw materials fits. They normally move on to cheaper ones, but we don't care, it's our interest that our citizens work and earn and that our country develops, not multinational companies. That's what you have to do, Mr. Minister, if you really want to be a national minister, as you said at the beginning. It is a basic task both of the Government and of the Ministry, not of allowing multinational companies to earn extra on our backs and on our backs. Em got cheaply these factories, and now they're gonna eliminate our production completely, and they're gonna get the market. You have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6307	I thank Mr Dragan Todorovic and thank Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic for his participation in the debate. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. In order to obtain the necessary opinions of the two competent committees, on legislation and security, I am giving a 35-minute break. The session will continue at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF TRADES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Momir Marković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Bozidar Delić, together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac, Slavko Jerković, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Krasić, Bozidar Koprivica, Aleksandar Martinović, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Veroljub Arsic, Nebojsa Stefanović, Sreto Perić, Milovan Radovanović and Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, as well as the Defence and Security Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Defence and Security on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize in advance, this is not the use of a business opportunity for any obstruction of Parliament's work, but I would like to point out a very important problem facing our country, or our society, and to take advantage of the presence of the police minister. I'm not going to mention names, because it's not the point of opening the polemics to "eat" the weather, but I really want to point out some of the problems that are extremely big when it comes to our country and crime that can be legalized in some way. That's the kind of crime I'm going to tell you about, it's about the Old Paz municipality and the land purchase, the big complex, almost 100 acres. The land is bought as a agricultural land, paid about four euros a square metre. When such land is purchased, then all efforts are made to repurpose the land in the congregation. When it's re-purposed, the price of that land goes up, like, five, six, seven to ten times. Only in this case is over 20m euros. Then it involves, more or less, those who can influence this kind of work, this kind of crime, being legalized, from council members in the municipality, to MPs, to other relationships and interventions affecting such a crime to be committed. There's a lot of pressure and attack on the president of the Old Paz municipality of Mr. Srdy Komazec, which we pointed to. About six criminal charges have been filed, I'm not going to tell you by name, so there's no controversy here, about trying to make it possible for people who went into this business to finish it and make about 20 million euros and, normally, to distribute that money according to the contribution, how who managed to contribute to it. I'll just tell you, let's just say, that a criminal complaint has been filed against former Chief of Staff Prince Alexander, his nickname is, otherwise, "Pistol", he was the head of the OUP of Star Paz, because of the criminal act of participation in ending the will of the citizens shown in the elections using the official position. The criminal report shall state the place, time and eleven committees present. The prosecutor dismissed the application as unfounded, although at that time none of the 11 witnesses were heard by the competent authorities. And we, Mr. Minister, informed you, among other things, from the Serbian Parliament's pay phone about the illegal work of the then chief, who was completely connected to the construction mafia. And now there's a big problem in the Old Paz municipality. As many as 20 and a few council members resigned, counting that such resignations would come into a situation to block the work of the Assembly and that temporary administrations would therefore be introduced and they would finish the job. I know that the headquarters of many parties do not have the ability to control their councilors, specifically in Old Paz, that they simply failed their obedience. It is more important for them to earn some money in this business than the interest of citizens, what is the interest of their parties. I know for a fact that the headquarters don't stand behind them and that's why I'm noting who's involved by some parties, that's why. Minister, I'm telling you that you have legal means to prevent this, because criminal charges have been filed. Criminal charges for falsifying the resignations of some councilmen have been filed. Why don't you do your job? Why isn't the D.A. working? Why are you complicit in this crime? The state was destroyed thanks to a crime that is completely legalized. You know well how it is done: if the land without a single dinar, this land is invested as a stake to get a loan from the bank, a magnificent facility is built, sold, credit and a millin return. But it's a crime. Please do something when it comes to the municipalities of Old Paz to make this impossible. Don't say tomorrow that you didn't know that you would allow individuals to earn more than 20 million euros on one job. It's not just this community, but I'm talking about Old Paz now, where this can be prevented. You have a falsification of the resignations of two councilmen. So you have all the elements. That's a fact. Please, and I ask you, Mr. President, to influence, to ask about it, and you will see who is taking part in it and to try in some way to influence, where you can, not to accomplish this in Old Paz. I'm really sorry about this time, but I think it was very important that I draw attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6310	It's important and thank you for pointing to the situation. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6311	Ladies and gentlemen, I have warned several times that Serbia is in an unconstitutional state, that Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and Oliver Dulic are responsible for this. Today I repeat it, of course, first because of the public, and then because Mr Oliver Dulic is present, because when I said it, he was not present. Their responsibility is that the National Assembly, thanks to their unhappiness, has skipped its obligations under Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. Today, we are discussing in detail the bill on travel documents. When we discussed this law in principle, the SRS MPs pointed out some of the things that are important for the bill, and I will repeat some of it, because you governmental gentlemen, and I suppose the majority of the assembly, I suppose, because they will vote for this law, you deceive the citizens of Serbia with your story that the adoption of this law opens up all our paths, that we come to the White Schengen list, that there will be certain visa reliefs. On the same day that the principle debate was concluded, instead of the media notifying what the MPs were drawing attention to when it came to this bill, all the media informed us that on that very day, Bozidar Djelic, in the presence of Tanja Miscevic, signed a protocol on the basis of which we came to the White Schengen list some year ago. It's just not true. That's not true, because there are a lot of conditions that we haven't discussed here yet. The bottom line is that this signing and obtaining visa relief applies exclusively to people who have diplomatic passports. So that applies to politicians, athletes, top artists, mostly people who haven't had any problems getting a visa before. All politicians, including MPs, have the opportunity to get a diplomatic passport, and they get it without any problems, receive a visa for six months and a year, too, without any problems. That's what citizens need to know. Not because I believe that politicians and people who exercise power in Serbia should not have diplomatic passports or that they should not have a visa, of course they should and of course it is necessary to travel, but I am saying this because this law and your story of visa relief only applies to the elite in Serbia and not to the people. We Serbian radicals are pushing for this parliament to pass laws that will benefit Serbia's citizens specifically. So all citizens of Serbia, not just the single elite. Also, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to fighting and going some long way to get these visa reliefs, which, of course, we don't mind and we don't mind, taking a little bit more account of opening new places, raising wages, not being surprised by citizens one day when they can get visas, so they find themselves wondering what visas they need when they don't have the money to survive in Serbia, let alone travel around the white world. I would also like to point out, that is what I was saying in the principle debate, that this law on travel documents when we adopt it will not lead to better, but will not bring all citizens of the Republic of Serbia into an equal position. I claim that even under this law, the Dutch embassy will not issue a Dutch visa or Olivera Miletovic, or any other friend of Dr Vojislav Seselj, and it is about the amendment I have submitted. Mrs. Jadranka Seselj will certainly not receive a diplomatic passport and an unlimited visa, but every time she visits Dr. Vojislav Seselj, a procedure must be implemented and every time a new document is delivered, etc. I repeat that we insist that all citizens of Serbia must be equal before the law, especially that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take care of every citizen, wherever he is. Also, I haven't received an answer in the past few days, and there was a time when the question was addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia about how many ministers, your colleagues, Mr Jocic, in the Serbian government have passports from other countries. It's an important piece of information. Now again, I insist we get that information. When it comes to Article 9 and the amendment that I have submitted to this member on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, for those who have not been familiar with the amendment and for the sake of the public, Article 9 refers to the issue of diplomatic and official passports. The position of the 3rd member states: "A diplomatic passport and official passport may also be issued to a member of the family of persons to whom such passport has been issued, who lives with him in a joint household and travels abroad or stays abroad." I asked on behalf of the parliamentary group that this position be changed, I asked to delete that a diplomatic or official passport may be given to a member of the family of persons travelling abroad, because we find it unnecessary to issue a diplomatic, or official passport to a member of the narrow family of persons who has been issued such a passport only for a specific official journey. Otherwise, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that such passports cannot be obtained by family members of the persons representing us in consular representations or in embassies, because those faces are not diplomats. They are members of the families of our diplomats, but they are ordinary citizens, like any other citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, we have not submitted the amendment because we know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has written to us in an explanation why my amendment is not accepted. The government has explained to me that it does not accept the amendment since the right of a member of the family of persons to whom a diplomatic or official passport has been issued to obtain such a travel document, under the prescribed conditions, is an integral part of the position and special rights that they recognise international conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. We know about all the international acts, Mr. Jocic and the government gentlemen, and we also know about all the international acts that protect human rights. Only we from the Serbian Radical Party are talking about human rights violations of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, and none of you from the government have thought to make at least once in these five years and to call for an international act, which shows that basic human rights are being violated by the president of Serbian radicals. But that's why you want to make it possible for anyone who gets a diplomatic passport, even if he travels for one day and goes to a short meeting, that he can take a woman shopping with a diplomatic passport. It is not acceptable for us Serbian radicals. What would this mean if our amendment wasn't adopted? So Boris Tadic, let's say, to his dear George, that's when we're going to issue him a diplomatic passport and a wife. He's going to Sarkozy next week, then we're gonna give him a passport for his mistress. Then he goes to Stipe Mesic for a bow and an apology, and then we'll give him a passport for the kids. What is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, for example, for members of the family, Boris Tadic, who goes through the white world, to receive diplomatic passports? We have the interest of him going there to represent Serbia, to fight for Serbian national interests, to fight for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, and not to come after each coming from some third-rate officials who visit the white world to come here with a different, "their" opinion, and then to be completely open to the main committee of their party, says that he and the DS will fight to join the European Union at all costs. I ask him in front of the Serbian public does that mean "at all costs" at the cost of Kosovo and Metohija? The SRS will never agree to this and will never accept it. I repeat, Mr. Jocic, you listened very carefully to what we said when we discussed the law in principle. You even had certain dialogues with the MPs, or you responded to our remarks. Then you promised, also from this place, that you would look at all the amendments, that you would seriously study them and that you would probably accept some amendments from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. The proof that you didn't look at it seriously or responsibly, Mr. Jocic, is exactly this amendment. This amendment doesn't change... After all, you will see and hear further debates from other colleagues in the SRS that our amendments to this law are such that we do not touch you at all in the concept of your law, but we just want to pass a law that is applicable, which is the same for all citizens. Isn't it enough that a certain group of people in Serbia have the right to special conditions for the issue of passports, should members of the families of these people also receive these diplomatic or official passports? This is not contrary to those international regulations, Mr. Jocic, which the government has written about in its reasoning. Otherwise, we would have insisted that the diplomats representing us in the embassies and consular representations be deleted, or members of their families, from this member. So that's what we'd like to do, but we didn't intervene that way because we wanted our amendment to be absolutely in line with the positive legal regulations. I call on you once again not to be an accomplice, in fact, you are, as a representative of the government here, the initiator of law making, I repeat, which is the law for elite, for several tens of thousands of citizens of Serbia, not the law for all citizens of Serbia. Accept this amendment and other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, and then you will have as much serious legislation as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6312	Thank you very much. Minister Jocic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6313	As is said, this right of family members is recognised by international conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. Believe me, I'm not an accomplice to anything, especially since time has confirmed this norm, and the Law on travel documents has changed eight times so far, so I'm going to tell you: in 1996, Ganc is new, but this provision exists in the applicable law and was passed in 1996; so in 1996 it was brought, it was changed, it was changed, it was changed in 1999, it was changed, it was changed in 2002 twice and 2003. So eight times this law has been changed and no one has touched this right. So as soon as this norm has survived eight changes, through different political stages, I think it is useful, it will certainly not be abused and it helps those who really have government jobs to do this job more easily and faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6314	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Jaroslav Hrebik.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6315	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am reporting under Article 225 and led by Mr Todorovic's presentation, which has brought more lies. So I apologize in advance for taking three minutes. Namely, the Old Paz municipality is mentioned here. It's out, like I said, more false. What's this about? Here are the charges brought against some councilors, as regards the purchase of the councilors, and I ask you why you don't first look at your yard, what radicals are doing in Stari Pazova; how did they enable the quorum at the July 3rd session, six days before the three-month deadline when conditions for the introduction of a forced administration were reached; how did the Democratic Party's board give most of the SRS, the SPS and the PSS, why don't you ask that? Security of 15 people brought that committee to the assembly session of the municipality. After that, when they had that minimum quorum, what did they do? They stopped at the door and wouldn't let the other councilmen in. So the opposition committees weren't even allowed in the assembly room. How are you not ashamed to talk like that? What's happening is preventing investment in Old Paz. When some company, domestic or foreign, wants to hire three thousand people, so don't you need to adjust to it? No, you're saying as your president of the municipality, Srjo Komazec - we're not interested in that investment. How can you not be ashamed? Do you know what three thousand jobs mean? You're stopping it? That doesn't make sense. Plus you're accusing others of protecting the legality of the work of the Old Paz City Assembly. I feel uncomfortable when you're telling such lies. Srjo Komazec was once a national MP, a circuit MP, the president of the municipality, and a few years ago he was kicked out of work because he hit a woman in the sixth month of pregnancy. That's the president of the Old Paz municipality? You talk about him and say we're no good? Look at your president of the municipality and what's going on there, as 19 acres of land has been sold to and sold to, infrastructure-free, unparcelised. Who bought it and where did that man come from? From Zemun. Who runs the Old Paz municipality? The people of Zemun.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6316	Thank you very much. Željko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to inform you of two situations that seem to have little to do with each other, but they are very connected. The first one refers to Dragas. School for Mountain National Students at the basic school "October 5th" in Krusevo, the municipality of Dragas, did not start yesterday because local Kosovo institutions banned all who wish to attend school according to the plan and programme of the Serbian Ministry of Education. The regional head of the school administration of the Serbian Ministry of Education, Predrag Stojcetovic, told Tanjagu that from last year in the municipality of Dragas, a division has started between those who want to follow the course according to the Kosovo and Serbian programmes. I want to ask our government, unfortunately, not the Minister of the Interior, because it really has nothing to do with this, but the Minister of Education and the whole government at all, what it will do to help at least those children of the mountain nation who want to study in the Serbian school programme, in Serbian language and that their diplomas are valid in Serbia the next day when they continue, if they want to continue, education. The second event refers to the Bear. Medvedja municipality President Slobodan Draskovic told Fonet yesterday that at a meeting of the Ministry of Education it was agreed that two Albanian children from Medvedje continue to attend the third grade of technical school regularly. The children will have to take several different tests and will then be recognized for the first year, and for the second year, which they attended during the last school year in Medvedja, the testimony will be given in June next year. Now I just want to tell you a few things. We have nothing against these two Albanian children, but we have against this way of solving the problem. The entire municipality, all the employees of Albanian nationalities in the state administration protested for two days, or strike, not to go to work to pressure the school director and institutions of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia to enroll these children illegally in the third year of school. Now, this is a classic pressure made to break the law, and I'm just going to tell you briefly how many reasons there are for that claim. The form on which the testimony was issued is not in use and is not prescribed by the Republic of Serbia. The first three grades of primary school ended in the territory of the Medvedja municipality, and the testimony says that all nine classes ended in Pristina, or Kosovo. I don't know how that's possible. What is most important is that these children did not take a classifying, or entrance exam for enrolment of students in four - year - old high schools. Gentlemen, I'm asking you-- can we accept that these things are solved by pressure and strike? It doesn't matter what Albanian children are, tomorrow it can happen that some other children don't take the entrance exam and are enrolled in four-year-old schools, for which the admission exam is required. I ask you not to make such a difference, even if it is two children of Albanian nationality and at least to protest and strike dozens of employees in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6318	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6319	I said at first that I had no intention of mentioning the names of those involved in this criminal business so that it would not turn out that I wanted to obstruct the work of the Assembly and that I was not engaged in the agenda. It's a good thing they found and recognized those most responsible, or they were among the most responsible, for what's going on in Old Paz. As far as Srdjan Komazec is concerned, he exclusively works in accordance with the SRS programme and policy, with the interest of the citizens of Stara Pazova and there are perfectly clear things. For this land you claim, if it is renamed building land, that 3,000 people or 30,000 people will be employed, it's not a question of hiring people, but it's a problem in something else. Those who buy this land have no intention of building anything, they intend to buy land and buy land as a farm. When the purpose is changed, when the building is allowed, they will sell such land, they will not build at all, or if they build cities for sale. I'm asking you, why wouldn't the county do that? Srdjan Komazec, as a good host, knows that it is an interest of the Municipality of Stara Paz to do this, not to do it by Marko, Janko, with the help of people who are willing to forge documents. I assume you're Mr. Hrebik Jaroslav. You have been charged with criminal charges for delivering to the municipality of the counterfeit resignations of two council members from the Serbian Force Movement Bogoljub Karic. Come on, if they're from G17, you've got blank resignations, so you passed it on, I could understand that. If they're blank resignations, where did you get the resignations from the G17 Plus? We didn't go around and talk about this or that. Srdjan Komazec did the only possible thing to get things out of the country with the help of the law. There's a simple thing: either this criminal report is unfounded because the resignations are not falsified or they're falsified, and whoever did it has to answer by law. That's the basic problem, and that's what I've been telling you, about the crime that's being legalized, which is why our country has in all a lot of damage, by lobbying and getting people ready for money to sell the interest of their citizens... They bought the land as agricultural and decided to change their purpose, to make money. The Old Paz municipality takes care of its interests. She determined the land that was along the highway, bringing electricity, water, sewers and selling it as construction. Why would she let someone else do that? That's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6320	Replica, MP of the people, Hrebik Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6321	Your Honor, I'm reporting to answer Mr. Todorovic's questions about these lies. Do you have a problem? What's this about? As far as these two disputed PSC committees are concerned, let the court determine whether it's their signature or not, I don't want to talk about it now, let the court give its opinion. There is also a criminal complaint against Srdje, not Srdjan Komazec, Mr. Todorovic, for a slander that is addressed to my account and we will see what the court has to say about it. Tell me, is it really the policy of the Serbian Radical Party to hit women who are six months pregnant? You have here a report from the commission saying that the lady who was hit was... That is, Srjo Komazec first said, "You want me to kill you? You want me to cut your throat? ". Are those the words he speaks to a colleague who's with him in his office just because a man's upset? As for the sale of that land you mention, isn't it normal for these jobs to be opened? That's what the court will determine, sir, you're not capable of establishing, nor do I intend to discuss it with you. Simply, if it's an SRS policy to treat anyone who doesn't think so, to accuse us of being criminals and forgers, find it in court and we'll meet there. It is not true at all, Srjo Komazec was familiar with the project of the mentioned company on February 1st. It's not about selling land at all, but it's about building a cargo centre, the largest in Southeast Europe, Mr. Todorovic. Your Srjo Komazec has seen this project and ask him why he did not take advantage of it, which is in the interest of the citizens of Stara Paz municipality, but said - we have no intention of working with you. Is that the answer of one of the presidents of the municipality who cares about the interests of their citizens? It's the biggest shame. And this Srdjo Komazec of yours only shows that the more violent and aggressive people are going to make progress in the Serbian Radical Foreigner. Better to be ashamed and better to settle things in your own party than to accuse us like this. In any case, the court is waiting for Srdja Komazec.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6322	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6323	She has an old saying - if she lies to a goat, she doesn't lie to a horn. There's one problem you can't explain: the big cargo center, etc., but how on agricultural land? That's the problem, how on agricultural land? How is it that you see the interest of some company to do it, it just needs to change its purpose, it just needs to change the purpose of the land, just that little thing. Why didn't you insist on being a municipality? Why should land be bought first from peasants and then asked to re-use the land in the municipality? I don't see any logic here except this one -- it's not gonna make the municipalities, it's gonna make the individuals. Not to read, but I'm going to make it possible for everyone, as many Council members as there are here, including the gentleman concerned in the Old Paz City Assembly. They calculated that this way they'd be able to bring down the legal power, so when they failed they ran faster and better and pulled those resignations. What's a fake here now? There's one thing I agree with, it's true that someone should be ashamed, but you're referring to the wrong address. Unfortunately, it seems you didn't have that feeling, nor will you. That's why, in your case, the law should work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6324	Thank you. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6325	What you're saying about the city building, not building, that has nothing to do with it. Why did we resign? It was our final protest against lawlessness, anarchy that reigned in the municipality of Stara Paz. Come, gentlemen, to see what it is in Old Paz. When we saw the obstruction of the Municipal Election Commission, where most radicals, and the Mandate-Administrative Commission, wanted to have a quorum without a session of the Assembly, to establish it simply on the Municipal Election Commission, our only step that was then possible to protect our rights and democracy and legality in the Assembly of the Municipality was to withdraw our resignations. We hope that all of this is heard by the Minister in charge, that he will send a commission to the municipality of Stara Paz to investigate all of this. And the rest of them, the police and the D.A.'s office. If everyone was doing their job, it wouldn't have come to what happened in Old Paz's community when the law was brutally compromised, when one committee was brought under strong security. What do we talk about next? What democracy? Fifteen people bring in one boardwoman who's 26 years old. Let the citizens find out what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6326	Here you go. Dragan Todorovic, I hope for the last time in the Rules of Procedure, so let's get to work. I hope your discussion doesn't cause any more replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6327	I promise in advance I won't go out on this issue again. I must tell you, I most sincerely thank you for being recognized and for coming out. A better thing couldn't have happened. I didn't want to, I could, but thank you very much, and I think now the state authorities who are in charge of this will be much simpler and easier to determine the true truth. Among other things, have them take a stenogram of your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6328	Thank you very much. Momir Markovic, here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. A bill of law, where I ask that the word "five" be replaced by "ten." What exactly is this about? The law stipulates that the passport lasts five years and that it has to be changed afterwards. Since almost all documents are issued for 10 years, I think these would avoid additional costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, the "democratic government" has been taking us to this Europe for seven years, taking us to the White Schengen list, leading us anywhere, because they haven't taken us anywhere yet, and they've brought in this one newspaper. I remind you of the Law on ID cards, how many SRS MPs insisted that this biometric chip, which they were planning to install in the ID card, is not being implanted. You know what the protest was, from the dignitaries of the SPC and beyond, was. Now here we see in passport law that it's also a biometric chip. It all started, to remind you, when the Animal Protection Associations insisted that everyone be fitted with a chip and that every moment can be controlled where the stray dog is located. I'm afraid you're singing slowly to the citizens. However, the Animal Protection Association's decision envisioned another measure - that stray dogs are castrated. As you started with this introduction of biometric chips into personal documents, to remind you that it allows you to control the document holder every moment through satellite, that you know where it is. It seems to me that you've gone deep into privacy. However, my amendment refers to the fact that the citizens of Serbia, which you have otherwise led to a beggar stick, 80% of the population, do not have to be exposed every five years to one-off costs, because the costs, from tax to another, have increased dramatically and are growing more every day, than the importance of the document is 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6330	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz called, and the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzia, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6331	I am sorry that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, members of the Defence and Security Committee, did not inform Mr Markovic. It's simply explained there, and they took it to the knowledge, that it's not about any biometric chip, but it's about biometric data, which is completely different things, and besides, there's still more data that are found and being loaded. Therefore, please do not confuse the citizens of Serbia, to make some unnecessary panic about it. So there's no biometric chip in that document, that's absolutely not true. Therefore, you speak terms that are correct. So, part of the data is biometric data, but it's not a biometric chip. It is also explained, and therefore this amendment should be rejected, that technology is progressing anyway, in five years we will have to change again, and that is the standard of all countries in the environment, that it is at five years. So we must also respect those international standards. It's nothing to argue with. Whatever it says, it would have to change for five years anyway. So there's no biometric chip.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6332	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6333	Discussing this amendment and in talks with Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party has not received any sufficient reason, so to speak, that this amendment is not accepted. We therefore address Mr. Minister to accept this amendment, and unless the Government accepts it, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting because we believe that extracting passports and expenses and the engagement of the administration is a fact. We don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6334	Thank you to Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. The word is Mr. Jocic, then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6335	Let me get this straight. There's biometric data, and that's the data that's being put on the chip, it's a print, a photo and a signature. As for the speaker who said we were putting the chip in the travel document, I must say that Božidar Delic from the SRS predicted his amendment to include the chip in the passport. However, it is not the subject of this amendment and I accept this amendment instead of five years to last for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6337	It is true, Mr. Minister, that the MP, Mr. Bozidar Delic, General Bozidar Delic, said that the document should be fitted with a chip, but a chip that is read through a special device and from a small distance. What you're installing, what you tried in your previous mandate to install into your ID cards, that's another kind of chip. By the way, should I answer Mr. Shormaz - and where can biometric data be recorded if they are not recorded in the chip? He said to me: no chips, biometric data is recorded. He can't do it without the chip. It's two kinds of chips: a chip that can read a cop with that machine and make him see who he is, what he's from, where he's from, and what he's doing, and another kind of chip, where you'll be able to control the citizens wherever they are, and then he'll be "happy new 84.""you said Mr. Orwell.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6338	On the occasion of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6339	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you are a man of old, of the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I'm amazed you say I'm a messenger. You know very well that I am a People's MP. It's not right. I answered, there is time for my colleague Markovic's amendment, although Mrs Kolundzija said the Democratic Party's position that they agree with this view, which is that the importance of the passport should be 10 years and we convinced, here, on the spot, the minister to accept it. That's exactly what this was about. You see, Mr. Shormaz, let me tell you, because you're the vice president of the Defence and Security Committee, whether or not it's now called a chip, it's, it's obvious, it's biometric data. How far the Ministry is still wandering about what these data will look like, or what their protection will be, neither can Mr. Todorovic tell you at the moment. That's the gentleman sitting next to Mr. Secretary who explained it to us in detail. We've entered an expert controversy... Don't play me all the time, Mr. Grouchy, I'm very focused. (President: I will calm them down, Miss Jovanovic. How to calm down, when you see that he will not listen to a fellow I address, he is restless, and he will not learn. I don't know how you're gonna help him when he can't help himself. So it's that the data that needs to be indisposed to manipulation by those who deal with various subversive activities, by those who have bad intentions towards one country, one nation, the individual who has a travel document. Don't, Mr. Minister, caricate now, in the context of the amendment of the distinguished colleague General Delic, what Mr. Markovic was talking about. If he's the one who said the chip, it doesn't matter now, loading biometric data. You know that there are special devices that do this, that can be available to anyone, not only the competent state authorities, but also the owner of a hotel. We took you very seriously, referring to the conclusions of the Budapest Declaration, which was held in Budapest two years ago, asked and asked for concrete answers from you. Where the data will be loaded, will it be like American passports, so it'll be those metal fibers in the cover? How will citizens protect themselves, that is what General Delic is asking as a question, or colleague Markovic, how will he know that someone will not abuse that data? When it is not precise in the law, and it is not in this which we are discussing, which is all about citizens, we think that the public is rightly upset because of this and that that is why these polemics and the media have been led, and by the people dealing with the areas of security, and in religious organisations, or the SPC, because it is the integrity of the individual, or ours, at this point, not knowing what all these data that the machine-reading devices will contain (if you want it so precisely, but it is not the neck but the colleague Markovic just said that it is said in the jargon) are able to read. We're not white mice, or people who need to be part of an experiment for something that requires of you, and sets standards, whether it's a country or an organization. Every country in the world has the right to determine what data it is (and to discuss it in the security sector) which will be available abroad, which citizens must now give when seeking passports; these data will stand and as such they are at the disposal of any authority, and in the police, at customs, at the hotel and anywhere they are legalized by anyone abroad. I guess it's normal and it's our right to ask how we're going to be treated in that case, and not to talk any further about all these other shortcomings that we're going to talk about until the end. The question is very clear. And you know for yourself that there are several levels of data protection and that they can be entered in different ways, so that certain devices can detect them. Our question was in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6340	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6341	What's a chip? The chip is just a place to log in, personalize the data. The chip can be read directly when placed in a single machine, in a data-reader. General Delic's amendment envisions another type of chip, predicting something we didn't predict, which is a smart ID. This means the most modern passport that has a device inside, which has its own power supply, which has an antenna in its cover and simply emits data remotely and is read to special readers. It's a very expensive document in technical and technological terms. We didn't predict him. We only predicted a chip as a memory, which will be read directly; direct installation into a particular machine can read these three data, which is photo, signature and print.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6342	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the People's MP, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6343	You have just admitted, Mr. Jocic, that you are unprepared for new travel documents, because for this amendment by General Delic, who is a man of security, a famous Serbian general, you are now telling me - we do not have it and we cannot do it. You won't? No, you won't, then there's a colleague Markovic and the whole public who's worried about it, because these are exactly the protection measures that General Delic has proposed to you. If you don't, and you don't have to, if the money gets kidnapped and robbed on the other side... It's expensive. Mr. Minister, it was expensive when you took our jeep and when Dusan Mihajlovic publicly promised our president a million-mark reward if he discovered three murders, what he did. It was expensive when you took the equipment, or Dusan Mihajlović (and I asked you that, you did not answer me until today), which failed, of several hundred thousand euros, motorolas, without a tender. Now you're saying -- it's expensive, and you want to install data and make sure that the citizens are on their own when they cross the state line. You can't do that. Or take care of the safety of citizens and respect what standards and conclusions are. These people, from so many countries, would not meet and bring that Budapest Declaration and think about how to protect their citizens. Then leave this standard and such passport as it was, change only the coat of arms and the name, write the Republic of Serbia, and don't let every day in the media you and your associates distract us with it. You know what your colleague's answer was, I think his last name was Maravić, the other morning on state television? He was visiting this Tianic morning program, this July's Minister of Information. He asks him what runs the morning program -- why not a 10-year passport, but five, and now you've agreed to 10, and he says, because of this data being entered and because of the fact that after five years of technological development and progress, we're going to perfect the possibility of them being protected. And now you say you won't, because you won't respect what General Delic suggested. If you weren't prepared as a state... We would do so if we were in power and if Mr. Todorovic were in your position, and God, he would be Minister of Interior, we would have such passports to protect the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6344	National MP Dragan Todorovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6345	I am reporting for a statement by the minister that the introduction of such passports is expensive and that they have resorted to this kind of data recording that is much cheaper. I'm afraid because of the concerns of the minister for the price citizens have to pay, they don't introduce these earrings that attach to the ear and then there's no problem. Please, if you resort to this method, just hit it with those that are for Euro-Atlantic integration. We'd be with these old passports, we don't need them, it's cheapest for you, and these stamps on your ear, so let them travel around the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6346	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6347	By the way, these earrings are yellow, too. I'd like to ask Mrs. Kolundji to come out a little more often for this pay phone, at least when the amendments are on the agenda. You see, when it's a little bit prepped up, the minister jumps hard and immediately accepts the amendments that the government has rejected earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said in the principle debate about this bill on travel documents. Serbian Radical Party MPs have pointed out their objections to his shortcomings. This law is just seemingly technical, it has its essence. I don't want to go back to that much, it's already quite said about it. Those remarks that were made in the principle debate have been translated into amendments and they are here today before you. Of the twenty amendments, as submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, we have just received the first acceptance of an amendment to Mrs Kolundzhija's intervention. The government continues to persistently and stubbornly reject all amendments to the SRS, although the amendments are well-intentioned and it is only our desire to fix the proposed laws to be as good as possible when they enter legal traffic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 relating to the period of validity of the diplomatic and official passport. I'll quote that member so the public knows what this is about: "The diplomatic passport and the official passport are issued with a five-year period of validity. By the end of the conditions laid down in Articles 9 to 11 of this Act, the right to a diplomatic and official passport shall cease and shall expire before the deadline laid down in Article 1 of this Article expires. "The amendment I filed in front of the SRS would change this article so that it reads: "The diplomatic passport and the official passport shall be issued with a period of validity while the conditions laid down in Articles 9 to 11 of this Act exist. "In order for the public to know what this is about, I will briefly refer to the members of the 9 - 11 proposed law, where diplomatic and official passports are currently being spoken of. Article 9(1) states: "The diplomatic passport and the official passport are travel documents issued for the effective performance of state affairs abroad provided for by international law. "The last position of Article 9 states: "The issue of a diplomatic passport and official passport is closer to the regulation of the Government. "Article 10 speaks only of the diplomatic passport and says: "The diplomatic passport is issued to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, in accordance with international law abroad, have the status of diplomatic agent, consular official, officials of international organisations, diplomatic couriers, as well as top state officials, in accordance with Article 9 of this law. "I have already said, that attitude 5 is no closer than those conditions mentioned here, but only says that the government is closer to regulating conditions for the issue of diplomatic and official passports. It's an interesting response from the government that rejected this amendment. In response, the government said: "The government does not accept this amendment, because for all travel documents the law must set the deadline for their validity, including for diplomatic and official passports, in order to prevent possible abuses, which is more so for holders of diplomatic and official passports, according to international law, they also associate special benefits and relief when travelling abroad. "Mr. Minister, because of all this, the amendment has been submitted, due to possible abuses, which are very evident in the previous period. So there were. That's why we intervene this way. In our opinion, it is much better and smarter to say that these documents apply as long as there is a function by which someone has received this correction, not to leave him for a certain number of years, so that he can come into a situation where he can abuse, by his own will or by the consent of someone who is in a position to enable him to do so. I've already said that this law seems to just seem to be of a technical nature. But he has his essence, and that's what we're talking about here. The bottom line is that a number of people in the country have extraordinary privileges, to create one political elite that will enjoy all the privileges of this country and this society. When the minister has already mentioned Baja's garden, let me briefly refer to what is currently happening and what is related to the MUP. In fact, there is a competition in the Ministry for the employment of young people in the service. I think there are 90 guys and 30 girls listed in Serbia. I want to direct you, it seems to me that there is an attempt to abuse, to try the authorities to verify how accurate all the information I have is, how the selection is done, or how the candidates are selected. Since Serbia is in such a situation, we all know, a very difficult job, there is no job, then children simply run for these places in the police to get jobs, and there are a large number of candidates registered for these 120 seats. According to the information I have, the procedure is such that health checks are carried out first in the places of residence, i.e. in these district centres, if I understand correctly, which means that Užica has been given a health check, and then, after that, during some selection, children are invited to school in Kamenica, of course, with all the health checks to be carried out in Belgrade. According to information I have, a dozen young men and girls competed from Bajina Basta, but one who had the best results on the team reviews in Užica was not invited to Kamenica, i.e. to further review and further procedure. I'm interested in who decides and who does that selection at that level or who does the selection until the end and why these things happen. I note that this is what I've brought up from a lot of reliable sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6348	I thank the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for that amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 24. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Nemanja Sarovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6349	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a law on travel documents that prescribes a form, appearance and content of a form of travel documents. This amendment asked for a new stance 5, which reads: "The passport form is a blue colour of 125 x 85 millimetres, the title of the Republic of Serbia, the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, and under the coat of arms is recorded - passport, in Serbian, English and French. The proposed positions 5 and 6 become positions 6 and 7." Of course, as in many other cases, the Government and the Committee on Defence and Security, or representatives of the ruling coalition in parliament, rejected this amendment to the SRS, without giving any valid reason for such a procedure. I'll read you the argument given by the government. It says: "The government does not accept this amendment, given that the signing of the travel documents form is subject to sublegal regulation and to that end in Article 24(2). The bill lays down the power of the interior minister to adopt rules on the form of travel documents. “ So this shows the complete legal illiteracy of those who wrote this answer. They actually say -- we don't accept such a legal solution because we want it to be settled by sublegal acts, or they say -- we don't accept it because the bill so provides. If such a solution had not been provided for by this bill, there would be no amendment and I guess that's quite clear. So, as a reason for refusing this amendment, there must be some meaningful reason. You could have said - we want to retain the right for each minister to change colour, look, size; or - we think that the name and borders of the state will often be changed, so we want to change the appearance of passports as easily as possible by means of sublegal acts. Of course, there is no reason why this amendment cannot be accepted. It would have been good if at least one of the representatives of the ruling coalition or government had said whether there was anything controversial about these data proposed by the amendment as mandatory and which we wanted to regulate by law and whether there is any reason why it is not possible to accept the amendment. It is undeniable that the passport of a state, and especially of a serious state, such as Serbia, as long as the DOS is headed, will not change too often. So, only a few of the most basic data are provided here by law as mandatory and it is clear that the name of the Republic of Serbia, the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, in three languages, in Serbian as official and English and French, is common to all countries in the world, that these are rules that have not changed for many years and that are very likely not to change for 10 or 50 years, therefore, incomparably longer than this government will exist. These data are also interesting. You can see some style errors here, as in this Article 6, where you say again that the travel document form is also the date of issue. It's completely unnecessary to say that every time you enter that, and that, and that, and that, and that and that, five times. It's just a stylish note. Furthermore, item 3 (1) - the name and name of the person to whom the passport is issued. It was common, such a principle in all documents, in the ID card, and so far it has been in the passport, to enter the name of one parent. I don't know why you threw that information out this time, especially when we know that in that biometric chip that you wanted to install into your ID cards (in good luck, under the pressure of the public you suspended that part of the law) there were so many extensive data that practically applied to your whole life; only that you didn't predict the number of shoes of the holder of that travel document, and here you don't even predict the parents' name to be entered into the passport in the future. Paragraph 3. 5) says - citizenship is entered. If citizenship is one of the conditions for issuing a travel document, i.e. a passport, it is absolutely unnecessary to sign that whoever has the passport of the Republic of Serbia is a Serbian citizen. If you had said, eventually, that would have made sense; therefore, if someone had the citizenship of another country, that you would have written that it is known, especially when it comes to ministers and some countries that have not proved very friendly to the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people in general. You continue with this law to deceive, practically, Serbian citizens and continue these stories about the white Schengen lists, I expect this passport will allow us to do so. It is one of the arguments used by representatives of the ruling coalition -- how, I guess, when we have these passports, whose minister will prescribe color and size, we will get to Europe much faster. The data that is more than interesting and which speaks much more about reality in Serbia today, after seven years of DOS authorities, is that only 11% of Serbian citizens own a passport. If we looked at any more of these citizens who have the opportunity to travel and train their children abroad, then that number would be reduced to maybe less than one. So, no citizens of the Republic of Serbia will get any of these promises either, and you promise from 2000 that we will be on the White Schengen list and that we will be able to travel. Many concessions are required from us and we are asked to give up Kosovo and Metohija, and in turn, for who knows which time, you offer a colorful lie to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you offer a promise that they will be able to travel, although it is clear that far from a white Schengen list for citizens of the Republic of Serbia there is nothing. I'd just like to take some more time, since I answered a few days ago, actually three days ago, and I asked Minister Jocic a letter question. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer back then, and I'll read the provisions of article 200. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says, quotes: "The government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must respond orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply to the MP in writing within eight days of the date on which the question was delivered. "Those who followed the transfer saw that, although it was his obligation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, not only did he not answer the asked question (although it was not too difficult in my opinion), he did not respect me or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs, so much as to say that he was unable to respond immediately, but would do so within this additional eight days. I need to remind you of that question that's been asked. As you know, the Serbian Radical Party has begun collecting signatures supporting a petition for the direct transfer of the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj to The Hague tribunal. The date of the trial was set for November 7th and the UN tribunal is doing everything it can to completely isolate Dr Vojislav Seselj from the public. They have kept the president of the SRS in complete isolation for about nine months, and it is clear, because the previous three status conferences could not even be monitored online, that this is the path the UN tribunal will go in an attempt to deal with the president of the Serbian Radical Party. It is clear to all that this trial is political and that Dr Vojislav Seselj is not tried there, but the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens, because he is not charged with any crime, but is accused of statements of both politics and ideology of the SRS, which is supported by more than a third of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, our activists who collect signatures across the Republic of Serbia began to experience discomfort from members of the MUP from day one. My question was whether the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dragan Jocic were behind the pressures. I'll read article 56 one more time. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "Everyone has the right to petitions and other proposals together with themselves to state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority, the authorities of the Autonomous province and the bodies of the unit of local self-government and to get an answer from them when to ask for it. Because of the petitions and the proposal, no one can suffer the adverse consequences." Despite this, members of the police persistently legitimize the SRS activists, they are seeking some kind of permission to collect a petition, although this constitution guarantees the right. Therefore, no authorisation is necessary, nor is it possible to deny, by any other act, the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to citizens. The very fact that Minister Jocic did not answer the asked question speaks enough about the fact that, in fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia is behind these pressures and that, in fact, members of the police who are making the pressure, who are legitimising our activists, are working on direct orders from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP. Unfortunately, the situation worsened afterwards. A city councilman, Slobodan Vukovic, was attacked the day before yesterday. He was attacked by three faces who were twice his age. So he's seriously at risk of health. He's been in the hospital for more than a day, I mean on Paster Street, I don't know exactly what his name is. His eyesight is seriously compromised, because the spray with which it is sprayed is extremely strong. Unfortunately, so far, the police have not discovered the perpetrators of this crime. You remember yourself, when members of other parties experienced incomparably less uncompromising, which were not dangerous for their health, let alone for life, which we as SRS have always condemned and in such cases we were never involved, the whole public reacted, reacted to the Ministry, reacted to the media, reacted to public service. When Serbian Radical Party activists are attacked, no one reacts. For the third time, aggression, vandalism, however, broke large glass at the SRS Municipal Committee's premises in Zemun. How many times they've broken their flags, you don't even know it anymore. Not once have the police responded, not once have the perpetrators been discovered. Is this what Minister Jocic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to tell us that the hunting season for members and members of the SRS is open? This morning, police sent two women away (it's a woman of fifty-something years and another approximate age) from a checkpoint at Bayloni's market and they're not allowed to collect signatures. So it's about time you came to your senses. You must bear in mind that a huge number of citizens of Belgrade and all of Serbia support this action, that some citizens who are neither members nor sympathisers of the SRS have also given us the signatures, but are aware that Dr Vojislav Seselj there is fighting for the rights that are universally guaranteed to every citizen of the world. I warn the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we have instructed all our activists that at least now they're writing down the numbers of these officers who are causing our activists, who are breaking the law, and then we'll try, if we can't protect our rights like this, then we'll use other visions, we'll write criminal reports, we'll address the courts, we'll make, if we should, and we protest, we'll block the streets of Prince Milos, the government, the MUP, we'll start from one state institution to another. It's simply inadmissible. It is obvious that you think that you are allowed everything, that everything is possible when your interests are at stake, that you have every right, that you can set the Assembly on fire, that you can use automatic rifles to break into state institutions, and when citizens in a peaceful manner show solidarity with the president of the SRS – who has been waiting five years for his trial in The Hague tribunal or, as you would say, waiting to prove innocence, but it is obvious that some people can't even get that chance – then it is adequate for you and it is appropriate for these people to suffer all possible types of attacks, both women and men, to deal with stones, sprays or I don't know what with them. (President: Mr. Sarovic, time. I'm done. Keep in mind that I'm using 15 minutes that belong to me by amendment, three minutes by the Rules of Procedure, plus the time to quote, so I still have about two minutes. (President: You don't, but when you talk about Voja Seselj, you do. ) So, I would ask Mr Dragan Jocic to come out for this pay phone and make it decidently and clearly clear whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is behind the persecution of SRS activists and whether this is your way of reducing the number of signatures collected by SRS activists, so as to prevent and disable our legitimate request, the request of the SRS and all of us who are legitimate representatives of the third citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that on one of the TV programmes - RTS are directly transferred to the trials of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6350	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, then Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6351	Mr. Minister, here you have violated the Constitution of a member of the law, as Mr. Sarovic spoke to you, because it is in article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia strictly prescribed a way of using coat of arms, flags and anthem. The law has determined what Serbia's state coat of arms looks like, but the Constitution is in Article 7 in the last position absolutely explicit and says, "The appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthems are regulated by law." I don't know if you can do what you wrote - the form is governed by the minister's regulation. There are these lawyers, experts from the SRS, such as colleagues Sarovic, Mrs Radeta, Jojic, Srete Perić, Martinovic, many of them are indeed a whole expert team of Serbian radicals. You can't possibly, Mr. Jocic, use the coat of arms of the Serbian state on the road without introducing it into the law. You're breaking the constitution, and you're a legalist, I assume you're the vice president of this Kostunica party, the DSS. We can't know if you'll ever follow the law, Mr. Minister. You had a nice drawing of your colleague Sarovic's passport. You know very well, you just didn't want to, I don't know why, to accept the amendment of Serbian radicals, but I call on all MPs to vote on the amendment of their fellow Members, because on that day, you will vote on a travel document, or passport, when you go home, you will be able to tell your family members and friends what a new passport will look like. You know very well, Mr. Minister, that's also what your Maravic was saying the other morning at Tianic's in the morning program, that this is what a passport will look like, whether he said right in a millimeter, but he said there would be blue paint, that there would be a coat of arms. How are you going to put your coat of arms on a travel document in a form that you're going to prescribe when you didn't put it into law? He can't. Now, if you want to respect the Constitution, you must accept the amendment of counterpart Sarovic. If you don't accept it, then you don't have the right to place a national mark, which is prescribed by the Constitution exactly as it is puts it, on a travel document. Just one more thing, Mr. Minister, you could have, if you had a good will, but it's not too late yet, now there's going to be another hour's break, to meet again the Defence and Security Committee to correct it and not to violate the Constitution, to fully accept this amendment by fellow Members of Sarovic, to return and declare that it is okay. This legal and technical editorial can also be done to accept that our proposal to have a map of the Republic of Serbia on each page, i.e. when opening the passport covers. So you will reject any Shiptar separatist who would use the travel document of the Republic of Serbia and apply to the place of residence, which Dr Goran Cvetanović spoke of the other day, in Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedji and where they were otherwise inhabited, and applying for travel documents... It will simply be demoralized by the very fact that there is a map of the Serbian state, which will eventually protect, according to the Constitution, and preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty, with Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. It's something they won't want to hold in their hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6352	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Dragan Jocic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6353	The law on the use of the flag, the anthem and the coat of arms prescribes where the coat of arms is put, first of all. As for the answer to that question whether someone is behind the attack or not, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6354	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since there are no more applications for a discussion on Article 24, we are moving on to Article 25. But before that, I'm announcing a break. We'll continue at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6355	On Article 25, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6356	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Todorovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the SRS who have submitted amendments to the proposal for this law think that two members are particularly important, these are Article 24 and Article 25. As for Article 25, you know what the bill says, all it says is that there is room for these machine-readable data, but that protection and content will be determined by the minister. With this amendment, we wanted to specify these data contained in that machine-readable part of our passport or, in other words, the biometric data. We asked that your data be consistent with the standard. It's the standard of that civil aviation organization that's been accepted everywhere in the world. We asked for our passport or that machine-readable part of it to be read by direct contact. We received confirmation from Mr. Todorovic, because the withdrawal through the reader is also direct contact, and we said or set some condition, not entering into which type and from which manufacturer should be this radio frequency chip, to be readable if not by direct contact then at a maximum of 10 cm away. That's where we said it was normally done with the American passport, and we think it's the passport that has the highest level of protection, to be embedded in the cover and that web of metal fibers. This ensures the effect of Faraday's cage, and on the other hand, the inability to read these data, if anyone wants to, from a distance, say, 50 cm to 2 m. We have provided that the other protection measures are prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior, according to how this technology progresses in the future. And we predicted, as a last resort, that every citizen has the right to learn or obtain from the competent authority the contents of this data that are read on the machine reader. As you can see, the government has not accepted this amendment. The government continues, as with this previous member of the law, to push on its own. We said the most important thing in this law is what our passport looks like, and that amendment has been rejected and the government's explanation is that the passport form is the subject of sublegal regulation. So the most important item in this law is the subject of sublegal regulation. Someone here will, on our behalf, transfer here, to say, our jurisdiction to the minister. Once again, gentlemen, I warn you that when you come home and you are asked what legislation or amendments we have passed or rejected (although the law will be passed on to the day of the vote) and when you say that we have worked today and adopted amendments to the travel document, or passport, so yours will also be in the house or your neighbors asking what our future passport will look like, you can only fold your shoulders and say yes, we have passed the law, but the minister will prescribe what our passport should look like. It is particularly symptomatic of this in the previous article, when the government refused our amendment: "The passport form is blue, size 125 h 85 mm, the title of the Republic of Serbia, the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, and under the coat of arms are entered - passport, in Serbian, English and French. "If the government refused the look of the first page of the passport we offered, what does our government foresee to be on the first side of the passport? That must be known. That's what someone has to tell us today. If it won't be the coat of arms of Serbia, what other coat of arms will be on our passport? With that passport, we intend to travel abroad. I intend to hold that passport in my hand and be proud of him and that coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr Todorovic's explanation, since the minister is not here, if, without any explanation, our amendment is rejected that the passport includes the name of the Republic of Serbia and the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, that we are now told what will be on our passport. Is the minister not thinking of putting an animal on a passport? Or maybe some sign, like it has on those American bills, that belongs to some order, that I'm not calling now, because maybe someone in this room can feel called if I say "magranites." I really insist and demand – that I could give an explanation to the people who called me on the phone last night to draw my attention that this member is the 24th most important member, together with a member of the 25th law, and we are not deciding on either one, but we have passed on our powers to do so by the minister – may Mr. Minister, or his current representative here, explain what it will be instead of the name Republic of Serbia, instead of the coat of arms and instead of what we have proposed. What color would that be if it wasn't blue? I know you hate that red color, but you probably hate this blue one too because you think it's radical, and I think it's still our common, international one. I expect an explanation on these two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6357	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6358	Three things I want to potentiate. First petition SRS, follow-up, part two. Mr Nemanja Sarovic spoke in the afternoon section, asked Minister Jocic, or asked for two days ago, so today again, that the minister through his services should investigate who it is that is trying to prevent SRS activists from collecting signatures for a petition that we are going to ask that the trial from The Hague be transferred to our president on Serbian Radio Television, which is what you today call the Public Service of European Serbia. Since the public service is funded by Serbian citizens, of course we expect that July's Minister Aleksandar Tijanic will accept our request, which will be backed by at least a million signatures. Of course, and former military intelligence. Madam Radeta, please. He's not a minister, he's the director of television, to treat us with respect. ) Mr. Albianic, I was just looking forward to today when you came in, honestly told you, it wasn't long ago, I said, now a reasonable man runs this session, and now you convince me that Aleksandar Tijanic is not a Yugoslav minister. Is there anyone in the state of Serbia who doesn't know that, except you? You'd better run around the archives a little more, then come back. So our request, regardless of your aspirations and the obvious involvement of the government of the Republic of Serbia in preventing us from collecting these signatures, will be supported by over a million signatures. You won't stop us from it, no matter what you try to do. Now a public warning to that July Minister Tijanic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, a press release: if this initiative is not accepted, then we will invite all those citizens to stop paying the subscription to the public service, and see if then July Minister Aleksandar Tijanic will sue over a million people who do not pay him a subscription. Of course, this is the work of the Serbian Radical Party and we will, as we have done so far, do it impeccably, but something else was interesting to me here. The minister came out after Mr. Nemanje Sarovic to explain what he knows about the case, or what his services have learned. So the question was about the attack on the SRS municipal board in Zemun, the attack on activist Slobodan Vukovic, the attack on two women who collected signatures, which took place today. The minister came out and already left the pay phone like this, and he just said no one is behind the attack. Now I ask the minister how he knows it at all times in this way to answer the question; and if he knows that no one is behind that attack, then either he is standing or he knows who the perpetrator is and he won't say it, and we just insisted that he tell us who did it, and of course we expect to know why, or who is the inspiration of that part. Now I repeat the question to the minister, since it's obvious that he knows who did it, if he knows no one's standing, then it's someone who's thought to act crazy, to tell us who that someone is. Secondly, I want to go back to Article 19 very briefly. A bill of law and only one sentence to explain, since the rest is a little blurry. The amendment, which was submitted by Momir Markovic on behalf of our parliamentary group, was that for the passport to be issued, it would be ten years, and the government had proposed five years. On behalf of the Democratic Party, Mrs Nada Kolundzija accepted the amendment and said the Democratic Party would vote in favour of the amendment unless the minister accepted it. After that, the minister accepted the amendment. It's all very commendable, but for what? Because the point is that we asked that this deadline move from five to ten years because we wanted Serbian citizens taking travel documents to cut costs and not have to be exposed every five years to unnecessary costs, unnecessary administration. This is the relationship of the Serbian Radical Party to Serbian citizens, therefore, wherever we can help, even with such intervention, and even if it is only a fee for issuing a travel document, which will not be very small because a form will be paid, etc. I assume the same was the motive of Mrs. Kolundjia and Mr. Minister. If so, it is a good sign that those in power too began to think about the citizens of Serbia, but, behold, I had a need to draw attention to the fact that it was the idea of the Serbian Radical Party. Just one more sentence concerning Mr. Bozidar Delic's amendment, which he just spoke of and explained with enough arguments so I don't have a need, and I have nothing more to say, but I still have to go back to the minister's comment. Something the minister today, which isn't characteristic of him, seems nervous, so something's running out with some statements, I'd say reckless. When Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, spoke about members of the 24th and 25th and our amendments to those members, then Mr Jocic said that he was essentially fine with it, it was a conversation from the bench, that our amendment was quite good, but that he could not accept it because the state had no money for these expenditures. I note that here it is in the bill that the travel document form will be paid by a citizen who takes that form. When Miss Natasha said it again - so, Minister, you can't, you don't have money, if you don't want to go law-making, the minister said angryly - no, but we won't. Now I ask the minister if he really won't or the government can't; his third answer was to cost a lot. The government's official response is that "the amendment of Bozidar Delic is not accepted since he deals with issues that are not legal matter. Namely, the amendment is subject to the regulation of the format of travel documents and its technical characteristics, which is contained in the rules to be adopted on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 24(2). It's a bill of law. "I have made these remarks to draw attention first of all to the representatives of the Government who come here to be mindful and to be constantly present in their minds that we MPs of the SRS are following every word, every spoken letter, and I am convinced that the work of this Parliament is being followed by our citizens who are watching us, and that we will not allow any minister to play this way, to insult the intelligence of the MPs, and then of course the intelligence of the Serbian citizens. So, Mr. Jocic, if he comes, I guess he's in the government session because today is Thursday, he'll have to say why he didn't accept the amendment to Bozidar Delic. Is it because it can't, is it because it won't, is it because it costs a lot or because of what the government wrote? Who instead participated in the government's development of this response by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to our amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6359	Are any of the other parliamentary groups reporting for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6360	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the matter of travel documents belongs to that area of law that lawyers call public law. Public law contains imperative, or congenital norms. These standards must be completely clear, precise, unambiguous and must not leave room for any subjective interpretations. However, the bill on travel documents contains a whole series of such provisions that allow for arbitrary interpretation and, in the extreme line, it can cause harmful consequences in practice, especially when it comes to human rights and freedoms. National MP Slavko Jerkovic submitted an amendment to Article 30. The bill on travel documents and proposed that Article 30, paragraph 1, after the wording of "this law" put an end to the rest of the text and that the remaining part of the text be deleted. Namely, the remaining part of the text contains a formula that is quite general: "as well as other public documents proving the data from the requirements. "It is that, with a request for a travel document, one who submits the application puts a ID card or other ID card or other document which can determine identity, citizenship assurance, and then puts "and other public documents proving the data of the request" in his proposal. Since it is an imperative law, which contains imperial norms, there is simply no room for such a formulation in such a bill. If the government was to say that there are other public documents that can prove identity, then it had to indicate exactly what kind of public documents are involved, rather than leave the possibility of subjective and arbitrary interpretation. What is particularly scandalous when it comes to the government's reasoning on why this amendment refuses is the first sentence in the explanation: "The government does not accept the amendment since in some cases it will not be possible to prove the credibility of all the data contained in the request for a travel document only on the basis of the credentials of citizenship and identity cards. "I can draw only two conclusions from this formulation, with none of these two conclusions being favourable to the government, or to the ruling majority. The first conclusion is that the Personal Card Act is not valid, i.e. it does not foresee the introduction into the personal map of all the data necessary to establish the identity of a person on the basis of the identity card. The second conclusion is that the MUP, i.e. MPs dealing with the issue of ID cards, do so unwittingly, irresponsiblely, break the law and issue identity cards with invalid data, and that therefore, on the basis of such a identity card, the identity of a person cannot be established in a credible manner. In any case, if this is the second one, then Minister Jocic is actually disabling the ministry he is headed for. To remind you, the identity card is a document, i.e. a public document containing all relevant data necessary to determine the identity of one person, containing the name, last name, name, name of one of the parents, date and place of birth, residence, unique home number of citizens. What else is it that citizens should give when they come to apply for a travel document, other than what is already in the ID? It will be, however, that the Ministry of the Interior is aware that in the Republic of Serbia, the identity cards that have been falsified are issued, that there are officials who are unconsciously doing their job and that they issue ID cards with incorrect data, because there can be nothing else. Furthermore, MP Slavko Jerkovic suggested that the regulation be corrected in accordance with Article 30(2). The proposal for a law, in that sense, also applies to the request for a photo which fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 27(7) of this Act. It has been a practice so far in our regulations, that one who applies for a travel document must apply with that request and photograph, of course the prescribed size, or prescribed standards. From the formulation as stated in the proposal for a law, one who submits an application may but does not have to attach a photograph, which can create in practice major problems, i.e. to open the door to major abuses. Here, I am taking the opportunity, since MP Slavko Jerkovic is not here, to refer to Interior Minister Dragan Jocic a parliamentary question that Slavko Jerkovic, in his time, has asked in the parliament of the SCG state union. The parliamentary question is - what number of Albanians received travel documents in our diplomatic and consular representations abroad, while Serbia-Montenegro's foreign minister, i.e. SRJ, was Goran Svilanovic? According to information available to the SRS, that number is not small at all. Some of these Albanians include those who financially assisted terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, and even those who actively participated in armed conflicts with military and police forces in Kosovo and Metohija, especially during 1998 and 1999. This parliamentary question has to do with the very proposal for a travel document. When we discussed the draft law in principle, we asked why there are no provisions in the bill that would make it impossible for the state of Serbia to get the one who fought against the same state with weapons. On the other hand, when we talked about the Law on Citizenship, we said that you are allowing citizenship to be obtained and someone who has a registered residence in the Republic of Serbia, who is a Montenegrin citizen and who has been actively working to separate Montenegro from Serbia and who has absolutely nothing to do with Serbia, but only by obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia wants to achieve some of its personal interests, which are normally in collegiate with the law. So on the one hand, you allow travel documents to be obtained and those who openly declare themselves enemies of the state of Serbia do not foresee any restrictive provisions in that direction, but on the other hand, when it comes to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia as one of the conditions for obtaining a travel document, you are asking members of the Serb people living outside Serbia to be full-time and be able to do business. In doing so, you simply bypass Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people, has no restrictions on years, business skills, or any other personal property. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I think the reason why the government refuses this amendment is scandalous and that the amendment in its nature is such that it simply has to be adopted. If, of course, the ruling majority in this assembly and the government do not adopt this amendment, then they will simply give ground to various speculations that there are invalid ID cards in the Republic of Serbia and that behind such ID cards are MP officials. I can't draw any other conclusion from the government's argument that there are cases where an identity card can't always determine the authenticity of one person's identity. This means that there are identity cards that are invalid, which contain incorrect and falsified data. I call on the interior minister to address this serious problem, to consider our position to enter into the legislation on travel documents a provision that will prevent the enemies of the Serbian state from getting its travel document, and as far as the amendment of MP Slavko Jerkovic himself is concerned, I call on the government and the ruling majority to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6361	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 1. Rules of Procedure - rights and obligations, to give you and the citizens of Serbia one piece of information. Today in Belgrade, who knows which time the so-called prosecutor came. The court in The Hague, Carla del Ponte, is issuing orders to Tadic and Kostunica, and to all of you, how to proceed in search of Serbian heroes. What that so-called. The prosecutor is well-known to the entire patriotic Serbia; people who oppose such satanization of the Serbian people cannot see it, especially because of the fact that Slobodan Milosevic was killed there and that for five years, without the start of the trial, and his procedural and human rights are being violated, there is the president of our party, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. I am informing you, as well as the public, above all Kragujevac, that the SRS will today, starting at 19:00, at the House of Trade Unions Hall in Kragujevac, hold the promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "The Hague Instrumentization of False Witnesses". Today, colleagues, members of our president's defence team and other party officials, the Kragujevac public, as well as anyone who can track it through regional and local media, will talk about your service to Carla del Ponte and other enemies of the Serbian people being executed for Serbia. We will also point to what we are absolutely certain, that soon the day when the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, in the parades, will break up The Hague tribunal, which sees the end, will return to its country of Serbia, will successfully lead its party and the Serbian people, and you will remain in the history of our people recorded as the people who have done the most dirty work for the expense of these monsters, Carla del Ponte and others, who are aimed at destroying the Serbian people and the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6363	National MP Dragan Todorovic, as amended. Time remaining - five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6364	Ladies and gentlemen, it is, unfortunately, not the first time that the government has given such an insurmountable explanation when it comes to the rejection of amendments proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. The explanation literally states: "The government does not accept the amendment, given that in some cases it will not be possible to prove the credibility of all the data contained in the request for a travel document only on the basis of the credentials of citizenship and identity cards. "I just can't believe it! A document issuing a state is either authentic or has been falsified. If it's falsified, it's determined, it's the one who forged it. We're getting into a situation where political arbitration is possible. Once a part of the citizens, simply who wants it, and it is known to belong to another political option, it is possible, if nothing else, to make life miserable by telling them that other documents must be given in addition to the ID, because the state does not believe in the document it has issued. It's just amazing! In normal states, and if it were lucky that we were such a country, it would be enough to have a home number and to get all the data based on a home number, first of all to get a single polling list. You remember, you promised it, you cried, you cried, you fought, you locked yourself in the toilet here in the Serbian Parliament, you stole some CDs with allegedly unique polling lists, etc. It was the whole farce around it; claims that the only one in some way completes the electoral list or data has the police, but that it has them by segments, or by municipalities as it already runs them, etc. Why are you... You're still explaining that you don't trust yourself. We have, unfortunately, an unsettling event that took place a few days ago. Radovan Karadzic's son was arrested, arrested with our ID card. They took him in, and it was reportedly found that that I.D.... They don't say it was falsified, it was issued by some M.P., by some clerk, but apparently there's no other data needed to issue a ID card. It can happen to anyone. Your political opponent is Marco, Janko, you bring his son in and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Even if he's from Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska... You here have the Prime Minister of the Serbian Krajina in refugee care, which brings you all the problems of the Krajisniks they face in this country. You're going to arrest his son tomorrow, allegedly check the data, and you're going to claim that the identity card that was issued, it's been issued, it's not forged, but there's no other document that was supposed to exist for that I.D. to be issued. Make sure we're a civilized country, so you don't make things like this the way you make it. You're looking for if there's not enough ID and citizenship or any other documents. What kind of documents are these? What other documents are these? Health book, student book? You can have any book you own. Why don't you name it? Let us know, to prepare ourselves in advance, what are the documents that you'll be looking for in case you don't have enough ID and you don't have enough confidence in citizenship. Maybe it's a membership card from some NGO or political party? Those who suit you, say, are now enough to bring in a DSS or DS membership card, although you're not exactly in love, and it's done. The minister can say -- please, it's other documents, it's a party membership card, and there's no dilemma about it. But if someone brings in from the Serbian Radical Party, you won't accept it because it's an internal document issued by the SRS and only has the use of the SRS. You can keep going. Let's just say, you'll just accept the members who paid the membership fee. He paid the membership fee, he could be accepted; he didn't pay the membership fee, he can't, I'm sorry, go pay the municipal board membership fees and there's no problem. There are some parties that charge a percentage of the salary they receive on some companies' boards, which is totally legitimate, but it's not right, solve it another way. Therefore, watch when you propose such laws, when you explain the refusal or acceptance of some amendments, that this argument is too much. Don't put MPs or citizens in a situation where they don't know what kind of state they live in and what happens to them at one point if they get into a situation where some clerk who's in charge of it comes to mind... (President: Mr. Todorovic, you've really broken the time. I'm sorry, I'm finishing up... You don't have enough ID, you don't have enough citizenship, you need some other document. Unfortunately, according to a habit, what a man will do, he will grab his wallet, take out that document, but the document is in a large number of cases the euro, the dollar or some other coin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6365	People's Ambassador Milorad Buh, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6366	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this particular Article 30 in practical application creates huge problems for the refugee population. Internal Affairs authorities are looking for documents published on the MUP site, but they know how to add something else. Now I'll tell you what. These days, we have in the government of Republika Srpska in the persecution of a number of citizens who appear and point to abuses of position. When he comes to the counter, the man is first sentenced to wait, and on the other hand, to fulfill all that the officers on the counter require. Among other things, we received this information, I pointed out earlier, that on the counters, among other things, they were asked to check out from Croatia about their residence. The vast majority, especially men, must not go to Croatia. They can't go and check out. On the other hand, they're looking to sign off from the military department and report to the military department here. Please, what does a travel document have to do with checking out in front of the Croatian military authorities and reporting here? Next, I.D. on paid tax. What difference does the IRS have to do with the IRS? A man who doesn't pay taxes won't give a travel ticket. Here on the M.O.P. site number six says you're looking for an apartment application. Why do you need an apartment application? Are you bringing the landlord into the passport? Do you say in a passport - a man lives in a two-bedroom or three-bedroom apartment or maybe in a bathroom he lives in? Is that what you're bringing into your passport? What do you need that for? Or maybe you're introducing the left-hand owner of the apartment, then the right-hand one, and across the street, which is why you're just causing trouble for the citizens in front of the state authorities. It's particularly problematic for refugees who have to go to Croatia for all of it, to wait there in front of the counter for something they don't need, because it's not being run here. What's that doing in the passport? Next, a copy of the birth certificate. We've got it all on our I.D. First we make a request, a counterworker, an administrative worker, an M.O.P.'s employee checks, his ID card is given to him, check that what's listed in the request corresponds to what's in the ID card. What's the birth certificate for? What's the administrative fee for? A man from Serbia travels there one day, the other day returns, pays taxes, pays transportation there, pays transportation here, etc., for something that is unnecessary. We've got all this stuff on our ID card, so don't get too complicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6367	Is there anyone else in the other parliamentary groups reporting for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 34(1), which reads - number 30 is replaced by 15. This Article 34 refers to the deadline for resolving the application for the issuing of a travel document. The deadline for resolving the submitted application provided for in the draft law shall be 30 days. The SRS amendment should reduce this period of 30 days to 15 days. There are several reasons for this, and this amendment should be adopted, and I will give some reasons. We are aware that modern-day technology has made a lot of progress; the process of data verification has been accelerated and I see no reason to make it difficult to issue a travel document. First of all, this isn't about some massive rush to raise travel documents, passports and other documents that fall into travel documents, so it can't be reached. This is a relatively small number of applications submitted for the local terminals of the MUP, or police stations, so that it would simply be a miracle not to do so within 30 days. Let's take an example of ID: it takes a few days to get it, and that's incomparably more of a requirement than, say, to get a passport. So it turns out that someone who submits a request should, slightly speaking, be spyed, checked, as if someone was a suspicious person, and only then be given, or not, consent to issue a travel document. An official issuing a passport, drawing it by hand, literally, would rather do it than you set this 30-day deadline. But when we know that from the day of the application of this travel document law, a new passport with space will apply, as you have stated, to the automatic reading of data, it opens up some other questions. Does this delay in issuing a travel document allow time for certain citizens to enter into the chip any specific data other than those already entered in the travel document? This was well explained by Serbian Radical Party MP Momir Markovic and General Bozidar Delic. The chip may allow for the monitoring of an individual crossing Serbia's borders with that Serbian passport. Because how does he know what kind of chip can be implanted into his travel document? This may sound incredible, but nothing is impossible, because we know exactly what all individual services are used and engaged in to reach the desired goal. The question is how strong our state administration is to keep secret what we, Serbian citizens, trust in keeping it safe when we get some ID or document, so we attach personal data to a wider or narrow context. I do not believe that one of our current representatives of the government will be sprayed in front of representatives of those who, with their agents brought from the white world, are walking in Serbian mountains looking for Serbian generals and say – we do not give the data, we do not give the codes, etc. Here in Serbia are minority public SAS, MI-5 agents, Delta squad commanders, and who knows who else. We, like, prescribe some safeguards and data protection for Serbian citizens. Here is the minister, so let me ask him if he serves any equipment bought during the ministry of Dusan Mihajlovic without a tender, for which many millions of euros were given, which was intended for the production of new ID cards? Also, we've heard that Carla del Ponte is in Belgrade today, therefore, respected citizens, out of the way so you don't get run over by the big cars following this monster. Carla del Ponte is likely to tell the authorities in Serbia that following the inhumane banishment of Aleksandar Karadzic, son of Radovan Karadzic, exiled and his child -- a baby who had a severe hip operation, with all the fixators and the infusion in her hand. I hope that in the voting day you will accept all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6369	By amendment, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic is in fact an amendment that needs to fix what is a lack in the proposal for this law. If you'll allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only refer to one contradiction in the travel documents law, because the proposal for this law is in certain norms contrary to the Constitution, and it is contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 30. The bill provides: "With a request for a travel document, a ID card or any other document which can identify identity, assurance of nationality - only when the travel document is issued first under the provisions of this law, as well as other public documents proving the information contained in the requirements. "This was just the best explained by MP Dragan Todorovic in front of the Serbian Radical Party, because he has seriously pointed out the possibilities for numerous abuses and what consequences may arise in this regard. What does a member's provision mean now, if we compare the provision of Article 30 with the provision of Article 27(6), which says: "To determine the identity and other facts relevant for resolving a request for the issue of passports, diplomatic passport, official passport and passport, as well as photographing and taking fingerprints and signatures, the presence of a person to whom a travel document is issued is mandatory when filing. "Ladies and gentlemen, the professional public will condemn this very quickly and say, "here's the crazy confused one who makes it funny, not to say anything else. In Article 231. The Code of Criminal Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is prescribed in paragraph 2: "When necessary, in order to determine the identity, or in other cases of interest for the successful conduct of the procedure, the internal affairs authorities may, with the prior approval of the investigating judge, photograph the suspect and take the fingerprints of his fingerprints and publicly publish the photo of the suspect and provide for other actions necessary to determine the identity. "What shall we do now, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? How will the Proposer now explain the standard to be applied now, if the Code of Criminal Procedure explicitly norms and determines that taking fingerprints and photographing a person can be carried out by the internal affairs authority only if there is the approval of an investigative judge and for a solution to a reasoned proposal by the public prosecutor. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, we now have something to break, firstly, the Constitution and secondly, the Code of Criminal Procedure is being broken. Secondary legislation now assumes the role of basic legislation, violates legal logic and violates norms in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll tell you the truth now - when I was in front of the Serbian Radical Party in the federal government I fought for this norm to enter the Code of Criminal Procedure and that the police from the street couldn't catch people by the sleeve, bring them into the office, take fingerprints and photograph, as in the past there have been numerous abuses. We Serbian workers in the federal government fought to respect basic human rights and not allow self-will and abuse. To make things clearer, ladies and gentlemen, that norm was accepted and remained in the Code of Criminal Procedure when the democratic power came to power and adopted amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. She accepted, therefore, those norms and dispositions of the SRS. Therefore, SRS MPs are scramblingly opposed to abuse, self-will and violation of basic human rights. So, Mr Todorovic, in front of the Ministry of the Interior, compare these provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 231, with the proposed provisions of the travel documents law, and above all Article 27, which says that the internal affairs authorities no longer need to seek consent from either the prosecutor or the investigating judge. Why now is it necessary for a citizen to come to the police and ask for a travel document and that one grabs his sleeve and says, "Now you're going to the criminal office, "Crime techniques," to take your fingerprints and take pictures of you in the front and the anfas and see if you can go abroad or not. It's a very serious thing. This is a serious question and I don't know if you'll be able to justify this and whether you can give citizens a valid explanation. Will those citizens who come for travel will be treated as criminals and as suspects if treated in such a way? You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. MPs, if you vote for this norm, you will harshly violate the Constitution and the basic law, which is the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulated the powers of internal affairs authorities when it comes to the measures that it can apply, and above all, taking fingerprints and photographing. This is repression, this isn't -- I come to the counter, fill out the form, and I say go ahead, I wait for you to issue me a passport. No, I don't. One more thing, when it comes to issuing travel documents, since it is very well known to me, you will have this situation: a citizen submits a request for a travel document, an operative goes to check into a building where he lives and goes to a neighbor with whom he does not speak. He says, "Do you know it and do you know it?" He says, "I know it." And where does he live? He lives on the fifth floor. And what kind of man is that? Oh, please don't talk about him. What's he like? No, please, it's a thief, a criminal, a bastard, it's a public enemy. Please, these are extremely important things. Take care, don't let us adopt these laws in a hurry, because it's not about the law on hunting and fishing, or apples and plums, or wine and brandy. It's about the law on the status of our citizens to exercise fundamental human rights. I appeal to the Ministry of the Interior that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, especially in accordance with the European Pact on the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens, Article 6, pay attention and don't let anyone at a small door push the MPs to adopt something that will cause enormous and irreparable damage to our citizens in the exercise of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6371	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6372	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 35. The draft travel documents law refers to cases where the competent authority refuses to grant travel documents. We have five different situations here where the competent authority will do so. We in the SRS have estimated that point 3 point 1 should be deleted from the proposal for this law. What does this point 3 say – that the requesting authority will refuse to issue a travel document if the person requested to issue a travel document complies with the recognised international acts are prohibited from travelling. According to the Serbian Radical Party, this is absolutely unacceptable, but on the other hand, this shows the current government's attitude towards our citizens and the attitude of our citizens towards some international organisations. The position of the SRS is that our citizens can only comply with our laws. You are under the obligation that all legislative proposals, as well as in the Rules of Procedure, and will likely stand in the future, be in line with the European Union's legislation. Therefore, when you pass one such law that you have brought into line with European Union rules, there is no need, nor is it possible to apply any new law, because everything that should have been brought into line with the acts of the European Union you have aligned, harmonised and harmonised through some future regulations. Why did the government reject the amendment of counterpart Zoran Krasic? A very short explanation: "The government does not accept the amendment since the Republic of Serbia is obliged to respect all international acts that bind it. "What does this mean? The Republic of Serbia is obliged to apply, to respect international acts ratified in this parliament, it is required to implement laws that possibly comply with European Union legislation in this Parliament. Not that she doesn't have to, but she can't. He must not put his citizen in an unfavourable position, as it is truly unfavorably said here, not to get a travel document if he is forbidden to travel in accordance with internationally recognised acts. What is going on and why do you have this proposal in this law and why else do you have that kind of proposal in the legislation? The Serbian Radical Party published a book by our President Vojislav Seselj "The Hague Instrumentisation of False Witnesses". The book came out three or four months ago. In April, there was a scientific gathering on this subject. The book contained 34 certified statements by Serbian citizens who were being blackmailed by The Hague investigators only threatened to force them to testify in the Hague case of Dr Vojislav Seselj. I personally interviewed more than 20 of these people and, believe me, I also remember the kind of torture these people were subjected to to to force them to sign a statement that there would be witnesses in The Hague proceedings against Dr Vojislav Seselj. What happened in the meantime? Of course, the general public and the media were not very interested in this scientific gathering, although registered law experts, and from the international level, appeared at the meeting. Of course, we published it the way we normally do it in the general media blockade, when it comes to the process against Dr Vojislav Seselj. Here and there, someone commented, even in some informal conversations, not much was believed in what was written in that book, although I repeat, it was the judicially certified statements of those 34 people. What happened in the meantime? Now you all know it. It's no longer a secret. I'm going to do another digression. At the scientific meeting, I argued that we have data that the Hague investigators have been thinking in Serbia that they are looking for "suitable" people who will be able to recruit to testify against Vojislav Seselj, because the Hague court is facing a major problem. No matter what the trial is scheduled for November 7th, a big question for The Hague tribunal is whether it will have any relevant witnesses, as there are more and more who have even accepted to be witnesses of the UN tribunal, have already made statements, have confirmed that they do not wish to testify, subsequently acknowledge that they have been blackmailed, etc. So definitely The Hague tribunal has that problem. Then what happened these days? Came to Serbia, Patrick Lopez Tere. This is the head of the investigation team, Carla del Ponte, or The Hague. The man hired a judge, a war crimes prosecutor, this unfortunate Vuckovic and his deputy, and they made himself available to Lopez to help him find in Serbia people who are willing to falsely testify against Dr Vojislav Seselj. When Alexander Vukic is at a press conference on Sunday... Otherwise, the defence team Dr Vojislav Seselj holds a press conference every week at 12 o'clock, and at these conferences we regularly meet, we try to introduce the citizens of Serbia to everything that happens in The Hague tribunal. Of course, there are no reports from those conferences. If there are, then it's in half a sentence or mostly a comment by journalists, not directly what was said there. So, when Aleksandar Vucic said that Patrick Lopez Tere appeared, that we had people come to see him with this Vuckovic and his deputy, then a spokesman for The Hague tribunal Bruno Vekaric, who, of course, received a strike on all the TVs, told him that he too, imagine, a lot of these Serbian radicals and SRS statements and he's going to sue him for not knowing who. Bruno Vekaric, that idiot, the one with that icy look, the man who reminds me, I can't even say what kind of people. So, Mr. Batic, I see you're reacting because he's your close associate back in the day, and I know you brought him to the Ministry, that you, before you left the Ministry, put him on the D.A.'s portfolio so he wouldn't get fired from the Ministry from the future government. You don't have to react, I know it without your reaction. This Bruno Vekaric said the radicals attacked this special prosecutor's office and then dared... Mr Batić, you are a kind of lawyer, so say or confirm, nod your head as you nod in a negative sense when I speak of Bruno Vekaric, whether he is as a spokesman or as anyone (except for being a minister in his day, and this previous minister, and he has begun, and this Petrovic, too), whether anyone can comment on an unfair verdict and some important details of that procedure that is not legally concluded. Of course, there's no one right. But Bruno Vekaric gave himself the right to say that radicals are attacking the Special Court because he is in the process of crimes for the crime in "Ovcara", which is being conducted before this special court, reportedly one of the indicted members of the Serbian Radical Party. That's when Bruno Vekaric told a big lie, and I'll tell the truth. Two defendants in the process... Now as a lawyer, I'm doing something I shouldn't do, but for the public's sake, I have to tell this Bruno Vekaric that two of the 17 indictees of the "Ovcaru" were volunteers of the SRS, one is Marko Ljuboja, the other is Slobodan Katic. Unfortunately for you and unfortunately for Bruno Vekaric, both of them have been cleared of the charges. Vesko Krstajic, the judge who conducted the procedure, in the light of the verdict, we have it in a transcript from his oral explanation, says he is sorry, he is convinced that they have committed a crime and a crime, but he regrets that he cannot prove it. Such things are being done to please Carla del Ponte, who is today a guest at Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic, and I don't know who. In one more sentence, everything related to this crime case in "Ovcara" was published in the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj "Political partner of the whore Del Ponte and the whores of del Kostunica". There's all the details published.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6373	Mrs Radeta, on many occasions you have used expressions that are not worthy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Replica, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6374	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Rusheta mentioned Bruno Vekaric. (President: Mrs Radeta. I'm sorry. She mentioned Bruno Vekaric, my former associate and man who is truly an outstanding lawyer, but I am not his defender, I am not his attorney, and I have no intention of defending Mr Vekaric because of Mrs Radeta's statement here. I reacted because I cannot be offended in such a way by people who are not present. They can't be insulted by people with expressions from the congregation's pay phone: an idiot, an unfortunate person, etc. It's already a matter of some elemental order, of a civilization level. Therefore, you can also criticise Bruno Vekaric and anyone else, but still, because of Parliament's respect for the respect of Serbian citizens who are following these debates, should refrain from such expressions. Mr. Chairman, I answered not to replicate Mrs. Radetti, because she didn't say anything to me but to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. My question is, who knows which time, when and when will Serbia get the Constitutional Court? This is the only country in Europe, remember, the only country in Europe – it is, unfortunately, our shame and our humiliation, because here, in this room, the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected – which has no Constitutional Court. I use the term country on purpose, it can't be a state, it can't be a legal state, and that's the problem. What are the reflections of Serbia's lack of a Constitutional Court? Well, we're in vain adopting all these laws. Each should be subject to a constitutionality assessment. A set of laws that are now on the agenda, so analphabetically amended by various amendments the government has accepted, are crawling with violations of the Constitution, especially the law on citizenship and travel documents. I didn't answer for a word, because it's not worth answering for. These laws were made by people whose level of legal knowledge is as if they had never passed the Law School, not that they were not inside, or in the first year, but as if they had never passed. I wonder what kind of government this is that suggests these laws of analphabetic type. Well, in the village labor community, somewhere in the middle of nowhere, we wouldn't be suggesting these kinds of laws. It's not worth answering, it's not worth wasting time, because it's just not worth anything. That's the problem. There is one more thing that depends greatly on the Constitutional Court and the possible reaction of the Constitutional Court, which is the election. Here every day, the ruling coalition makes Serbian citizens happy with the story of the elections. One in a wedge, the other in a board, and then a third in order to say, we are in great unity, cohesion, there is an idyll among us, we have sworn eternal love. Serbian citizens wonder, it is an insult to their intelligence. One more thing, if the Constitutional Law on Elections is respected, elections should be called by the end of the year or 60 days after the law is passed. Again, it can't be before the end of the year. So if the constitutional law is respected, elections can be held by the end of March next year, at the earliest. That's what you from the Democratic Party want. Your coalition partners don't want that either. They want the choice never to be, because why should there be a choice, so they rule. You've allowed yourself to be a puppet and we don't need elections, but it needs to be evaluated and evaluated by the Constitutional Court, and we don't have a Constitutional Court. No result is given by these consultations of the heads of parliament clubs. Don't come to the agenda anything. We see that the proposals for various laws for future sessions are coming, and we do not see among them the draft laws on the Constitutional Court and on the conduct or procedure before the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it seems that this is the distraction of all the MPs and all the citizens by the ruling coalition, because if we do not have a Constitutional Court, there is no legislative activity, and Parliament and the speaker of parliament should be the main founders of something you called the Constitution, which is far from the basic act of a country by European standards and we are all critical of it, but we respect it even as it is. I am telling you this on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia and on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group. Mrs. Radeta, I'm sorry to have machinally permuted your last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6375	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, by amendment, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6376	Please, just don't count my time, I want you on behalf of the Verse Radete, regarding her statement that Bruno Vekaric is an idiot, explaining what Mrs Radeta meant.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6377	Mr. Todorovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6378	Allow me, please, so what does that look like? I want to tell you that she thought...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6379	Don't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6380	I want to explain, and you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6381	Here, I'll give you your time, I'm not interrupting anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6382	She meant the original interpretation of the Greek word "idiot" that marks a man who doesn't deal with politics. If Bruno Vekaric is involved in politics, I guarantee that Verica Radeta will apologize to Bruno Vekaric. That's all she had in mind to say, nothing else. As far as the amendments are concerned, we ask for the third point of Article 35 to be deleted – if the person required to issue a travel document complies with recognised international acts are prohibited from travelling. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are once again in a situation where the state authority issuing the passport may not issue a passport to a person and call upon this member and to this point and explain to no other person why the passport has not been issued. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that there are some acts of some states, or groups or some international organisations that put certain persons on some lists; in countries where they can act, such as Montenegro, imagine, if the UN tribunal suspects that someone is doing something, it is sufficient to send a list of persons and not only allow those persons on that list to enter a country, but not issue a passport at all. Unfortunately, there have also been cases with our country that the citizens of this country are being placed on the so-called so-called state. Blacklists. Well, they couldn't order them to be banned from issuing passports, but they were banned from entering certain states. We remember those times. You know how they made those lists? A variety of NGOs from Serbia delivered the names of people, even the company's names were put on that list, but by nature things, as they are, took individuals and companies off those lists for money. Now the problem is that the state accepts that an international organisation delivers such a document and makes it impossible for our citizens to obtain a passport. You have the latest case. It's tied to Belarus. A number of Belarusian politicians are blacklisted and cannot travel to the European Union. They can't even transit through some countries of the European Union if they have to fly from plane to plane, because they'll be sent back to the airport. Why are we letting ourselves do this? Why do we allow our country to be a political service and punish our citizens because someone out there in the white world is not willing for some reason, so they need to be denied the basic right they have - to get a passport and travel?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6383	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6384	I think there's about five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6385	No, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6386	Okay, I'm done. Why would we do that? Tell me, what are the international documents that oblige you not to issue to our citizen who is seeking a travel document? Are international documents, for example, the documents of some NGOs, because they are organisations established abroad, but from the governments of those countries that founded them. By the logic of the matter, they will issue you a document perhaps, so you will not issue a passport on the basis of this document to a non-citizen, let's say, Sonja Licht, Natasha Kandic, that I don't order them all. Either specify international documents that may prohibit the issuing of passports or delete this from the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6387	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6388	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on travel documents by proposing that Article 35, paragraph 2, put a dot on the line and add the words "except in the cases provided for by this law". Therefore, the proposal for a travel documents law sets out the procedure for issuing travel documents and regulates issues essentially related to the issuing of travel documents, so that the proposed member is taxed when the authority will not issue a travel document, in order to ensure that Article 2 on which I tabled the amendment is not refused. I have proposed by amendment, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to this attitude 2 by supplementing it and specify it in the words "except in the cases provided for by this law". Given that the law must be clear, precise and explicit, i.e. legal norm, I think that by adopting this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party, the law would be improved. True, you have made it clear to Article 17, regarding this position 2, and you say that the passport issues a diplomatic or consular representation in which a Serbian citizen who has lost his travel document has found himself abroad. In that case, the diplomatic or consular representation must carry out a check on the status of the citizen, and of course only after that verification would there be a possible non-refusing of the issue of the request. Therefore, in the sense of applying that legal norm itself, as well as the application of the law relating to the issuing of documents, and in order to avoid various possible abuses and malfeasances, this position must be specified and explained by this law. That is why I really believe that this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party is justified, well-intentioned and would only improve the legal norm. So I suggest you adopt it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6389	Mr. Jojic, by the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? Here you go, Mr. Jojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6390	First, I'll take the Rules of Procedure, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6391	By the Rules of Procedure or by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6392	I'll do it first. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking one parliamentary question to the Ministry of the Interior, to other state authorities and resolutions that are competent to carry out the checks, whether in Serbia there are unauthorized persons who take various statements from our citizens and who fear that they will someday take them to The Hague unless they agree to co-operate with certain persons. The Serbian Radical Party points out that, as said by MPs in previous performances, a number of our citizens have been invited recently to take certain statements from them, that those statements should be used in The Hague against SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj. Ladies and gentlemen, in countries with developed rights, which are in the first row of England and Wales, in a precipice procedure cannot be used in the main search of statements taken by the police or by the prosecution, or by other state authorities on the main search. Such statements must be excluded and must not be joined in the main search for trial. Ladies and gentlemen, in these countries, and in other examples of work, I will state England and Wales, properly guarantee protection against the risk of harmful publicity in previous stages of the process. What does that mean? Is it possible for a public prosecutor, a special prosecutor, a Supreme Court judge, a district court judge or any state office holder? The judicial authority has made statements in the media that someone is already guilty and that someone should already be convicted? This is obvious in the case of Professor Vojislav Seselj, who, through the media, is accused without any material evidence, absolutely without any legally valid and relevant evidence. I will remind you how much in some democratic countries pay attention to the protection of a certain person because until someone is declared guilty, he is considered innocent. That protection exists to preserve the presumption of innocence, which I have mentioned. When a conviction is passed after a very unfavourable publicity... You see, Bruno Veharic does not belong to the holders of judicial functions, but to a member of a political party and he performs as a politician. He cannot and cannot, from today on he cannot make statements through the media when it comes to Professor Vojislav Seselj and others accused before any court, domestic or foreign. He can't answer. For example, in one case in France, three people were accused of conspiracy to prepare an assassination for the home of a minister. They sun-sun used their right to remain silent to the main search. While the main search was still ongoing, the minister gave a television interview on a legal project and voiced his opinion that those who use the right to remain silent are most often guilty. Therefore, the Court of Appeal annulled and abolished the decision that had been made earlier, unfavourable for them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if the defendant contests a statement made before the police or prosecutor in this country, whether from the UN tribunal, or from the Special Court in Belgrade, the statement must not be put on the case for the main investigation to be tried by Professor Vojislav Seselj as an illicit remedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6393	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 39. Serbia's Radical Party Urges to Delete Position 2. I will read to you this article in order to understand what this is about and why we are asking for this position to be deleted 2: "All the facts that result in the termination of the grounds for refusal of the travel document and the withdrawal of the travel document by the court or other state authority shall immediately inform the authority responsible for issuing the travel document. "We believe that this is a completely complete attitude. If the grounds for refusal to issue a travel document cease, the competent authority of the internal affairs must immediately be informed and the person who is prohibited from issuing the travel document shall be issued a passport immediately. Item 2: "The grounds for refusal of a travel document, i.e. the reasons for the withdrawal of a travel document, shall be deemed to have ceased if the competent court does not renew the request under Article 1 within six months of the date of application or the withdrawal of the travel document. "Why do you need this for the next six months? By what right? If the reasons have ceased, it will take another six months for the court to inform the competent authority that a passport is issued to the person. Why do we have confidence in the court that even in this case he can't be abused and that politics can't involve its fingers? Unfortunately, the SRS points to all the problems we've had in our lives that we've encountered. We do not want any of the citizens of Serbia, nor any of you to come into a position to him at one point, because one political option is in power, in all possible ways, making life worse for those who consider political opponents. I personally had the experience that the investigative judge gave up the investigation, but that solution until today I didn't get, the solution to stop. Information has arrived, but it's not an official solution. As the solution initiates the investigation, a solution must also be made to suspend the investigation. That's the only way the court can work. Since the charge was completely false, they extend the abuse of their official position by not making a solution. Now take an example of a citizen who is unable to end it; he will simply be prevented from receiving passports for another six months, because the court did not find it appropriate to inform the competent authority immediately. Therefore, this point 2 should be deleted and only attitude 1 should remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6395	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6396	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a very brief indication of some illogicalness in the very text of Article 2 that we're proposing to delete. I will read you item 1 and item 2 together in order to understand the link: "All the facts which result in the termination of the requirements for the issuing of a travel document and the withdrawal of a travel document by a competent court or another state body", remember this part, "it is necessary to notify immediately to the authority responsible for issuing a travel document. "And in Section 2: "It will be considered that the grounds for refusal of the travel document, i.e. the reasons for the withdrawal of the travel document, have ceased if the competent court within six months... "and so on. Where's the other authority? So total illogicality in attitude 2. Legally confusing and illogical in its own sense. Also, in addition to what Mr Dragan Todorovic said that there is a possibility of abuse of this member, which is - why would someone whose reasons for not issuing a travel permit stop after two weeks or after a month of application wait six months, to look, on the other hand, what if it happens... You know the situation in our justice system, in our courts. The courts are buried with a large number of cases. There's a lot of cases with the judges. What if, after six months, there are reasons not to issue a travel document to a person without the competent court delivering this information to the competent national authority? The competent state authority will be obliged to issue a travel document which remains a reason not to be issued a travel document. Of course, in that case, there is the possibility that corruption, through bribery or any other information, could be placed in the drawer, just a few weeks or a month, that the passport would be issued to that person, and then that information would arrive and the ministry would not be able to act. These are concrete and essential reasons that show that there is a reasonable doubt that there is a possibility of abuse of attitude 2. This is really not an attempt to change the essence of the law, but that this part that can be misused will be expelled, and we think that the law will be far more quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6397	The word is made by MP Milosav Milickovic, on behalf of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which was explained by MP Dragan Todorovic, gave me a real opportunity and a chance to tell Mr Todorovic the next thing. In 2003, nearly 12,000 people were arrested in an anti-sabbean action, of which only 40 were justified, or there were some elements, some or so. Processed, how many -- maybe a dozen people. They're not all deleted, I think it's called an information-technical terminal, and that's why they can't get basic personal documents, that I don't speak other rights, so I'm asking you to correct this mistake and injustice against the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6399	National MP Petar Jojic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6400	Ladies and gentlemen, this norm as a disposition absolutely seems vague and incomprehensible -- six months, what MP Dragan Todorovic pointed out, regarding the obligation to notify of the termination of the reason for refusing to issue a travel document. Be careful, we repeat Serbian radicals for the fifth time: "All the facts resulting in the termination of the requirements for the issuing of a travel document and the withdrawal of a travel document by a competent court or another state body shall immediately inform the authority responsible for issuing a travel document. "It is not clear to me as a lawyer which is another state body. The court understands every time they read this law. The judge, when he gets the case by accident under this law to judge, or the judge for the offense, will be clear to him. It's a court of law. Now we don't understand, and we in the SRS want to fix your mistakes and these failures you've made, this is good intentions, we also point to previous members when there were -- and other documents, here you are now -- and other organs. Now I'm asking you what other organs they are. The next thing you know is absolutely unacceptable, he says he'll let you know right away. You know how it's gonna be with some state authorities, bureaucrat? Right away - after six months or after a year, because the citizen doesn't know the reasons why their travel document was taken away. Not within three days. Gentlemen, if you want the law to be respected and that bureaucrat who does not comply with the law is required to inform the citizen within three days that the reasons have ceased, and in particular, we underline this, because we have a large number of our citizens waiting in front of the embassies; from 2000 to today, hundreds of thousands of people are waiting in line before the embassies to go looking for a job because this power could not employ the citizens, although it has promised it. So, it's extending the deadline and it's not set. The deadlines must be precise and therefore we believe that the text of this law is not good. He could have been far better, because in practice as he passed the court office, the other authority, the public prosecutor... What are we going to do if an investigative judge brings a solution and says - an investigation against that and that, the attorney general should give consent, and the attorney general should keep quiet and say - now I won't, judge, here it is, but I won't give you a travel document. I don't want to agree to give him travel papers. If the public prosecutor says - he cannot be issued a travel document, he remains in effect that measure silently, no one knows, no citizen knows. In practice, this is dangerous. Maybe our ministry, the people who work at the Ministry don't have enough experience on the ground and in practice what's going on, and that's why we point to this phenomenon. One parliamentary question, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President. MPs from other political parties, and we've been asking these questions before. Now I ask the question again, because I asked that question to the Justice Department, so the Justice Department answered me that it was not competent. Now I ask the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia -- how many pending cases are in the works? How many judges and what age? You see, if you adopt this caucus proposal, I would like to apply for the protection of the legality or the assessment of the constitutionality of this law. I do not have that option, because you will disable it, and that is what MP Batic was talking about - where is your Constitutional Court. We Serbian radicals ask the question -- how many unsolved items are there? It's thousands of cases, according to some knowledge. That is why I ask the Constitutional Court, since the Ministry of Justice has announced that it does not belong to their jurisdiction, to answer how many pending cases there are, as this depends on the exercise of the constitutional rights of our citizens and the Constitutional Court should stand in the way of red tape and lawlessness, if we can in future, and expect that, Serbian citizens, from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6401	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6402	I'm sorry the minister isn't here, I suppose he'd adopt some of our proposals if he were present, because we'd be able to convince him. I speak from experience. Now one group has been working on a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, and I have noticed that many of the objections made in the adoption of the old Rules of Procedure (I am speaking because of the amendment to this article), are now accepted, because we have asked it to be much more precise. Here's what we suggest. He says: "On travel documents and visas issued, on denied travel documents and visas, on withdrawn travel documents, visa cancellations and invalid travel documents, and on items 35, item 1. 1) – 4) of this Act shall be kept in the prescribed manner. "We ask that it be said, in accordance with the provisions of this law. This law regulates this matter. Why sign something new now? We've also asked for the third word "mandatory minister" to be replaced by the words "competent ministry". Why give the Minister a chance? The D.O.D. should do it. I think this is more accurate, and it kind of makes it impossible to interpret differently. It'd be safer if this was the way it'd be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6403	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Natasa Jovanovic has tried to correct what has been missed by the legislator in a legal-technical sense in two of the terms of this article and in a linguistic-logical and normative sense. In Article 45(1), it suggests that the words "in a prescribed manner" should be deleted, because it is not said in this article which is the prescribed way, and does not come from the context of the law what is the prescribed way. It suggests that the words "in a prescribed manner" are replaced by the words "in accordance with the provisions of this law", so that in the context of the law, what is it? Furthermore, its suggestion goes in this direction not to repeat certain actions taken by the state authority and the procedures it conducts, and therefore to keep records. So, since the law must be brief and clear, there is no need in the law to list all that will be in the records. Records as records, they're something that runs the organ. It is unnecessary in a normative sense in the law to speak who keeps the records. It is appropriate to lead the MUP, as the MUP conducts the administrative procedure, conducts certain actions and therefore adopts certain acts and maintains that record. Why standard it here through certain attitudes and extend the provisions of this law? You said no. Let's move on. Since it's always a short time, I'll take advantage of the secretary's presence here, the minister doesn't have to point to certain problems with the refugee Corps. On several occasions, when I say I am talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia in persecution, we have addressed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of State and other state bodies, and we have specifically asked the Commissioner for Refugees, as a state body, to take certain actions towards the procedures that will allow the refugee Corps to reach documents that cannot be obtained in normal procedure in front of our state bodies. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not respond to our appeals. Everything the refugee Corps has, it doesn't interest her. We will not mention, I will only say with one sentence that it is a shameful apology of the president of the state in Croatia, and that no moment mentions the problems and the evil fate of the Krajina people. The government of the Republic of Serbia violates international law provisions, violates various international standards, international conventions. In the principle debate, I pointed out the provisions of the International Convention on Refugee Status and I repeat and appeal once again, especially to the Ministry of Interior, which must be applied, as this is an integral part of the legal and legal life of the Republic of Serbia. The International Convention, which has been adopted, obliges all national authorities. This international convention requires a favourable attitude towards refugees, states in the provision of Article 25 that state authorities provide administrative assistance, I will not list everything, but exactly – administrative assistance to refugees. That doesn't seem right. Come to the municipality, you will not be able to get legal aid anywhere in terms of obtaining certain legal actions, procedures, etc. I'm referring to article 27 on identity papers. The provision of this Convention clearly states that everything in the Member State will be issued. As far as travel documents are concerned, Article 28 says – states Parties will issue all documents to refugees, unless it is contrary to security and imperative reasons for which they will not be able to issue certain documents. Further provisions, not to mention. In the case of travel documents, travel documents will be issued on the basis of previously issued documents received by refugees in the country from which they came. You don't do that. You're making it complicated, looking for certain documents, not to repeat it now. Next, Article 29. In the case of fiscal obligations, he says - the states of the parties will not subject refugees to taxes, taxes and taxes. We're exposed, when I say I mean refugees, and taxes, and taxes and taxes. I appeal once again, on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska, and I ask that you act as the international convention requires, that you have a favored relationship with refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6405	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6406	Mr. Prescribing, I'm sorry the President of the Assembly isn't here because of him, in accordance with the provisions of Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I ask for specific explanations. The session is coming to an end today, and he's showing up at my door and I can't tell if he's coming or not, so I'm going to ask these questions through the pay phone like this. I'm starting now, so don't count me in on this time. So, a question for the President of the Assembly – when will a set of judicial laws be found on the agenda, because it is a huge job that needs to be completed by the end of the Second Regular Session? Given what's ahead of us, there's no way of ending it, if it's not already on the agenda, let's say, next session of the National Assembly, which it isn't. Then we will have a judiciary in a completely poor, amorphous state, with a completely decomposed structure of both the judicial and the prosecution organisations, with an undefined status of individual courts that exist only formally but not in fact. So, after a pensioner who was a republican public prosecutor, we now have a republican public prosecutor in V.D. condition. Given this pace that provides for constitutional law, it may take almost a year. It is the same Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, otherwise a participant in the National Coalition rally on December 4th last year. Unfortunately, Belgrade district attorney is also a V.D. And there we had a pensioner, now we have a V.D. That's one question. The second question is, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. Constitutional Law – will the President of the National Assembly call elections for the President of the Republic by 31 December of this year? In order to be called earlier, in accordance with the alternative provision of the Constitutional Law, a law should be adopted on the President of the Republic, on the election of the President of the Republic, on defence, on foreign affairs and security services, and it is clear that they cannot be passed and that, after that, 60 days cannot possibly be before the new year. So will the president of the National Assembly call elections for the President of the Republic by December 31st? If not, will this constitutional law be amended? If neither, what is the status, or position of the President of the Republic, from January 1st, or will Serbia have a legal president of the Republic, holding the letters of the Constitutional Law? The third question for the president of the assembly – when will the national initiative of more than 20,000 citizens, which dates back to a year and a half ago, be put on the agenda to cancel the television subscription? To prevent RTS from threatening citizens every night with any kind of lawsuits and not doing what is otherwise against the constitution, the Democratic Party filed the initiative two years ago. There's no Constitutional Court and this isn't put on the agenda, this hack is still going on. But I don't understand why RTS is so hooky, if it claims that 80-90% of Serbian citizens pay their subscription. It's not true, because it's not up to everybody's wedding. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6407	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 49th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6408	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 49, where I proposed that Article 1 be added to Article 2 which reads: "The data provided by the competent authority immediately informs the person whose data has been sent to the foreign authorities. "Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive question, it's about personality data, about our citizen's data. This data cannot be easily manipulated. A large space for numerous abuses is being opened here. Serbia will represent, if this bill is adopted as it is, related to the ID card, an electronic concentration. As many in other countries as there have been opposition to these cards and manipulation of citizens' personal data, here, I will now show you on one occasion. Until the late 70s, the citizens of France had a ID made of paper and an easy forgeries. So in 1979, the interior ministry began to introduce new ID cards that were supposed to be better, to provide for counterfeiting and to be more reliable for control. But the voices of opposition were heard immediately. Human rights organisations and journalists have begun to raise this issue at the highest level, and some have pointed out that this could mean limiting the right to freedom of movement. In 1981, Socialist Francois Mitteran came to power, who said that the introduction of computer ID cards meant depriving human rights and that France as a country of freedom could not apply them. A similar attitude was expressed by Justice Minister Robert Badinter, who considered computer ID cards to be a direct violation of privacy. The interior ministry then withdrew an initiative to introduce this guy's ID cards. Here's an example of a great country that withdrew its proposal more than 20 years ago, because it saw that this experiment could do harm to the citizens, and it couldn't be useful. With this data and data exchange with international organisations or states, you will not be able to easily control what purposes the UN tribunal will now look for data on Vojislav Seselj, where he lived, when he was born and where he graduated from college, and they will seek from The Hague tribunal and a blood count of professors of Dr Vojislav Seselj, and how many red and white blood cells he has. That's what citizens don't know, and some authorities can abuse and cause enormous damage to our citizens. I'd just like to draw your attention for a few minutes to how it stands in parallel law, ladies and gentlemen. In the U.S., there's almost an allergic reaction to ID cards. In 1971, there were attempts to verify the social security number in the national identification card, but the initiative was rejected. Similar initiatives have failed, precisely on the basis of demands to protect the right to privacy. So every citizen's data is protected. In 1973, 1976, 1977 and 1981, both Carter and Reagan's administration refused to introduce such identity cards, such identification documents. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign intelligence services in our country have outposts and have their own resources, occupied the entire parts of our country, and there are no institutions, no bodies in which they are not installed, especially from England and other countries that do and whose intelligence is uninterrupted and without any obstacles collect intelligence and destroy the state of Serbia. The bill now allows them to receive electronic data for each citizen of Serbia in 15 seconds. What's that? Is that how we protect the state, our national interests and our citizens? We don't protect our citizens like this. Many intelligence officers, under the mask of businessmen who come to invest in our country, will be able to access the basic data they are interested in, so that they can either privatise the EPS, or the NIS, or create chaos and revolution in this country and reoccupy it. So you'll make it possible for them if this data exchange is achieved in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, and the citizens of Serbia, I was scared today, because I heard a news report this morning: that the Ojah Guard had occupied the airport and performed the exercises. Who knows what will happen to Serbia, because the guards from Ohio came with one general, and in fact it's not about the guard, it's civil defense and social protection. The defence minister and the Democratic Party have presented to the Serbian public that Serbia is co-operating with other foreign factors, with major armed forces and that these armed forces will be support for the Serb army, which fell on a beggar stick. Well, should Ohio come to us here, occupy our airports and perform our exercises? Why didn't you invite the Russians, gentlemen of the democratic bloc, to show you the latest missiles that no one in the world has ever produced? It is the great Russia that can help Serbia and do not hope that those from the West will help you and help the citizens of Serbia. Don't even believe them when they bring you presents. In this proposal, Mr Todorovic, why do I not address you as a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, you did not write that a Cyrillic would be used when writing passports and the passport forms in French and English, and why did you not add them in Russian? When the Serbian Radical Party comes to power, it will be its first to make an alliance with Russia, and it will always have a priority in these areas. And get us a Russian passport, too, certainly, without any interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6409	The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to article 50 refers to the range of penalties for certain infringements relating to travel documents. When it comes to giving fines by judges for violations, we're all aware that we have a lot of examples, I'm not saying that it's a practice, a certain abuse of such penalties. One way to reduce such abuse is to reduce the range of penalties by one particular offence. That's where one question is now. Since the crimes here are easily proven, there is no place for a judge to doubt whether the act was done or not, so if he suspects, and yet there are more indications that a real act has been done then he decides for a minor sentence, if he's sure, for a harder one. There's no such thing here. So here are the pieces that are easy to prove. However, there is now another problem. In the government's explanation, the amendment is rejected because these penalties are already provided for by the Law on Violations, so this should only be brought into line with the Law on Violations. So it's more about technical form than legal law. Now the second question is: are these crimes or crimes? Are they possible or not possible? To go from point 1), where it says - a fine will punish a person who owns more than one travel document of the same kind. Who should take care of that if not the issuing authority? How many stories about that automatic data processing, reading, enrolling in passports, chips. This is where the minister showed extraordinary knowledge about electronics. I'm really amazed. I think the kids in elementary school know more than he knows about all the stuff he's been saying here. When you're using that electronics to issue travel documents, how is it possible that the same person with the same data gets two identical travel documents? That's impossible. It's impossible, who knows how to process the data automatically and knows that we live in the 21st century. It seems that you of the DSS are still not aware that we have been living in a time of automatic data processing, information, etc. for a long time. It's almost impossible for a person to have two passports. Perhaps the minister proves by his example, perhaps the rest of you, the rest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, has two of the same passports. I don't know what you need. Your conscience is probably not clear, because when this government falls, the government of the SRS comes, hardly many from this current government will have passports. Point 2) says that a fine will punish a person who corrects his travels to serve others. Isn't that a crime already? It's a crime, and I really don't see why it's in broken legislation. These high-level lawyers should know that even crimes that appear to be criminal acts, but less socially dangerous and as such are treated as violations, and the Constitution guarantees that one person can not be tried twice, can neither be tried in criminal proceedings nor in criminal proceedings. It would be more realistic if there were only one procedure – criminal, because for such a crime, a more severe punishment is provided. Point 3 says that a fine of between 3,000 and 30,000 dinars will punish a person who, by giving false information, results from the competent authority issuing a travel document and using such a travel document. You see, here you have written one great nonsense: "and use your pathway." If he's already won, it's enough, he doesn't have to travel with such a travel document, it's also a crime and why he's not being punished. At the beginning of my presentation, I talked about the time in which we live, so one simple question is asked – how can he display false information and obtain a valid travel document? How? As far as I know, passport needs, firstly, citizenship confidence, residence certificate and ID card. In all three documents there must be one data that is completely identical, and that is the unique home number of citizens, 13 digits. How can a person who has the right identity card abuse it and display some false information to get a travel document? It's impossible. All of this has to be a match. When data are entered, before a travel document is issued, everything is checked, so waits. It's not just a story -- we're waiting for the signature until the chief gets here, so he'll sign, so we'll give you a passport. No, it's for a data check. Who can be responsible if someone gets a travel document based on false data? The face that betrayed her, and that's what a face does in a state organ. It takes much more sanctions to bear than the one who tried in some way to abuse the state and get to that travel document. In any case, all this I have listed has already been resolved in the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia and there is no place for you to make parallel legislation, whether criminally, whether criminally. It's your practice. At one point, many judges will wonder which law to apply, because the criminal and criminal legislation regulated by the basic laws and criminal and criminal legislation that is being dealt with by Lex specialis provisions in certain laws, where guilt and offense are not matter, are often in collegiate. What law will be applied by a competent judge, what position will the Supreme Court take, how long will it take until the case-law is established? These are all questions that we haven't been getting an answer to for a long time, and this congregation majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia are doing nothing to solve these problems that already exist. Not only are they not working to get rid of them, but they're doing nothing to stop that mess that's created and that's increasing, it's simply stopping. Since October 5th, according to that people's "and blind coke finds a grain", you might also write some good law. The problem isn't with laws, the problem with you is that the laws are being applied selectively, that you're working with people who break laws, the problem is that you obviously owe them something, so these are reasons why both this government and all the governments since 5 October do not have a great reputation and trust in the people and the time is running out. As for the selective application of the law, when there is a debate in the details of violence at sports events, at games, I will give you an example of what a selective application of the law looks like, especially when it comes to these "fairies" from a political party that is also referred to as the encrypted party. You know, every party gets a name: the Democratic Party calls it a "yellow company", and these in G17 call it "G17%". I ask the question - why?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6411	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6412	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to article 51. The bill, which says: "A fine of 4,000 to 40,000 dinars will be fined for a violation that does not, without delay, report to the competent authority for issuing a travel document missing or finding it. With my amendment, I suggest that the number "40,000" be replaced by "20,000", and that's appreciated by several circumstances. First, if you look at Article 52, which provides for a fine of 40,000 to 50,000 dinars, where a responsible person is punished in the authority responsible for issuing travel documents if the requirement for issuing a travel document does not resolve it within the prescribed time limit, etc., you will see that the social danger is far greater in this second article (and that an almost identical penalty is proposed in the maximum amount), but if the person who lost it did not report it at the time or, as it is said here, in the shortest time, the disappearance of the travel document. Secondly, if we look at the moment in which we live and the social situation, that 40,000 dinars today are two average salaries in Serbia, we believe that this punishment is too high and that it can be inappropriate for most citizens who do so accidentally. The range of 4,000 to 40,000 dinars is, by the way, too high and the judge, who will not have clear definitions here, leaves all the metrics to decide, in a piece that is perfectly clear, where there is no possibility of introducing any such or such circumstances; it leaves the possibility that, on the basis of his discretionary right, I am determining the penalty, which is indeed within a vast range. Members of the SRS, when they tell you about this very important law, say it for a reason because we are, above all, proud of Serbia, proud of our country, our independence, and we want to be proud in every aspect when we carry our only country with us and perform anywhere abroad, whether citizens travel as private persons or we do it as MPs or anyone else in any capacity. We propose all these changes and additions, because we want the issue of passports and use to be faster, safer and better for the citizens of Serbia. The invulnerability of the data these passports carry is only part of the amendments provided for by Serbian radicals. I'll remind you in this situation of a case that took place in 2001. Some may have already forgotten, but it was a big scandal back then, when then Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic completely illegally, with then Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, ordered special machinery for making passports for Serbia's MUP. The passport printing business, which until then was carried out by the Banknote Agency, wanted to transfer to the authority of the Serbian Republic's MUP. Of course, I don't need to remind you that for these machines, which were really the latest and most expensive ones at the time, an even greater amount was allocated. When we compared it, we saw that there was definitely a million-dollar commission. Apart from the Serbian radicals who spoke publicly, no one wanted to initiate any procedure on the matter. What happened in 2001? Since those machines arrived in Serbia, they've been in police warehouses for five years. Afterwards, when it decided to take over the work of Topcider's Banknote Office, with the supervision of the MUP, to start printing passports, or making these new passports, it happens that we are now using machines that were most modern six years ago, but are already at the border to be obsolete, machines that are fabulous, with fees paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's going on? In this area where these machines are presently located in the Department of Banknote Making, construction works are not completed, which are, in fact, preparing for the start of work. No IDs were completed in September, except for the pilot of copies and passports and ID cards. You now have a situation where no one in Serbia knows who's guilty and responsible for what happened. I think Serbian citizens have the right to know who will be responsible for this criminal and criminal behavior. We call on the authorities to do their job. If they don't, I guarantee them that when Serbian radicals come to power, they'll find a place for every criminal, and that's prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6413	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6414	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, if Mr. Dragan Jocic were in the interior room, I would ask him if he wanted to look like Mladjan Dinkic. He'd say, "Who, me? Save it, God, I don't want it at all." Now I'm going to show him through these legal provisions that he's trying to look like him, or someone who's been a little more involved in making this law. The colleagues who were in the previous meeting remember that when the Tax Administration Act was adopted and the tax administration in 30 places said that they would regulate the minister more closely for finance or that they would bring special forms. There are similar norms in this law that point to that. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 54. A bill on travel documents that, after the wording, "the procedure for resolving travel documents is to be started" adds "15 days before the date of application of this law will end under the provisions of this law". Why did the Serbian Radical Party propose to amend the 54th member who, by the way, is part of the transitional and final provisions of the law? So there's no retroactivity. Therefore, what was submitted earlier should be decided under the applicable law, and what was filed 15 days before the entry into force of this law should be terminated under the provisions of this law. I must remind you once again, Mr. Todorovic, but not this one from the SRS, that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted 17 amendments to this law. If you remember the amendment to Article 9 submitted by Ms Verica Radeta, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it has shown in the best way that we in the SRS rise above your personal interests and wishes, when he suggested that diplomatic passport or special passport should not be assigned to members of the family household of those who possess this diplomatic passport. Then Momir Markovic suggested, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that the passport be valid for 10 years instead of five, which you accepted. Then, counterpart Nemanja Sarovic defined what the passport should contain, therefore, that this law regulates itself, which is the intensity of which General Bozidar Delic spoke, so that we can tell our citizens what the passport form will look like. It is interesting that Zlatan Jovanovic, in Article 20, also suggested that the diplomatic passport is not valid for five years, but while there are reasons why he was issued. Mr Todorovic, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I must warn you of the following: given that Mr Momir Markovic's amendment was accepted that the passport was valid for ten years, then this in Article 20, where it seemed that the diplomatic passport and the official passport were issued with a period of validity of 5 years, should be aligned with this Article 19, to which the amendment was submitted by Mr Momir Markovic. So that's what you're supposed to have in mind so there's no conflict in the application of this law. There's one more thing I need to pass on to you and you can pass it on to Mr. Secretary Dragan Jocic. When it comes to issuing a credentials on citizenship (response, Mr Todorovic on you, because if it were Dragan Todorovic from the SRS, no one should warn, it would already be resolved on time), citizens have been waiting too long for a solution to the problem of citizenship. In response to fellow MP Zlatan Jovanovic, who signed on behalf of the government Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic, it seems to me that a tax of 560 dinars is being paid. That's not true. The total amount when applying for citizenship assurance is, I can't be completely accurate, about 10,000 dinars. Now the citizens and they're expensive in some way, because they're going to exercise some rights, but to transfer the minister to influence, I can't argue that, in addition to those taxis that are official, there's something else to pay at this point, but just to respond faster, because I know that there are persons who filed that request after 2000, and this problem isn't solved even to this day. It's to be done as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6415	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 55. Proposal for a travel document law. Article 1 The bill reads: "The rules under the power of this law will be adopted within three months of the date of entry into force of this law." In this amendment, I proposed that the deadline of three months, which is the deadline for the government's adoption, which makes decisions and regulations as sublegal acts, be reduced to 60 days, means, to two months. If we take into account the suitability and suitability of the deadlines set out in this same draft law, let us say, in Article 34(1), where it is provided that the application for the issuing of a travel document is to be declared within 30 days, or possibly in item 2, and in paragraph 3 - exclusively of these provisions, when it comes to urgency, the competent authority is obliged to react even within 48 hours, we in the SRS consider that the deadline of 60 days is sufficient for the Government, in the form of a sublegal act, decision or regulation, to regulate certain questions, which is empowered by the provisions of this bill. However, as provided for in Article 55(2), it reads: "Until the application of the sublaws laid down in Article 1 of this Article, the rules will apply until the date of entry into force of this law, if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law. "This, in my opinion, is worrying and I am sorry that Mr. Jocic is not there, but there is a representative of the government, as far as I heard, Mr. Todorovic. Article 9 and Article 10 of the Regulation regulates the issue of diplomatic passports, official passports, which are related to the performance of state functions In this regard, and relating to Article 55(2), that sublegal acts will only be applied if they are not contrary to this law, I will give you an example that the Council of Ministers' decision, published in 2003 in Official Journal No. 37/244, determined that lifelong diplomatic passports have the following gentlemen: Zoran Zivkovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Micic, Goran Svilanovic, Milo Djukanovic, does not matter, he is in Montenegro, he must not travel outside Montenegro anyway, because he will be arrested for cigarette smuggling, bribes the judiciary, certain people in Italy with 200,000 euros at a certain time, so there is no problem with him. Neither the Law on travel documents of 1996 nor this draft law provide for the possibility of exercising the right to a life-long diplomatic passport, since it is exclusively related to the performance of a state function and in certain other cases, not to read now from the bill. Since this regulation, the 2003 Underlaw Act of the Council of Ministers, is contrary to the then applicable law and now with this bill, please, as Ministry of the Interior, to act and to certain gentlemen who exercise the right, and I have cited their names, to the holding of a diplomatic passport, of course, do not deny those persons who have no grounds for having a diplomatic passport, such as Zoran Zivkovic... Natasa Micic is a folk MP, so while she has this high state office, of course she has the possibility of having a diplomatic passport. But there are those who exercise that right, especially Goran Svilanovic, if we don't count on his membership in the International Crisis Group, which is working to break up former SFRJ, SRJ, now Serbia, where it is publicly seeking to kidnap and separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. It is absolutely unwarranted that such a Serbian citizen has a diplomatic passport at all, let alone a lifelong diplomatic passport. I urge you from the Ministry of the Interior to react, because it is not just unwarranted cases of possession of a diplomatic passport, but of the anti-candidity conduct of a diplomatic passport for the rest of your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6417	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6418	My fellow Members, for the sake of the public, within this eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had three laws regarding the Ministry of the Interior. In the framework of the Proposal for a Law on travel documents, on behalf of the SRS, I submit an amendment relating to Article 57. In order to amend the time limit for the application of this law, we believe that if the law enters into force on the eighth day since its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" there is no reasonable reason for it to begin only after six months of entry into force. The Serbian Radical Party believes that three months is enough for the application of this law to begin, because during this six-month period it is made clear to the public that this law is not so important at all, which is why we are arguing, but that is why it takes place in the assembly procedure and in our debate, and we were able to talk about other things in this time, which we really need to talk about here. Perhaps the interior minister would say at this point that it is a procedure and a time for which they cannot implement this law, but they need at least six months. But I wonder, as a representative of the SRS, could that be the reason if it were just the Ministry of the Interior, which in itself should represent responsibility or expeditionivity. What is most important for the citizens of Serbia, please, you must agree with me that the Ministry of Interior should primarily provide security for the citizens. This time we have no security in our country of residence. It's the most important thing. Now all this is losing a little bit of importance by not being a minister, so this discussion on this issue will continue. For these reasons, the SRS considers that there is no point in refusing this amendment, because then the Ministry of the Interior would lose sight of citizens when it comes to expeditionivity, speed, responsibility and all that characterizes such a ministry in which we as citizens must trust. Let me cut the whole story short, just ask parliament and representatives of the ruling coalition. First, we must be aware that we are living in an unconstitutional state, and thus legally unregulated, and when it is legally unconstitutional and unconstitutional, it is also insecure for all the citizens who live in it. We have to agree on that that's the case. Then why does an emergency procedure pass the law, it's not just about this law, and then their application is delayed by six months? That's one question. What do the laws already passed if there is no possibility of checking their constitutionality? Why did parliament disobey the provisions of the Constitutional Law and first form the Constitutional Court? Of all things, the logical question is why the Constitution serves as the highest legal act of a state, with the conclusion that you are calling (referring to the ruling coalition) on the Constitution when it is in your interest. One more thing for the public, it should be concluded by the Home Secretary's statement, he had to answer us who is, in fact, the legalist, whether the ruling coalition, is the SRS as an opposition?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-20-0.u6419	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the draft travel documents law, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Eight amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events remain, as regards the very consideration of the details. I ask all MPs to attend the session. The session continues on Monday 24 September, at 10 pm. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by a 12-nation MP. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Milena Stankovic, Riza Halimi and Rajko Baralic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports (Specialities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the Bill: Nikola Vukelić, Vlado Sekulić, Slavisa Topalović, Radoslav Jevremović, Nebojsa Stefanović, Petar Jojic, Sreto Perić and Bozidar Koprivica, as well as amendments that are based on Article 140 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Defence and Security on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Vukelic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Nikola Vukelic.
