ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 153 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. There is no notice of the prevention of the MPs from attending the session. I would also like to inform you that the DS parliamentary group has appointed MP Marko Djurisic as deputy parliamentary group. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia For this item of the agenda, you have made proposals on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by parliamentary groups: LDP, DSS-Nov Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, with correction, G17 plus and the SRS. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although this is not the point of discussion, I just want to warn you that the SRS will insist on one principle, which I am not sure you will apply here, or there is already obvious evidence that you are not ready to maintain any principle here, and therefore I am telling you now – the request of your ministers to mostly be presidents of the assembly committees from which the ministers are immoral and corrupt. The MPs of the SRS will not participate at all in the work of the committee, which the chairman is a member of the party from which the minister, whose work is to be followed by the committee. And you think carefully about what this is all about. Why certain ministers insist, and you must accept it in order to be held by the Government, to be followed by assembly committees to be led by an MP from their ranks. Or perhaps you think the MP, president of the Assembly Committee, will be able to control the minister who is his party president. Please reconsider, we are not going back to 2001. We will not participate in the work of a committee whose session is convened by a member of the party given by the minister whose work the committee should follow. Just think about it one more time, we do not insist that you comply with the principles, that the citizens of Serbia will say their word, but we will insist on this, and you however you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2272	Thank you very much. Do any of the MPs want a word? National MP Slobodan Gavrilović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2273	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Nikolic's remarks can also be observed in principle, but then it must be seen in a series that involves not just one assembly meeting. What's this about? Whether the ruling majority is made up of one or five parties that is completely irrelevant to those who are in opposition, they are making their contract to determine how they will work. I have an understanding and I wish that the coalition could have established a different relationship, but it's a question of the ruling coalition, it's not even a question of this home in this regard. Here's an example, let's say, when the SPS had most and the radicals said: tomorrow we will win full power – how will they have control over that part of the board that belongs to them and part of the opposition. Then he must be the chairman of the committee from that party as well as the minister. It is not a guarantee of control only that someone from another party, the guarantee of control is what is the constitutional right of every MP, regardless of whether he is a member of the opposition or a ruling majority, to exercise control over the executive authority. Whether it will be better done by the opposition or by the position is a question that can only be determined after one term. It is always more reasonable and logical that the opposition will insist more on certain things, but I have laid out a principle by which it is not possible to change the principle from one call to another. The principle must apply to both this assembly and the assembly when there will be only one party in power. So what do we do? So are we going to say that there's no right for one who has the majority to have any chairman of the board, because, for God's sake, there's a minister at 10, 20, in all the halls. That's not a principle, then. This is a whim in which space is sought for what is supposed to be explained by some principle. The principle implies that it can be respected and that when most of the ruling parties make up two, three, five parties or only one party. If that principle isn't enough for both cases, then it's not a principle, it's a requirement, then it's a political will. I can respect the political will, but I don't want it to be declared a principle. The principle implies that he can apply at any time, in any situation. This is not the case with this principle, and for me it is unacceptable for the opposition to regulate relations in the ruling coalition. She may be dissatisfied with them and may express her dissatisfaction in various ways, but she cannot say that we within the ruling coalition will organise ourselves. Again, I stress, I wish there was a different agreement with us, but it is, so we will respect it, and it must be respected by the opposition if he wants to see us as partners, not always looking for only reasons for a certain kind of apology, for not participating in serious business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2274	Thank you very much. Replica, Tomislav Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2275	First, I've never been a surgical man, and now I'm at age when I can't even get over it. I don't want to arrange relationships in your coalition. I'm just warning the public that these relationships aren't arranged, that you yourselves can't let each other out of control. Of course the time will come, after the next elections, when one party will lead Serbia. And I promise you now, if you are in the Assembly, take over all the committees. We'd be happy to leave all committees to the opposition. On those boards, we'll have a majority. So, the committees will vote on what the government wants, but we don't want to discriminate on you so we don't call your sessions. This is about calling the sessions and putting the agenda on the table, that's all it's about. I don't understand why the New Serbia minister doesn't trust the president of some board to be from the DS. I have no idea what kind of coalition it is if he has to insist that the chairman of the board be from his party: if Mladjan Dinkic insists that the chairman of the Committee who follows him be from G17 plus, that the chairman of the Health Committee, whose minister is from G17 plus, be required from G17 plus, that the foreign minister is accompanied by the chairman of the DS Committee. What kind of principle is that? I will not, nor can I arrange relations between you. I'm just saying what would be moral, and you're aware of that yourself when you say you'd like it done differently. What would you like? What would you like if this was a normal thing? You'd like a normal thing. It's a normal thing for a minister to get under control. And control cannot be done by the chairman of the board from his party. He can't! How can you not suspect that? That must be suspicious. It's the basis for corruption, bribery, crime, immorality, everything. This is a sign that the Assembly serves the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this end serves ministers, not the Government, ministers individually. You act like it's normal, keep working. The work on the committees is not important at all, as much as you represent it to the public of Serbia. In the end, everything here is cleared up and discussed. The work on committees has been a cover for power since 2001. We will work on committees to make it important, not even have to be a congregation debate, everything on boards will be discussed. You do whatever you want on these committees, we're waiting for you in the Assembly. But I'm just telling you one thing - you're going to be bitching among yourselves when you see what it means, especially with small political parties of the coalition that insisted that the board presidents be of their turn. You will see what it means when you, as the greatest, cannot lead the Serbian government, but each, there, the minister will lead it individually, because Serbia is the biggest battle to win 5%, not 30%. In Serbia, parties are struggling to win 5% so they can rule Serbia and prevent those who conquer 30% to rule Serbia. I'm not blackmailing you, the boards have a majority, the boards will be able to work, I'm just saying, if you don't respect the opposition, don't expect the opposition to respect you. In particular, don't speak from this pay phone about how you're going to follow those rules, so the opposition will have to. The opposition doesn't have to do anything. The opposition really doesn't have to do anything. You'll see it doesn't have to. And right now I am telling you, we will not participate in the work of the party committees, only of the congregation. What you have on party authorities to clean up, clean up in the rooms of the party, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Assembly committees cannot look like party meetings, but exclusively at the work of MPs. So you push yours, we'll make ours, there'll be more choices this year, some you won't be able to avoid even though you want to, we're waiting for you, and ours is to warn the citizens of Serbia that we imagine that democracy. It is our job to warn the citizens of Serbia, the dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic, had a Rules of Procedure that you have changed five times so far and each time made it worse by the MPs, not by the MPs of the opposition or the authorities, by the MPs. Since you came to power in 2001, since 5 October 2000, the MP represents nothing. You prove it in this conference, too. Now, what some of you don't think like you do, so maybe they'll join these attitudes, it's just a sign that something very, very stingy with you. I'm neither threatening you nor meddling in your relationship, I've been looking forward to this coalition being made; that these Kostunicas finally come into your house and that Serbia doesn't say any more – you can do it with each other. You have now come together which you can, and mine is just to show how you actually think you rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2276	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has come to the floor, please. I would like to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held at the blue salon at 10:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered the line to Mr. Nikolic, because I am one of the presidents of the Education Committee, where he is also the minister of my party. Let me tell you right now, I don't care what party the minister of education comes from. In exactly the same way, I'm going to run a committee of anyone who's a minister. In doing so, no one has asked, and Minister Loncar at least to be me or the DSS president of the Educational Committee. That's what I've been doing, because I've been working for over 30 years in education. In principle, I think our habit of all being able to do anything, it's just not good, it wouldn't have occurred to me to run some Health Committee I don't know about. So, Mr. Nikolic, I'm not the chairman of this committee to allow the Minister's marifettes, corruption stories and everything else you've said, and I don't want to talk about it this way. For me, personally, it doesn't matter whether from any party there is an existing minister of education coalition, I would do exactly the same thing, and I believe a large number of those who have accepted to be board presidents that will do so, including the board presidents who come from your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2278	Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2279	I really didn't mean you, but when you're so honest, tell me if you asked the Minister of Education for lying about where Mr. Tolimir was arrested. Yes, it is. Let's take a closer look at it. How will our children be raised in schools if the Minister of Education lies!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2280	Thank you. Replica, MP Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2281	To make some things clear to the end, it is not the exact claim made here by Tomislav Nikolic that we as a majority have a majority, as they will have tomorrow on all committees. In most committees, unfortunately, I don't know how, and I draw attention to that and to the President of the Assembly and the others, that it's completely inconceivable for me, that in most committees, the ruling majority doesn't have a majority. The Committee on Culture is one of those committees. The Foreign Affairs Committee is one of those committees and so on. It's simple math. Look, in 11 committees, the ruling majority doesn't have a majority. It's not mathematical and logically correct. In that case, I would understand the opposition's anxiety if one of the board presidents were to abuse that right so as not to call a board session, then I would understand that someone is leaving the session, and until such a reason is made, then I see no reason to be threatened in advance. That's one argument. The other is related to what constitutes the essence of the Committee's work. The board president, especially on committees where he doesn't have a majority, can't make any decisions without the majority. So the agenda can't even be determined without most. But let the boards start working, and then let's see if they're doing what they should or shouldn't do. The suspicion, which develops here and the Priory, does not contribute to repairing the relationship, which Mr. Dulic spoke of inaugural speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2282	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavko Jerkovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking for a notice from the ruling coalition, and there are people present, as far as I can see, who can sort of answer to satisfy the citizens of the Grmovci who, on the other day in the municipality of Zemun, are sleeping and sitting on the stairs. That's what interferes with the work of the municipal administration. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the inhabitants of the Grmovac, at least their representatives, were mostly at the City Secretariat for Urbanism and Construction. Imagine the answer they got, for the most important thing in life, that they have the electricity with which they've been cougars for many years – go to the radicals, let them regulate it for you. Go to Zemun Community and don't move from there. That's what the chief, Mr. Nenad Komatina, said. He belongs to the DSS. I guess he'll hear this and see Mr. Aligrudic too, so I'd ask him to turn the phone and tell his chief that Serbian citizens are not allowed to share in their rights. In this way, political points must not be made. We can't take citizens of Serbia in the Zemun Municipality by political membership, by color, by religion or by what else. We should represent the service of the citizens. We finally need to realize that we are all here on behalf of the citizens, and that we need to do everything possible to make their rights come true. I know very well that you are full of integration, of the European Union and everything else, but you will never see the EU. Perhaps the hundreds of you from the ruling coalition will leave with a one-way ticket, but until then, it is that Mr. Bogdanovic is ill... (President: Time. ) Here I am, finishing up, but there is his deputy who has promised that the problem of the Grmovac will be resolved very quickly. The municipality of Zemun has done everything on its part and has reached its conclusion on June 4th this year that it is ready to defile all owners of certain parcels, in other words, fields, where a power line should be set up. The city government isn't asked for a single dollar. The inhabitants of the Bolsheviks themselves provided the funds, and only the paraphrases, or signatures, are left, the only consent that Komatatina needs to sign, to finally see the light of day for the citizens of the Bolsheviks to have electricity. The shrub is only 20km from Belgrade. Do everything for the citizens of Serbia, and then look at the direction of integration, go wherever you want, but without us, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2284	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2285	Article 104. Dear colleagues, I must give you a very ugly, unsettled thing to say. These days, we need to agree on who our members of the delegations are who participate in the work of various external conventions, committees and the like. One of these delegations was scheduled to attend a meeting of the World Orthodox Assembly or the Union of Orthodoxy, as it is still called. However, our great Democrats, a man who is full of the mouth of democracy, who is more important to fight for democracy than to belong to his party, and thus the struggle for the views of his party, at least so declared and tried to create such an image in this people, but, for some 15 years, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, whom I have respected to this day, I must say, has, willingly, as president of the Foreign Political Committee, decided not to send my delegation to Kazakhstan for the meeting of this Orthodox Assembly this year, June 19th. This may sound like a minor organization to someone, but she really isn't. It took Mr. Micunovic a little bit to inform himself, before making such a decision on his own. Namely, we Serbian MPs and in the past assembly, the former, unfortunately, destroyed Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, fought a great fight in this assemble. Here we had, thank God, the support of our Russian brothers, especially from the political party – our home Russia, which belongs to President Putin. And only thanks to them have we managed every time so far to fight for Serbian justice, for the truth that is happening to us. I will warn you of an important event – this is the 17th March that happened to us in Kosovo. Immediately after that unfortunate 17 March, we had a meeting of this assemble, where Orthodox MPs from Albania tried to push through a declaration in which we Serbs were blamed for what happened on 17 March. Of course, that didn't work, I repeat, with the help of our Russian brothers from our home Russia party. That declaration never saw the light of day. I find it inadmissible, even impossible, in a democracy that, truthfully, is not as mature as ours, that such a thing is happening, that a man, on his own, stops a co-operation that is very successful, with great pains, developing with all other Orthodox MPs, and I will remind you that even from Australia, Kazakhstan... (President: Time, Mr. Michaelovich. I'll be done soon. If that is, Mr. Micunovic, that democracy that you stand for, then I'm really not a Democrats.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2286	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2287	Article 225, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, when the refugee river from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska started in 1996, many of them stayed in Zemun because they knew that they were Serbian radical in power in Zemun and would help them. You sent them from the reception center to the reception center, from the sports hall to the sports hall. Today, throughout Serbia, they live in acceptable centres. We formed several settlements on the territory of the Zemun Municipality. One of the most problematic, for you the most problematic settlements, is the village of Grmovac. Eleven years, 15km from this assembly hall, Serbian citizens live in the worst conditions, without water, without electricity. In this regard, to inform the citizens of Serbia, we are the water, the Zemun municipality has brought water to the settlement, 26 trafo stations and complete infrastructure, the complete material has been prepared. Where the material is now, you should ask those who ruled the Zemun Municipality from 2000 to 2003. Today, thanks to the will of an official in the City Assembly, these people can't get electricity even though they paid and gave the last cent for both the gangers and the transfo stations and the network, and everything's done, stretched, to sign that gentleman and to let people go. As far as you think, I'm asking you DSS gentlemen, since this secretary of yours, how long do you think you're harassing the citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade? And one more thing, Mr. President, at the last meeting I asked a few parliamentary questions, and your vice president, who seems to have interpreted only the cover of the Rules of Procedure, still hasn't arrived, told me I had no right. Since you understand yourself in the Rules of Procedure, I am taking the opportunity to repeat these parliamentary questions. On October 20th 2006, from Office 708, the Privatisation Agency disappeared a laptop containing all EPS data, NIS and Bor. A month later from office 712, a laptop was also missing, which contained remains of data for EPS and NIS, so I ask – are you preparing privatisation, the "burazer" privatisation for these three companies? Who needed that information from those who would participate in the tender? I ask you further – is it true that two million euros have disappeared from the Privatisation Agency and that they have therefore resigned: Caslav Petrovic, Executive Director, Vladimir Galić, Director General, Aleksandar Pravica, Director of the tender, Zeljko Matijević, Director of the Centre for Auctions and Goran Obradović, Director of the Centre for Control? Next, I ask - is it true that in the adaptation of space in the stone building, across from the building of the Assembly, 160 million dinars were spent for adaptation only? I also asked a vice president who is best understood in the building to tell me how many new squares of the building could have been made for these 160 million? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Ali-baba and 40 experts are bringing privatisation to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2288	Thank you very much. Do you want to forward this as a parliamentary matter to the departments in charge? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Nada Kolundžija, appeared, but she is not there, so the word is Mr Gojko Radic, then the MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2289	I'm advertising members 120 and 226. I owe one apology to the citizens of Subotica, since I last presented the information that Mr. Chacanj has not yet been able to buy the Chamber of Commerce in Subotica, and I was wrong, here he has already entered the basement rooms and his are. So he's taken the foundation and even as the little building collapses, so it becomes less valuable, then he's gonna buy this object and he's gonna have his own street. I don't know what time we're back. At one time, the citizens of Saturday bought their city from the authorities to be citizens of Subotica, and today the government in Subotica is the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. That same town is sold to one man, and he, he just becomes dominant, becomes the owner of the whole town. In Belgrade, the existing structures are silent and all amenable. We in the SRS don't surprise it, but here's for the Serbian public to know, it's no wonder, when Ministers Vojislav Kostunica don't leave the Hunting House on Mac's week, known for the Subotics, according to the Kelebija border, have dinner and socializing. Then it's clear to us that these arrangements are being made and that the places that are of great value are leaving for the collapsed buildings. Here's just one piece of information that can't be silenced by either the D.A., or the government, or the Privatisation Agency. When "Minerva" was privatized in Subotica then the documentation went to the Agency for "Minerva" to have a capacity of 1900 and some squares. When Mr. Chacanj arranged a replacement space with the municipality of Subotica, then "Minerva" suddenly has a business space of 2600 and some squares. We know that in 2004, she was privatized, that she had not worked, had not functioned, had not been renewed, had not expanded her business space, we know that in 2005, "Minerva" had a total turnover of 21,000 dinars – where they were employed, where salaries were employed and how she fulfilled the obligations towards the Privatisation Agency. It's obvious it's a crime and it's a robbery. I call here again the President of the Assembly, as he comes from Subotica from the DS, and I call on the Vice President of Subotica Municipality, there he is, sitting in the benches as a MP, to say whether these are fictional data and to raise his voice. I read in the paper the president of the DS in Subotica is advocating and says he needs to be reconsidered. So we all at Subotica know that that's what they should go to jail for, there's nothing to question, and all the participants in this affair should go to jail. There's nothing to question. It's not yeast, so you mix the bread and then it grows. How come this building is Minerve, it's collapsing, and it's growing, it's got extra squares. Gentlemen of the DS, Mr. President, you have to worry and you have to go out for this pay phone, ask to be brought to court, to find out who the perpetrators are, and who the organizers of this action, these robberies of state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2290	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2291	You can't go through things like this. He can't keep his mouth shut about this, and you DS can't get over this easily. In Subotica, 206 sites were deleted by 2003, which was mostly the property of the Republic of Serbia. We can't keep quiet about it anymore, we can't. It wouldn't be a problem if they were individuals, someone who needed to survive and hire, but everything was simply directed and everything went into one person's hands. We'll have a master over Saturday, one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2292	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic and then MP Jovan Damjanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I would like to inform the Serbian Parliament and citizens that a new crime is being committed in The Hague, that Republika Srpska President Milan Martic has been sentenced to 35 years in prison. The second president of the Republika Srpska Krajina, was killed or killed, because he was forced to falsely testify and probably under pressure he could no longer endure. And Milan Martić was sentenced to 35 years! He was convicted because he tried at least a little to defend the Serb enemy. I remind you that after action "Blash" and "Storm" on Europe's territories after World War II, the greatest ethnic cleansing was carried out, that over 500,000 Serbs were expelled! Those who have tried, at least a little, to defend their people are sentenced to life sentences or 35 years in The Hague. I understand why you're throwing it away. Because you, because the institution serves against the Serbs, and arrested Zdravko Tolimir here in Bezanija and transferred him to Republika Srpska and transferred him from Republika Srpska to The Hague. You are the means of the UN tribunal, the means of America, the West, which it is trying to definitely destroy the Serbian people and destroy Serbia. Look, from all Serbian countries, Republika Srpska Krajina is fully military, police and political leadership located in The Hague tribunal. And what justice is there for Serbs compared to other participants in the collapse of the former SFRY. The ratio is about 90% of Serbs and 10% of others. You had the opportunity to hear how many witnesses only here in Serbia the Hague prosecutor's office tried to bribe and blackmail to falsely testify in the process of Dr Vojislav Seselj. You believe in The Hague tribunal, and Dr Vojislav Seselj has been in the tribunal for five years without the trial beginning. You believe because you were brought here to carry out all the orders of those who formed The Hague tribunal. Because they're interested in the UN tribunal to cover up their crimes. You don't ask a question for the crimes that were committed in 1999, you abolized them, even though they were sentenced here in front of our court, you immediately freed them. Why, if they're not guilty? Why did you have to commit that act? Today, one of those who conducts a crime against Serbs publicly announces that Kosovo and Metohija will be donated to Albanians, and you continue to accept all this on your knees with gratitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2294	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2295	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. Every MP has the right to inform and explain. We heard here on Friday that Dr. Rajko Djuric, who mentioned and warned about Mr. Ljuan Koka doing various great manipulations: and trade in living people, that he was making passports, that he took big money. It says it was all done, but we ask Mr. Rajko Djuric - who supported this in this country? Ljuan Koka couldn't do all that alone if he didn't have the support of individuals in the institutions of the system. As far as morals, ethics, respect and corruption are concerned, I think he has the least right to speak. They all talk about corruption, they need to be arrested, they need this, they need that, but we're not talking about some issues that are very important in our country. I will remind you, the Decade of Roma has been signed by eight Southeast European states, and on behalf of our country, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister of the Serbian government, signed. Exactly, the Decade of Roma consists of: education, eradication of poverty, housing and health. I appeal to this assembly and to Mr. President of the Assembly, it is possible that a lapus was made, to form a Assembly board for the Decada of Roma in our country. Why am I saying that? We know that in the National Council, there were really great manipulations, corruption, bribes to be answered for. But these people were left to themselves, they had no control, someone knew it in the state. We have a record of a major crime being committed in the National Council, which is not an affirmation of either our state or our people, and especially Roma, which expected much from the National Council. The National Council is a body that coordinates with the state. If it's a body that co-ordinates with the state and makes major crimes and corruption, it's terrible. That is why I urge that the Decade Assembly Committee be formed, so that it can be controlled and that the Decada be implemented in those directions, in the interests of the citizens, for which it has already been voted and signed. One more thing, I'd like to ask and appeal here in the Assembly. The citizens of Grmovac are citizens of Serbia. The citizens of the Greeks are not citizens of the Serbian Radical Party, but of this country where we all live together. I appeal for consciousness, I appeal for humanity, to enable these citizens, as well as other citizens in our country, to get electricity and all that they need to live as normal citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2296	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Nemanja Sarovic. MPs are informed that the 3rd session of the Committee on Culture and Information will be held today, at 11.00 p.m., in the blue salon. I ask all Members of the Committee to attend the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 226, so not to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because there is nothing to advertise, but to request, in accordance with this article, a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic. What's this about? Two days ago, as we had the opportunity to learn in the media, it was held at Vrsca Election Assembly of the District Committee of the Democratic Party. There, of course, was Mr. Dulic, and there was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and addressed those present. Oliver Dulic, now to quote, explained that "As we are the Dukes on temporary work in Belgrade, we are trying to help Belgrade and Serbia, to show how we operate, how we talk to each other, to show that it is not a shame to be nice and cultural, that when a man is nice, it does not mean he is weak, and that the power in culture and that it is the message that we carry from Vojvodina." After this, after reading this, I really had nothing to say but shame on you, Mr. Dulic! Who are you to come to Belgrade and teach this lesson to the citizens of Belgrade? Can citizens, voters, and I remind you that there are a quarter of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Belgrade, so almost two million people, but that you from Vrsac will end up reading them lessons about fineness, culture and good behavior? I really don't think there's a man in Belgrade who won't find this offensive. It would be good to declare MPs and other parties, both the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party, but on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, on behalf of nearly 90,000 members of the SRS in Belgrade, and 270,000 voters, who are not even uncultural, who are not intolerant, who know that they are talking and who know that this is not an embarrassment, I ask you, at the very least, an apology. I really hope that you will not, as you do this time, just go over what the MPs of the people, when they report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, make excuses, but that, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, you will really give an explanation of whether these are, although it is not disputed that these are your words, because it is a quote, whether you will repent and make an apology to all the citizens of Belgrade and all the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2298	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slavisa Topalovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2299	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, just to remind you, the village of Grmovac near Belgrade, more precisely about 20km from the city center, with 700 built residential buildings and 2,000 citizens and children living in the settlement, for more than 11 years, have no electricity. The citizens themselves organized and funded the power grid. Some of them also raised loans to participate, but authorities do not allow them to join. The joint forces of the municipality bodies of the municipality of Zemun and the citizens of Grmovac who, I repeat, have been without electricity in their households for more than eleven years, have reached so far, after so much time, the City Assembly, more specifically, Mrs Radmila Hrustanovic, has made it a condition to obtain consent over which a plot of eight meters is crossing cable or wire. In the next two days, appropriate consent and all necessary documents have been obtained, but something still doesn't fit. Regardless of every time there's a new reason to stop it, we're trying together with the citizens and we're getting it, but there's still no connection of electricity. Mr Nenad Komatina of the City Secretariat for Urbanism, more specifically the Chief, is responsible because his signature is missing at the approval or consent with which electricity can be connected. Yesterday, when the citizen delegation was with Mr. Nenad Komatine, he said they were going to the radicals; they had houses built there, and you voted for them. What does that mean? You voted for them? So, we're going to look at citizens who are who they vote for or to whom the political option suits, so we're going to provide them with basic living conditions. To remind Mr Nenada Komatin: In the village of Grmovac, since not everyone is registered at the address, because people cannot survive over the whole year there without electricity, they live privately everywhere, and even in Belgrade, more specifically, only 70 have the right to vote and 70 voted for the SRS. Mr Komatina, because of the 70 votes that the citizens of Grmovac gave to the Serbian Radical Foreigner, you are making it impossible to connect electricity to 700 residential buildings and 2,000 inhabitants along with their small children. In those words, there is a man who can stop the agony of the citizens of the shrubs and deal with it positively...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2300	Mr. Topalovic!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2301	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2302	Please, it's time. Three minutes and 23 seconds, you're already reading that text. I'd only ask you to hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2303	I would only ask you to let me finish, because this is information for all citizens of Serbia. Don't take part in what Mr. Komatina and the DSS are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, Nenad Komatin of the Democratic Party of Serbia, when Vojislav Kostunica, prevents the citizens of the Grmovac, and about 2,000 of them together with children, from having basic conditions for life, which is to gain electricity. Mr. Komataina, turn off your power for 11 days and let's see how you can handle it. It's only 11 days! And imagine 11 years without electricity! Mr. Komataina, do you know how many children there are in this neighborhood? You don't allow them, I repeat, basic conditions for life. Your signature makes it impossible. What's the background of it all? Is the main problem with some commission, perhaps with you at the Department of Urbanism? It is known that in your case for ordinary urban conditions for any object is waiting up to six months or more, and if a little honor gets them within a very short and reasonable time, and even that deadline...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2304	Mr Topalovic, indeed, you had three minutes, we entered in the fifth minute. Please step down from the pay phone now, and report back to that, but we cannot allow a full speech five minutes after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have called on a member of 103 who says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue that is on the agenda." You've advertised the breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 103, and I've allowed you to speak, but you've gone too far now because you've crossed the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2305	The Rules of Procedure also states that the speaker must not be thrown away while he is behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2306	All right, leave the pay phone now and report to the Rules of Procedure later, and you'll report it. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, or by the Rules of Procedure, and then by the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2307	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting on Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I must return to the village of Grmovac, since my countrymen from Republika Srpska are in that village. In this case, it is exclusively a political decision by the Belgrade city's powerful authorities, as well as by the republican authorities, which do not allow access to infrastructure facilities. In this case it is the Grmovac municipality of Zemun, a similar situation in the municipality of Novi Sad. We have the same problems in Novi Sad with public enterprises, first of all, electricity companies, which do not allow public utility and other systems. Speaking of exiles from Republika Srpska, we must say that they are expelled by the war crimes of genocide and ethnic cleansing, and that more than 500,000 Serbs and 300,000 Serbs who ended up in Republika Srpska and other countries have been expelled to the premises of the Republic of Serbia. The war crimes committed on Serbs killed 7,000 Serbs. I ask you, who cares about families, about the children of those Serbs who died in Republika Srpska? Fifty thousand social-owned apartments remain for Serbs. No social-owned apartment has been returned to the Serbs so far. In addition, we must say that ethnic cleansing has cleared 1,100 villages and villages. So it's a crime. What you are doing in the municipality of Zemun, specifically in Grmovac, and in other settlements is the continuation of this crime of genocide and ethnic cleansing. The Serbian Radical Party, which has done everything to help the refugee and exiled population, will continue to do so. We will not allow the genocide of Serbs from Republika Srpska to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2308	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Verica Radet, and the People's Messenger Bojan Aleksic, appeared. Now they tell me you're mad at it, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2309	It's not about whether I'm angry or not, Mr. Dulic, but I'm a MP by the Constitution, according to the Rules of Procedure, according to the Serbian dictionary. So there is no reason to be angry or not angry, I am the People's MP of the Republic of Serbia, and you have violated members 27, 104, 100, 225, 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's really amazing. First, as far as Article 100 is concerned. You're breaking it permanently in the third position. Mr. Dulic, I thought those first days that you were still out of line because you publicly said you didn't know the Rules of Procedure, but now I believe you're doing it consciously and maliciously. You are under obligation, Mr. Dulic, to give notice to the MP after every violation of the Rules of Procedure's violation. That's what you're up to. Look, let the Secretary show you Article 100(3). Article 225, 226. – which several Serbian Radical Party MPs have mentioned here for a concrete reason, which refers to the fact that the citizens of Grmjevac have no electricity, strike hunger, that the city authorities and the Elektro-distribution do not want to join them, that they have given them money, that these money has been stolen, obliges you, Mr Dulic, to interrupt this session, to get the right information and to inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia about what it is and what the real situation with electricity in the village of Grmovac. You have violated Article 27 of the first position, which at point 1, Mr. Dulic obliges you to do the work provided for in the Constitution, and directly with that, you have violated Article 104 where you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. You didn't answer, Mr. Dulic, and by two o'clock last night I watched all the news on all the TVs, I thought maybe at some point you'd come by and explain to the Serbian citizens that Mladjan Dinkic could say that there would be no proposal on the agenda of this parliament to elect the governor of the National Bank, that this job would continue to work on Jelasic until some term, I don't know, another year until his term of office. So, Mr. Dulic, I see that three minutes have passed, but given that I have mentioned many members of the Rules of Procedure, I expect you to explain to us whether you or Mladjan Dinkic are leading this Parliament, and whether you as Parliament President have the awareness that it was necessary for you to publicly tell Mladjan Dinkic that Parliament will respect Article 5. Constitutional law. But I see you have no intention of doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2310	Thank you. I'll give you an answer, of course, Mrs. Radeta. As for the response to complaints on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, most objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure are information that I sign on a daily basis in terms of parliamentary issues that go to the relevant ministries. You'll certainly answer those questions to get it. You will admit yourself that most objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure are not in the form of violations of the Rules of Procedure, but is much more in the form of issues. As for information related to the statement by Mladjan Dinkic, the Constitutional Law of Article 5 makes it very clear and clearly defines the next items of the sitting agenda. As you have seen, we have so far had all those points defined by the Constitution and the law and it is certain that there will be a point on the agenda. It's just the position of one of the presidents of political parties. I am not obliged to comment on the views of the president of political parties. As for all other matters, I am also obliged to answer Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. So it is true that it is my statement, as it is true that it is part of a debate that we have had, where there has just been an observation that I am too kind and cultural in relation to certain MPs who may not behave that way. I just wanted to say being nice and cultural is not a sign of weakness. I'll keep being like that, and I didn't mean to offend and hurt anyone. I wish the way we communicate would be much higher, although I believe that so far the way of communication that exists between us is at a very decent level, I thank you. Thank you for your remarks. I mean, I didn't want to insult the citizens of Belgrade or Serbia for one moment. Here, of course, you'll get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I've given you an answer to the question you asked me. I hope then that the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be on another subject. I will always answer when you comment on a breach of the Rules of Procedure regarding the specific way in which the session is conducted. Problem with point 100. The Rules of Procedure is that most MPs appear to be advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that they are indeed calling for points that I simply cannot give an answer to. What can I tell you when you advertise violation of Rule 225, that the MP has the right to be informed. I agree that the MP has the right to be informed. I am not guilty unless the MP is informed of a situation in Belgrade's suburbs about the power outage situation. I hope these citizens get electrocuted, and I have to tell you that I signed a parliamentary question several times that went to a certain ministry. That's it. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Alexic, please. Are you satisfied with the answer you got? I have to tell you about the pay phone. You can tell me like this. If you are not satisfied, in the day of voting, we will vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word right after Mrs. Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2311	I refer to the violations of the Rules of Procedure which were called upon and all colleagues from the SRS who mentioned the problem of the citizens of Grmovac. On behalf of the DSS and someone in charge of the city of Belgrade, I asked the Secretariat what it was about, so that I could inform the citizens of the Grmovac and the MPs of the SRS who are interested in the issue. In fact, the situation isn't as simple as it seems here. The municipality of Zemun shared with a number of citizens plots that had no infrastructure. In order to obtain that infrastructure, it is necessary that citizens through whose parcels that infrastructure should pass should give their consent. That's exactly what you're told in the Secretariat, that you need to obtain the consent of 10 families whose parcels need to cross these waters to get electricity. When you get that, the city will provide electricity for the citizens of the Thunderbolts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2312	Thank you very much. Replica, Ms. Veronica Radeta. Here you go. Mr. Sarovic, I will read to you in order of reporting: Zvonko Mihajlović, Nebojsa Stefanović, Nemanja Sarović, Slavisa Topalović, Momir Markovic. I have to respect the order. Your MPs are before you. All these MPs have come forward to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2313	I did not report for breach of the Rules of Procedure, but for one unusual way of communicating the President of Parliament with the MPs. I know that you've only given notice in accordance with Article 100(3), then I could only tell you if I'm satisfied or not satisfied with your answer. Mr. Dulic, you should've given some vice president a moment's notice to take charge of the session and you'd go out for a pay phone and say, as a folk ambassador, all that you said. You did not just say a concrete answer to the question, that is, a comment on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure that I was making. You cannot ask the People's Messenger if you are satisfied, so that I may nod or nod to you or tell you that I am or am not. As soon as it doesn't get into the record, because you can't hear it, because these girls who do their job right here can't hear if I throw you out of the bench. Parliament's president can't go with the MPs, but I once warned you that he was communicating as a neighbor across the board. I am not pleased, Mr. Dulic, with your answer and I ask that the National Assembly in voting day be made known about the violations of the Rules of Procedures which I have advertised and which are advertised by the MPs of the SRS. I'm saying this on behalf of all MPs, because that's our deal, because we know in advance that your answer won't be satisfactory, because you're actually avoiding giving an answer, and that's why you're avoiding using article 100 at all. If we make you do that, then tell me something that has nothing to do with what we asked you. Secondly, I would like you to tell us what function Mrs. Bojana Aleksic gave this statement earlier. That's what I'm asking because she told the truth. If she's the representative of some official body who, as he said, is responsible for that part, then I must say, that organ is not used in the truth. It is true that the citizens of the coat of arms meet all the conditions for electricity and that they paid for that electricity without getting it just because they voted for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2314	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bojana Aleksic has also advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Zvonko Mihajlovic, who also advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 225. I would like to inform the People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia of something that is well known to all of you, namely, the day before yesterday, on the 10th of June, the President of the United States George Bush came to visit Tirana. June 10th is the date of the end of NATO aggression. Are you wondering if this is a random date or if it has some kind of symbolism? It is approaching June 28th – Vidovdan, the day he was kidnapped, or kidnapped and delivered to The Hague by former President of the Republic of Serbia Slobodan Milosevic. I'm asking you, can we get hit by something like that on June 28th? In all European countries and countries in the world, wherever George Bush appears, he is awaited by disdain for citizens and protests. That wasn't the case in Albania. The unprecedented columns of a vehicle with the Shiptars from Kosovo and Metohija headed towards Tirana to welcome a man who promises them their decades-old dream, which is independent Kosovo and Metohija. That column started in Pristina. Although they had a shorter route towards the route of Pristina – Urosevic, via Dulje, Suve Reka and the entry into Albania, they chose a route that is longer, through Caglavica, Urosevic, Partizanski Puto, Strpc, Prevalc, Prizren and Albania, for the simple reason that Serbs live on this part of the road, to take the opportunity to demonstrate once again the force and provoke the remaining Serbs. Truth be told, I followed that column, and there were no more provocations, except for some Ship's flag, two fingers high high, no more provocations. Bush, from Tirana, told Shiptar separatists that the US had decided that Kosovo and Metohija would gain independence, that the job would come, and that it would take some time for them to convince the Russian side to accept independence. And if not, then they will say "stop," both Kosovo and Metohija will be independent. This can also be interpreted as between the lines, and as a message to the "Greater Albania" project to boost the allocations, including large-scale finance, for this project. Since visiting George Bush, the Serbs in Strpc have no mobile phone. So, since the day before yesterday, all phone networks have been cut off. In the end, I want to say that I am sorry to the citizens of Grmovac, because they have no electricity, because the cosmet Serbs understand the problem best, for the simple reason that we haven't had a regular supply of electricity in eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2316	The People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the MP has the right to ask questions to competent ministries, the Assembly and state bodies. The topic I want to talk about, which is very important for Serbia, is similar to what my colleague, Mr. Zvonko, who is from Strpco, is from the heart of Kosovo, and it is precisely about the announcements, he talked about details, and I want to talk about the essence of the president's statement, in this case the United States, George Bush, and any other country that makes a similar statement. The essence of that statement is that the United States will advocate that Serbs take 15% of its territory, kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. What's scariest in this case, we've been putting up with this kind of behavior for a long time, and we're not the kind of guy who's gonna say we're surprised. What surprises me is that for now, the only SRS has submitted a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, and in addition to a few media statements from the government, we did not have concrete action or concrete measures by the competent state authorities to oppose direct demands for Serbia to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. We and today have on the agenda laws that are not in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional law. I know this is of no interest to most MPs of the ruling coalition, who are now, however, not in the O.R., but I'm surprised there isn't, where the foreign ministry's reactions are. Why does the National Assembly not initiate a procedure for a joint resolution? We will have a resolution of the SRS, which, among other things, will oblige the competent state authorities to never accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence. But this is such an important thing that it has to be on the agenda. Serbia must fight for its territory and must not allow any politician, statesman of any country in the world, to trample both international law and the law of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on its territory, on integrity and to pass it without any reaction from state authorities. If they are afraid, let them resign, let them give power to Serbian radicals who will show them how they defend both Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, and how they are fighting for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2318	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then MP Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Of course, I will not give up pointing to these injuries, regardless of what Mr. Dulic left the assembly hall. They can only consider this a new injury, or violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2320	What are those members, Mr. Sarovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2321	Take it easy, Mr. Albian, have some patience. Well, mathematically, I'm going to name a few members. You pay attention now, I'm starting to quote, so you'll refuse me that time. Therefore, Article 104 of Position 1 was injured, which reads: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Article 2 of the same article says, "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." Item 3 reads: "No abusive expressions are allowed" etc. So, all this was done by Mr. Dulic. Article 100(1) has been injured, which says, "To the People's MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker." We are witnessing that Mrs Radeta has received the word for replica, as Mr Dulic said clearly, which, regardless of what it is about Mrs Radeta, she is not guilty of anything, Mr Dulic has injured this Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, Article 100, paragraph 3, says, "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." We are also witnessing that Mr Dulic did not give an explanation, although several SRS deputies were coming out to show him that there were certain violations. Article 100, paragraph 4, says: "If, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote." We, of course, have not received an explanation, and we have remained deprived of this business possibility that, if we are dissatisfied, we are eventually asking the Assembly to make a statement about it, and I am asking for that previous breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I am not satisfied with the explanation, to be declared by the National Assembly. Furthermore, Article 27 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly relating to the President of the National Assembly and which says: "The President of the National Assembly: – He is doing the work envisaged by the Constitution – he is chaired by the meetings of the National Assembly", and the third point of the position of the 1st and most important at the moment – "he is getting older on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2322	Mr. Sarovic, just one moment, to return your time, since you've quoted it so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2323	Thank you. So, Mr. Dulic not only did he not respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but he was the one who violated them the most. We also, when Mr Dulic was elected, expressed our suspicion, very well-founded, because we know how it was in previous councils, that this President of Parliament, or Mr Dulic, as he has been before, will be getting worse, that he will take away the rights of MPs and will literally go to the end of every debate and to the full devising of Parliament. What made me come forward for the first time, Mr. Dulic tried to change the context of what he said, but I am going to quote Mr. Dulic again because of the citizens who watch this transmission. Oliver Dulic explained this, he said, "As we are the dukes on temporary work in Belgrade, we are trying to help Belgrade and Serbia." The temporary work goes abroad, goes to Germany, Italy, France, America and Canada. Mr. Dulic is on temporary work in Serbia and on temporary work in Belgrade, and then tell us afterwards that it is not separatism. Furthermore, he says they are trying to help Belgrade and Serbia, so it is not about the Assembly, it is not about the lack of culture, fineness and tolerance in the Assembly, as Mr Dulic said, they will show how they function in Vojvodina, as we speak to each other, "to show that there is no shame in being nice, cultural and tolerance". And what kind of people are these, Mr. Dulic, who live in Belgrade and Serbia? Is that cattle, are we so rude, are we so primitive, are we so intolerant, and after centuries and centuries of existence of Belgrade, and Belgrade is long and cultural and economic centre, whatever else you want, we have waited for you to come to teach lessons to everyone individually, from two million people living in Belgrade. He further says, he will teach Belgrade and Serbia that if a man is nice, it does not mean that he is weak and that he is strong in culture. That's the message those of the Duke bring us. So, in Belgrade and Serbia, cattle are rude, primitive and who knows what kind of animals, so we had to wait for Oliver Dulic, I guess that's what Sonja Licht taught him well, so now he's here to teach everyone lessons. So this is extremely offensive to all citizens of Belgrade, to all citizens of Serbia, when I say Serbia, I mean both Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, we ask for an apology or resignation from Mr Oliver Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2324	Mr. Sarovic, you've advertised members of 104. 100th and 27th. Rules of Procedure. Article 104. "The dignity of the National Assembly, the address with respect, that no offensive expressions are used," I think both the President of the Assembly and my smallness, as well as all the MPs want to behave accordingly. Article 100. - Of course the President of the Assembly has provided an adequate explanation and I will always do so when possible. Sometimes it is not possible, because in that Article 225-226, there is no question, but there are findings, so I am not able to pass on that question, if it is not a question. I, Article 27. - that you used to quote again the words of the President of the National Assembly, in which, indeed, some of the words you have expressed as findings are not appropriate for the President of the National Assembly. No, no, I don't mean the words you said, Mr. Sarovic, for the president. The president of the assembly explained his quote and said it was in line with the topic that was at the conference at the time. Therefore, it is not even good to talk about the citizens of Belgrade, I really ask that we do not. Are you, Mr. Sarovic, satisfied with the explanation and accept that there is no vote on this, because you were not particularly... Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before Mr. Sarovic is entitled to a replica, I just want to point out to you something that is happening today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and submitted a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Meanwhile, Vojislav Kostunica went into a very serious game of gathering allies in different ways, and these allies came up with the idea that it would be necessary, or almost mandatory, at any cost, to separate the two debates. We must inform you that the SRS will not accept any fraud from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which wants to avoid talks and debates on Kosovo and Metohija. I want to remind you that US President George Bush has repeated twice in the last three days, in Tirana and Sofia, that Kosovo must become independent. It is interesting that the president of Serbia is silent, it is interesting that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is silent. We would talk here today about who should be at the head of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the most terrible threat prevailed over Serbia. The most fearsome threat has prevailed over Kosovo and Metohija, those who bombed us, those who killed little Milica Rakic, little Sanja Barvarina and thousands of other people in Serbia, openly say they want to kidnap both Kosovo and Metohija. Your friends we're joining, and we're stabilising something from the EU, I'm deliberately saying yours, because they're not friends of Serbia, who kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, so your friends agree with the US president that Serbs need to be taken away from Kosovo. We're just looking, and to be perfectly clear, some would have to think about it, not when Vojislav Kostunica is ready, not when Boris Tadic is ready, and they will never be ready until Kosovo gets independence. That report never looks like it's gonna be over! Never will anything be prepared about Kosovo and Metohija! No one will ever have anything to say because someone smart said -- hey, so I don't think the Assembly is going to decide on Kosovo and Metohija, we're not going to talk in the Assembly. Because there are three geniuses out there who run the entire state policy, so they're very smart, so they're going to run that policy. And what I'm saying with this much bitterness shows what Serbia is in today's situation. There's no room for smiles, there's no room for our mutual jokes, there's no sense sometimes, when you're on the most serious topic, you're tearing Serbia down. Come on, we'll let it go, even if it's talking about Tolimir, because it's good for us at Carla del Ponte. Perhaps another chocolate for one of your officers, you can make the entire chocolate industry here in Serbia how many Serbs you delivered to The Hague. And let me remind you, today is Milan Martic... I heard you, Mr. Albianic. I didn't hear Natasha Jovanovic. I want to inform you, I know you heard, but I see that no one reacts, as if it were normal, so just and justly, Milan Martic was sentenced to 35 years in prison. Guilty?- I'm sorry. Guilty of what?- I'm sorry. Because the villains who killed the Serb enemy in the action "Blash", who dropped their planes to 200m high and machined the columns of refugees that went from Okucan to Bosnia Gradiška, which went from Pakrac and Lipik to the free territory of Republika Srpska, because he returned and sent them three missiles. That's why Milan Martic got 35 years, and those who killed so many Serbian children, well, they're folk heroes, and they should be rewarded by Bush and I don't even know who it is. What is it that you do? Let's stop the radicals from discussing Kosovo and Metohija! We can let them have it, almost, to praise us at Carla del Ponte as we arrest with black jackets, because Carla loves black sacks and black bags most of all. They hate Serbs, but Carla del Ponte what she loves, it's a miracle!- I'm sorry. There's no chocolate she won't give you for it. How much is a kilo of Serbian meat?- I'm sorry. How much is a candy bar worth a kilo of Serbian meat?- I'm sorry. But just so you know, those who think it's possible to separate those points, well, let's talk this out, because it's bearable and acceptable, without talking about Kosovo and Metohija. It's unacceptable for us. We will not separate the discussion and debate on Kosovo and Metohija, for another session, from the debate on government mistrust, because Kosovo and Metohija and the question of the Serbian government are two key issues for today's Serbia. And those who are silent and who pretend that nothing has happened, Milan Martic got 35 years, yes, it is terrible people, they have condemned not self-proclaimed and self-proclaimed, as they lie to your media buzzers, from 'Bete' and beyond, it has not been declared by the people themselves, who wanted to live in the former Yugoslavia, who only wanted to stay in the same country and nothing more than that, and in accordance with the then existing SFRJ Constitution, who have trampled both Slovenia and Croatia and all other secessionist republics, but you don't care, it's important who will get NIS, who will get the EPS, who will get any other public enterprise. Whether Djelic or Vlahovic will receive the Energy Project. There, they killed each other, one in one newspaper, the other in the other, the third in the third newspaper. (President: Good, Mr. Wolfie.) What's good, Mr. Albianic? They only killed themselves over who will rob and Serbia is getting smaller -- preventing a debate in the National Assembly, condemning Martic to 35 years. How long?- I'm sorry. We invite all those who say they are in opposition not to make concessions to Vojislav Kostunica. We got a message yesterday. An envoy came to Tomislav Nikolic and asked to give up the debate on Kosovo and Metohija. He's been rejected! Today we heard the same story from several mouths, as if Vojislav Kostunica spoke through many mouths in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's his problem, Mr. Albianic, doesn't speak through the mouth of the people. What we're saying is what all Serbian citizens are telling you. They are waiting for the Assembly to say something about what the United States and your stabilisers and EU associates are doing, so they would like to join us, I guess, 85%, not 100% of our territory, but under certain conditions, when they attack us both on Raska and Vojvodina, as your Ambassador Cobel, who has not retired, who has not been removed. (President: It is the German ambassador. I'm sorry, I didn't know. I see he hangs out with some people a lot, sees that he's with some of them in various hotels, and at some games.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2326	Mr. Wolfie, you've broken so much time that I have no words. The tolerance threshold is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2327	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, for your tolerance. Serbia no longer has tolerance for your authority's indifference and haughtiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2328	If I understand this was an additional explanation for your written request, so this isn't voted on as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, therefore, we have a National MP, Momir Markovic. He's giving up. MP Gojko Radic? He's giving up. Do all MPs give up? National MP Rajko Đurić, as per the agenda point, you wanted, if I understood correctly. Does he want to do the agenda or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2329	Mr. Chairman, I'm about to tell you what's going on. It's about the replica, because I'm mentioned, though, in absentia, and that was the reason, and not the reason, because I answered the word, but when you've already given me a chance to speak, I have to remind myself of some principled things, given that young Belgrade, as smart children, has recapitulated our sessions from first to today at two points. First, these are the famous 'hulahopke', and second, a joke of Belgrade high school students – when Mr. Todor Zivkov received Serbian citizenship. Of course, I'm not going to answer that question, but I am obliged to say, given that we very often call for the need to preserve the Parliament's dignity, to warn of what may be known to all of us. In rhetoric there are three types, type, speech: – the first type of speech is the one that aims at being a lie; – the second type of speech is the one who intends to simply seduce the public; – the third type of speech is the one who is trying to reach the truth. As we've seen here, they're often spoken, they say texts that intend to seduce the public, which reminds us of that famous story about the elephant guide and the blind people. Namely, when the elephant guide said – people, get out of the way, I lead the elephant, then the blind people feel the elephant: one tail and he says that the elephant is something like 'rope', another trunk and said that the elephant is something like'snake', the third said that the elephant is like 'buret', because he felt his belly; and the fourth one felt the elephant's legs and said it was like'spread'. You see, very often we speak in the same way these blind people used to say, avoiding, in doing so, the complete truth. I must say that I have received this story of the citizens of the Bolsheviks with pain, but I, dear friends, remind you, those who do not know, of that, look at 'Time' what it says about the Roma, about 157 settlements where the average life span is 36 years old, where Roma children eat rats. Here's the latest report from the weekly Time. I won't bother you anymore with stories from Kostolc, the Fireman and so on, perhaps it would be best if a survey committee was formed by representatives of all political parties. I fully agree with Mrs. Radet that as MPs, we have to talk about people's troubles, regardless of the agenda point, because they intercept me, I've had almost a chance to get asked by a man from Barai – sir, do you know that my monthly salary in the PKK is 6,500 dinars? How am I supposed to live? How am I supposed to live off that salary? The second thing, given that I've been called, I think it's necessary to have a board for the Decada Roma, but also to form a survey board that will examine in detail all the things that concern Decada Roma. Because, please, it's about money, not just for Serbia, it's for ten Roma countries in ten Southeast European countries, where, for now, it's one billion dollars and 650 million for student scholarships. That money, unfortunately, is lost like water in the sand. That is why it is necessary to form a committee of inquiry. Finally, Mr. Chairman, since it is being manipulated by my name, I am obliged to say, it is the Holocaust Fund. For the first time in the history of Europe and Roma, I have raised this question and thanks, let me put it this way, to the lobby and to my skills and to my knowledge, I have managed for the first time to provide compensation to the victims of the Jewish people for the Roma of Europe since 1945. In Serbia alone, 10,000 citizens of Roma origin received compensation. For the first time in Serbia's history and in Roma history! And the others, of course, in their desire to belittle, speak complete lies about it. In this regard, and I will conclude, I am informing the public that for the first time now we have just received a list of the names of 18,538 Roma killed in Jasenovac, three months ago. And besides that list, a total of 26,000 were established with the name and last name of the Roma killed. And of course we, both as a party and as a foundation, will seek compensation, because we have a historical and moral right to do so, for those victims, anyway, as everyone else does. (President: Mr. Djuric, we have to finish the presentation. I'll finish, Mr. Albianic, by that. What offends me, as a man and as a citizen of this country, is a contest in patriotism. Serbia is a country and state of all its citizens, and in Serbia, I'm sorry, one third of its members live. Don't make any of the members of the national minorities needlessly, I'm sorry to say, enemies... (President: I'm sorry, I haven't heard that the event is organized yet. )......................................................................................................... because Serbia lies at the heart and members of national minorities and, of course, that I fully agree that Kosovo must be, inevitably, a serious and large topic of this parliament, but please, I am not as some say here or lawyer Voja Kostunica, although we have been acquaintances and friends for 30 years, nor Boris Tadic, but I am obliged to remind you that in 1999, Voja Kostunica and Boris Tadic were not in power... And if, please, it's nice... (Chairman: Mr. Djuric, we have exceeded every measure. )......................................................................................................... published in public that it came to "Dnevnik" Jelcina and other documents that, unfortunately, Serbia... (Chairman: Please, your time is up.) Thank you. I won't say what others say...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2330	Mr. Guric, please, time's up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic. Mr. Shane, did you answer the agenda or the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this speaker should be abused and the Serbian Parliament and citizens of Serbia are calling for tolerance. I think that the Serbian people and the conditions in which we live, the situation in which we are and the practice that is evident, shows that we are extremely tolerant of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of religious or national membership. One of the best examples is this parliament, where the chairman is a man who belongs to both Serbian and Croatian nationalities, and that no one at all is... (President: Mr. Todorovic, I belong to Serbian nationality. )......................................................................................................... In any way, he respected it. I wasn't thinking about you, Mr. Albianic, but you seem to have a problem... (President: You said – Chairman. I do not mean the current chairman, but the speaker of Parliament or the speaker of the assembly, however you wish. Someone's calling him a speaker. So is the foreign minister. No one has ever presented it here in any way as a problem. We differ by faith, by nation, by gender, by age. Unfortunately, some of them tended to, but it was never a problem here or anyone pointed it out. Therefore, do not warn us, nor was it ever a problem throughout Serbia's history. All citizens of Serbia enjoyed the maximum rights of citizens who allow the law and the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2332	People's MP Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Shane, I thought you were speaking in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2333	Thanks for the explanation. I report to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, I would not quote unless the chairman insists on that. Can I move on to the subject? (President: We are listening to you, please. ) I would like to refer the question to the MUP to make an official statement about the case it wrote about today in Dnevnik. Apparently, in Deronja, there's a minor, a second-class student, sexually abused by a child, who says he belongs to someone, I don't want to comment on the pay phone details about it, anyone who wants to be informed about the Dnevnik, but I would ask that we get official information from the MUP about it and possibly about the case that we can talk more specifically. Next thing you know, I'd like to warn you that there's talk in Vojvodina that the law should be passed to assign so-called affirmative measures. free chairs in the Duke's Minority Assembly. I believe that the proposal that goes in that direction, that the Roma, which has over 50,000, and only 20,000, have come out, should get the same number of MPs as some other minority, I do not want to say which minorities, which have the same numbers. We really need to start meeting the Roma National Community that way. On the contrary, we advocate the affirmative measures on the Law on the Protection of Minority Rights, and we are essentially doing something quite different. In that direction, I would like to ask another question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia: to refer information to me as a national MP and all the MPs, how many Roma in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have public powers. To remind you, Roma has about 8% in Serbia. We all know how many people there are with public authority. We simply want to have official information, whether what really happened to us from the field -- that the Roma voted, gave votes, and now some people in some parties are trading with their votes to provide places for their daughter and their closer relatives in some places with public functions. So we're looking for an explanation so that we can make a quality statement about this issue. The next thing I want to pass on to all MPs, it is to ask you to give a round of applause to all people of good faith who are fighting for the world of 150 million children no longer being exploited and working. Thank you very much. So much for respecting your children. No one's gonna applaud just because I'm not in anybody's party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2334	Thank you, Mr. Shane. The question will be forwarded in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Slavisa Topalovic came forward, and then the MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2335	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, you, Mr. Chairman, probably have electricity when the problem of the Grmovci has made you laugh a little while ago; you laugh and you make faces. I have electricity like all MPs in this House, so no one laughs. I'd like to ask you to get serious, with that electricity, it's a big and serious problem. Mr. Komataina, you know that for urban conditions, citizens wait up to six months, even more. If a person gets a little more honor within a very short and reasonable period of time, and even then you stick to the legal term. To remind you, the legal deadline for obtaining urban conditions is from 7 to 30 days, and you, Mr. Komatatina, do not adhere to that. Is it a problem that you have certain pressures, Mr. Komataina?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2336	I apologize, Mr. Topalovic, please tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure and by which member of the Rules of Procedure you address Mr. Komatini.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2337	Member of Rules of Procedure 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2338	Ministers and MPs aren't here, and you're talking to the city service. Do you have any MPs in the City Hall?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2339	Mr. Albianic, I'm speaking to the Minister of Energy, let me finish, so it'll be a clear question for you that I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2340	The whole time you were saying, "Mr. Komatatina, Mr. Komataina, it's like he's in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2341	Of course, I mention him because he's responsible, and the Ministry of Energy is responsible for obtaining consent to electricity. Vojislav Kostunica and you bear part of the responsibility, you are part of the coalition, your encrypted party and other van parties. Let me finish, please. Mr. Komatina is probably under pressure from those who prevent Grmovac from obtaining electricity, who wants to move the settlement out of there to buy an entire settlement for poor money, then tear down and sell as an extra location for an industrial zone located along the Belgrade – Zagreb highway. So many objects crash because of an individual and a tycoon who wants to get rich?- I'm sorry. Why do you participate in this, Mr. Komatina, and together all of you in the Government who support and who put this man in this position? Do you have any personal interest here, Mr. Komataina? If it's not personal interest, then it's pressure, tell which pressure to hear Serbian citizens. I recommend that you help these citizens, grant them that consent. You will burn the fuse, too, Mr. Komata, until you replace the fuse, but only until you replace it. As soon as you replace it, you will get electricity, and the citizens and children of the Grmovac cannot replace the fuse, because you do not allow them to connect to electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2342	Mr. Topalovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2343	I'll call back later, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2344	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic, then Milorad Buha, then Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2345	Gentlemen, it seems to me that everything is booming in Serbia, and that only we have problems in Bolmovac and Sutotica. I don't know what's going on, but we mostly have a bigger problem with Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2346	Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2347	Wait, you'll find out right away. He's a member of 225.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2348	So, you're giving a question to someone?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2349	I'm not referring to the question. I am asking and I will read, if you had started reading article 225 and following what the MPs are looking for, you would have already known, but don't steal that way and in time. ''The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2350	I'm not stopping you. A man has as much information as he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2351	I'm sorry the president left, so you're changing him. I would like to receive documents and get an answer so I can follow up, as the SRS has filed a criminal report and a lawsuit to the Republic Prosecutor for organised crime, a request to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to suspend its contract, as well as the Privatisation Agency to annul. I ask for an explanation of whether someone committed a crime in privatization when he reported 1900 squares, whether 700 and some squares of business space in Minerva were hidden at that time, or if someone invented squares now in exchange for a business space, because an excess of 700 and some squares appeared, so that you authorities I called could reach the perpetrator and those who rob the property of the Republic of Serbia as quickly as possible. It's not just about the property of the Republic of Serbia. The problem arises in general in the functioning of the society in Subotica; in the functioning of socio-political life, in the functioning of the economy. Everyone's coming, but we're not surprised, if we know that a little bit of Mr. Bubalo's staying at the Hunting House in Subotica, and he's making deals with the powers, the locals, from Saturday. What's going on? When the state agency privatizes and sells some company in Subotica, it sold the state. It's about former cooperatives right now. Then what's going on? Then he says it's a demarcated state and social country. Well, gentlemen, then for selling state land and taking money, you said you were selling them 80 acres, and later you tell me we're taking 46 acres, it's state-owned and it's not yours anymore. What difference does it make that you paid for it, and you're looking for protection somewhere, and I don't know which country. The state sells you, one agency, another agency, government, they take away that property you bought. Now, we ask the question, how and where do we Serbs in Subotica feel that we are threatened, in what way. Here, I was talking about "The Ripper." What's going on in "The Ripper"? People bought and organized themselves, played by Serbs, bought the 'Rasadnik', bought the land, bought everything. When they found out that half of their assets they bought were 46 acres of waste, it wasn't theirs anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2352	You're out of time, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2353	Let me finish. How do we protect ourselves now and why did you sell it to us? The state agency sold, the state of kidnapping, the agency and the government of Vojislav Kostunica, repossessing that property. Now, the question arises, by the game of the case, before them, with the 'Sadar', the same gentleman who bought all these premises, four acres. It wouldn't be interesting if he bought it, so if we knew the price, but he traded it for some country we don't know where it is, no Sobotacian would know where it is, and he got land on a bat path. And don't lie to the devil, right away, that same month, the same country sold Walter from Germany for a million and 200,000 marks. I'd like to see how much that land he traded for the "Rasadnik" in Subotica, and give it somewhere by some "tuks" on Subotics, and whether they have the same values or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2354	Thank you, Mr. Radic. I have to warn you that you've overstepped your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2355	I'm just finishing up so I don't go out again. How come, zealous Minister Dulic, later 'ex' minister, asked for the country to be taken away, so what's not then, and this was a state country, separated. What hasn't been initiated and this country that's been sold to a stranger, who's been replaced by someone before, why the country hasn't been in a dispute. No, because it's not a Serb, then it can stay the way it is and how the situation is found. Only when it comes to Serbs is the issue can the situation not be found in Subotica be applied, but only in cases of non-Serbs. And here we find that Belgrade, not Belgrade as a city, that individuals from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, for the sake of mutual agreement and trades with the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, have come to such an account and I don't believe that they haven't made private peace, because it's a bassological figure, I can't guess, I can't dream, I can't imagine how big the figures are, and they're mostly big ones. I don't just believe it was some political deal here and it must be personal and private.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2356	It's over for you to report to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Radic, you have reached out to Article 225 who says, "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and of the information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly’s section. ''As for Article 226, you asked for an explanation, and you will get it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Milorad Buh, and then the MP of the people, Momir Markovic, appeared. Here you go, Mr. Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2357	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting in respect of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, it's not an injury, it's a search for information. The government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in persecution, led by it, was saddened by news from The Hague that the president of Republika Srpska's state, Mr. Milan Martic, was sentenced to 35 years in prison. He was convicted by the International Court in The Hague and it is a shameful verdict. She's ashamed of being convicted of a war crime he didn't commit. This is a verdict not only for Milan Martic, but also for the Serb people, and especially for the people of Republika Srpska and all Serbs who have been expelled by war crimes of genocide, ethnic cleansing from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Republika Srpska. The crime Croatia committed over the Krajina people is unfortunately a repeat of the crime. To remember only crimes during World War II, over a million Serbs were killed in Croatia during World War II. The children of those bloodlocks who were not convicted after World War II committed a crime between 1991 and 1995, unfortunately, the war crime continues today. And after 1995, we witnessed murders, bombings on Serbian houses, especially return home to Croatia. Unfortunately, very few returnees to Croatia. Let's get back to the International Court's verdict in The Hague. She's a disgrace. It is a shame that the international community, i.e. major forces, is primarily the Vatican for providing spiritual and financial support to the Croatian state to commit a crime, and on the other hand, America and the EU have given material and military support to Croatia to commit a crime. The crime was committed against the Serb people. We must understand that, in this case, Martić's verdict was only done because the international community wanted to hide the crime she was involved in. She is an accomplice to a crime against the Serbian people. Unfortunately, the accomplice of the crime is the DOS authority that allowed and negotiated with Martic, deceived him, and in 2002 took him to The Hague. She didn't do anything to help him with the defense. Milan Martic's family went to The Hague by private means. Private funds provided documentation to Milan Martic to protect himself, to defend himself. This state has done nothing to help him, not only in his case, but also in the cases of all indictees in The Hague. SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague for five years. What does this power do to help him? Nothing. It's a shame what you're doing. The crime committed must be lit up and he will certainly be enlightened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2358	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2359	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in addition to everything we've said, and about electricity and the Grmovac settlement, another thing that hasn't been said this morning, so I'm obliged to say that for 15 days, a group of the inhabitants of the village of Grmovac has been strikein' hunger. Of course, the Democrats certainly won't shake it, they won't throw them out of easy nap, out of the rudimentary, and I ask the citizens of Serbia as long as thanks to an idiot from the Democratic Party of Serbia who happens to be a secretary...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2360	Don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2361	An idiot is someone who doesn't understand politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2362	We have to keep an eye on the expressions we use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2363	Because such a man has found himself in such a place, there have been no electricity for 11 years. They don't have water either. The city hall was obliged to make a ring through the settlement, and water was brought to the settlement in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you turn on the water heater tonight, remember that 15 kilometers from this building live people who are still using the oil to light their room. When you turn on the water heater tonight to shower the children, remember that it is not possible for the citizens of the shrubs. Remember, one of you made it impossible for people to live a normal life with their signature. When I answered the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226, and asked for an explanation from the ministers, Mr. Chairman, not from the chairman but from the ministers, after I had reviewed the papers I had received, some things became clear to me. I continue to ask Minister Jocic and the minister of justice to say how far the investigation into the theft at the Privatisation Agency has arrived. It's not about laptops smiling some from the democratic bloc, it's not about two laptops that cost maybe 60-70,000, but it's about the data that was there and that got those who would privatize tomorrow, not to say rob, kidnap both NIS and EPS and Bor. Besides, you know how many tears have been shed that the Couprom didn't buy Bor. You know why? Ask yourself how much commission would be given to that minister who was most keen to sell the Bohr to the Kuprom. And to give you some more information, I'm telling the citizens of Serbia, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2364	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2365	I know you're a tolerance. You'll last another minute. Last year, NIS Director Srdjan Bosnjakovic spent a billion dinars, ladies and gentlemen on advertising, propaganda and sponsorship! Now, Balaq is preparing for director of Petrol. Let me remind you, in the Trizon affair, the same Balaic is a co-founder of 16m euros, for which the state of Serbia has been robbed. "Trizon" has left, an affair under the carpet! Ladies and gentlemen of the democratic bloc, all affairs are properly written, packed and waiting for the next election, if God, already this fall, the SRS to assume power and responsibility and to call you for all affairs. Of course, not to call you, but to get the police to do their job, to get the judiciary to do its job, then it's known.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2366	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. It's clear, we're going to talk about the Bolt again and we're not going to give up on this subject for any more reason. We received a notice that he tried to get the President of the Assembly to, uh, direct here. He's probably not here right now. The President of Parliament has other obligations, I understand that, however, it is extremely useful for him to be more in this Parliament because man is inexperienced. He himself said he'd found himself in a miracle, not to see how to solve that problem when we call on Article 226. Yes, he signes, according to various institutions, different demands to answer the questions we ask for this assembly speaker. The problem, however, is a slightly different problem. That's an acute problem. What's the acute problem? Because 50 people strike today in the earthly congregation. These people strike hunger and it's completely justified. In the 21st century, you who talk about running this society in Europe and often point out that civilization fluid is something that is law for you, you in one city, Belgrade, do not allow 2,000 people to have an elemental need called electricity. Ten years, these people have been trying. And what an argument: let them give you radicals, and let those who have given you plots give you. Let's go back, what happened to those parcels disputed? What are these plots, who got these parcels? Are the tycoons some, is it something taken from the people? These plots have been given refugees on which you would probably prefer to define the constituency centers, in which some, unfortunately, and day-to-day, live in extremely inhumane conditions. They got next to these people, our refugees, they know from which neighborhoods, people of weaker material conditions: educators, medical workers, mid-terms, these people got there, there's 2,000 people like that. Now you say you have a controversial thing, ten people the owner should agree to. It gave more than 50% of the people consent to cross their property. And who didn't? There are those who died, so now there's a desert debate in progress. Let me get back to the president. When this is a problem, what did we ask the president to do? We're asking you to give us information on this case. If it were an experienced president, he'd turn one phone, ask the authorities what it's about? And then? If he had something called culture, something called fineness, then he would appeal to someone who was in a difficult situation, and he would also advocate his reputation as MP of the president, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that an obvious injustice and indeed something that is so incomprehensible correct. Well, that's what we expect from our president. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2368	Mr. Momchilov, it's past business time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2369	I'll end up with two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2370	Who has the finesse and culture he follows whether it's past time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2371	And that's true and, look, I'm going to break up for exactly the reasons you're pointing out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2372	National MP Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2373	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 226. I'd like to ask the next explanation from the Minister of Energy to try to influence Mr. Komatin and if there's any way...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2374	Mr. Topalovic, you have already repeatedly asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to get an explanation of this Mr. Komatini and your case. We'll pass on the request, but you can't, as a MP five times, report for the same thing and ask for the same explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2375	You, Mr. Albianic, look at the Rules of Procedure and see where it says that my report to the Rules of Procedure is limited. Secondly, let me go, I have more information that Serbian citizens need to get about the Grmovac and Electricity case. And don't get involved in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2376	I am not involved in this, I am just warning you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2377	Allow me, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2378	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're looking for an appropriate explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2379	I've come to the phone after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm looking for an explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2380	That means we have to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's a complete absurdity, and you're looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2381	Mr. Albianic, the energy minister should try to influence Mr. Komatin. First of all, the question is whether it can affect and whether there is a way you could convince Mr. Komatin to sign consent to obtain electricity for the Grmovac settlement. You know, on a question addressed to your fellow Serbian MPs and to you from the ruling coalition, who is in touch with Komatain and can anyone influence, repeat, or do you not have party discipline or are you all against that agreement? In particular, Mr. Aligrudic confirmed my assumption that Mr. Komata is an ordinary fool. I don't know why and if you are, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2382	Mr Topalovic, you cannot express yourself in this way in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2383	I was just quoting Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2384	Mr. Topalovic, I'll interrupt you in your presentation if you continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2385	I'm not going on like that. Let me continue. I don't know if you're what Mr Aligrudic, the head of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, said to you. I haven't been able to ask Mr. Aligrudic, why put such people on such responsible functions when you can't control them? Only you can do so in the Democratic Party of Serbia and in the ruling coalition. What are you to blame for the citizens of the Thunder when, I repeat, all the consents necessary for the connection of electricity are obtained? Information just arrived, Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic this morning told the citizens of Grmovci to go to the radicals and let them agree. So, yesterday's Komatina and today's Radmila Hrustanovic. Another elaborate action by the democratic bloc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2386	Mr Topalovic, you've run out of time to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2387	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2388	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Damjanovic. For an explanation, all the questions you have referred will be forwarded to the responsible institutions for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2389	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. – notice and explanation, we know, about, that the citizens of the Grmovac, displaced persons have escaped from ethnic cleansing from Slavonia, Croatia, etc. Under the International Charter of Humanitarian Law, these citizens have the right to infrastructure and to all those needs to live as citizens. We as a people of Serbia, as a National Assembly and as an institution of this state -- a democratic Serbia, surely we should do and do everything according to all the statutes and declarations since the displaced persons, escaped from ethnic cleansing, escaped from death, and we are here killing our own people uprightly. I wonder if this is '45 when there was a release, when there was no power, when there was no water, so again, people were somehow getting by? If, as they say, on the political line, please, it's terrible. It is retribution on the political line, which is not allowed by any laws, nor by the Constitution of our democratic Serbia. That can't happen. Today we need to know that we have old people there, and sick people and little children. These kids and those old people, sick, people can't live with dignity for their lives like they're supposed to live in our country. For what? If it's because of political commitment, it's terrible. I appeal to the top of our country, I urge the Ministry of Energy to allow the citizens of the Grmovac infrastructure that belongs to them as citizens as soon as possible. You shouldn't let this get to internationalization. I have now received a telephone call from friends in Grmovac – if by the end of the week, the connection is not enabled by the citizens, that they will block the highway and that they will not move away until their requests are approved which are justified. I appeal once again, do, it is humane, to our citizens to live with dignity in this country as the other Serbs do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2390	The word has a People's MP Milan Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then a National MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. - Mr President, I would like to ask for further explanations, of course, to confirm my parliamentary group's position that we will not give up on the topic of supplying electricity to the Grmovac settlement and of course, the responsibilities and for the political dealings that were present during the previous periods when Nenad Komatina was elected city secretary for urbanism. For better information, I would like to meet the MPs that Nenad Komatina is a member of the DSS only 50%, as it is on paper, and that the other 50% is a member of the DS, as it has an active activity and participation related to urbanism in central municipalities, such as Vračar, Savinac and Old Town. So the first thing, which is very important, is about these three municipalities that I've listed, Nenad Komatina doesn't have any responsibility or remorse when it comes to any other community besides these three. Why do I say that? As a member of the DSS, who was the chairman of the Management Board of Business Area SO Vračar, please, Mr. Chairman, to write it down and check it, because it was a conflict of interest, to be the chairman of the Management Board of Business Area and to be the City Secretary for Urbanism, had no will to agree that for any supply of electricity or signatures related to another settlement, more specifically to the village of Grmovac, and he had the will to violate all urban acts and regulation plan to allow some tycoons in these three central municipalities to build or legalise already built objects. So, what's very important is that Nenad Komatina, as a member of the DSS, and as a member, more specifically, the DS function on these three municipalities that I have listed, must not remain undetected, unspeakable, related to statements by the SRS MPs. So, please check the claim whether Nenad Komatina was the chairman of the Management Board of Business Area at Vračar Municipality, whether the owner of Petrovgrad's cafe was in the municipality, in Petrovgrad Street, whether it was more important for him to do so as to have a coffee shop, which he has as a co-owner, more specifically, and whether he had more important business premises in these three municipalities, or whether it was in charge that he should finish, more precisely, to give one paragraph so that the citizens of Grmovac could live and function as all other citizens of Serbia, who, in some way, had already gotten better in the previous period. As regards legalization and the changes and functioning of the city secretary for urbanism, Mr. Komatine, I would also mention very interesting thesis, if he had given consent...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2392	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2393	Here, I'm finishing up, he signed for a violent change in the regulation plan at the Sava Venac Municipality, more specifically in block 1 space and block 20 on Dedinj, because he probably found a large percentage for himself, and there's no percentage here, because he needs to give a paraphras for the supply of electricity. Please do, in some way, the pressure, like all MPs of the SRS, to get that signature done once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2394	National MP Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP of the people Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported a breach of Rule 103's Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I was able to monitor the presentation of Ms. Verica Radeta, the MP of the SRS, when her speech was distracted the whole time she spoke. I believe that a member of 103 is injured because the speaker, as he norms this member, can talk about issues that are on the agenda, about those issues that are important to the citizens of Serbia and about those issues that will allow them to perform the role of the MP. During the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. The most obvious example is that in this way, and we know in the past that it was, so I think that practice should be interrupted and I think that's when the Rules of Procedure got hurt. I am reporting under Article 225 and Article 226 and I am looking for an explanation, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfil its obligations to the Pancheva Municipality? I come as an MP from Panchev, there are about 130 thousand inhabitants, the southern industrial zone is in fact "Azotara", "Petrochemia" and "Rafineria", these are enterprises of vital importance for the Republic of Serbia, however, the citizens of the city of Panchev are at risk. It is the most polluted city in Serbia. This has been discussed several times by the government and has pledged 360m euros to carry out certain jobs that are relevant for the change of technology. Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Panchev and the environment that are dying, and you know that about 1,500 citizens of the town of Panchev, i.e. the municipality, are dying of cancer, precisely because this city is the most polluted, and it is the dirtiest industry in Serbia. I would remind you that around 210m euros in exports from Petrochemia were carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia. What's left of this dying town? Nothing! No yellow bank! When we spoke two years ago, Mr. Labus, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, promised that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would take appropriate measures to correct the situation and to replace recovery and technology. However, it has nothing to do with it. The people of Panchev were forced to close windows and doors. Children are in health care facilities instead of schools. That's what the citizens of Panchev didn't deserve. The government of the Republic of Serbia must take appropriate measures and give certain resources to save the population of the Pancevo municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2396	Mr. Jojic, time's up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2397	I'll finish. Secondly, to remind you, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Ecology have done nothing. When gasification can be carried out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia even in Gornji Milanovac, Čačka, Arlje, Užica, Kraljevci, Kragujevac, and not to count, and in Pančev where sources of such raw materials cannot, it is really inappropriate. It is inappropriate for local government officials to introduce gas where they live in residential blocks, and that 50 meters where ordinary Pancians and citizens live can't get a connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2398	Mr. Jojic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2399	Although citizens have paid, but there is no such control, there is no control of the competent ministries to go and see what local self-government is doing to them – to give citizens the opportunity to enjoy what they have under the Constitution and law and law. I therefore call on the competent Ministry of Ecology and the competent energy ministry to check and provide information to both MPs and citizens of the Pancheva municipality, why the connection of gasification is prevented for the citizens who paid. I was talking about Panchevo being the most endangered city with 130,000 inhabitants. Thank you, Chairman, for allowing me to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2400	Mr. Jojic, you have to answer my question whether, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we need to make a statement, because the speaker can only talk about the issue that is on the agenda and we fully agree here. The question is, we haven't been able to since this morning. Is this what the National Assembly needs to declare? Yeah. ) About the injury of Article 103? Yeah. "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. '"I agree this goes to a vote. Thank you, Mr. Jojic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Slavisa Topalović, and then the People's Messenger, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2401	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I'm asking for an explanation from the Minister of Energy on the case of electricity for the village of Grmovac. Yesterday, Komatina, today, Radmila Hrustanovic said that the citizens of Grmovac are seeking help from the SRS because they gave them and allowed them to build their buildings on the Grmovac. Is this another deliberate action of the democratic bloc – the revenge of the SRS through the citizens of Grmovac and their children? You think that's how you're going to win and keep power in the upcoming elections? Give that people consent to the connection of electricity! Now leave partying aside. Help that people. I appeal to the "Salana caplar" Boris Tadic, help and tell your staff...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2402	Don't talk about the president of the Republic of Serbia like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2403	I don't think that's an offensive term. Tell your staff, since Mr. Komatina is, we heard earlier, when both DSS and DS, 50:50:50, to approve consent to obtain electricity to the citizens of the Grmovci. Kostunica, the prime minister of Serbia, can directly order and say that consent is approved for the acquisition of electricity. Otherwise, we will believe that they are all together responsible for failing to agree and that they are all together, together with you, Mr Albianic, responsible for preventing the citizens of Grmovci from getting electricity. Is it because it is planned to tear down the settlement, so that some tycoon buys it at a miserable price, to sell a good location along the Belgrade-Zagreb highway for an industrial zone? It's a question for the Minister of Energy, Mr Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2404	Which is where you mentioned my name. I never said these people shouldn't get electricity. Please don't bring me into any contact. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the people, Pai Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly amazing that the SRS MPs today bring up three terrible things that are happening in Serbia. We first spoke and informed the public of Serbia and the MPs that Milan Martic in The Hague was sentenced to 35 years in prison, and these of you boasted about what they were, where they were and how they had dinner with Karl. Then we say the ruling coalition is avoiding the Kosovo and Metohija debate, and Bush is walking around Serbia and promising Kosovo independence. We've been talking all day about the fact that a large number of people in Zemun, inhabited in Grmovac, have no electricity, that they paid for the electricity, and none of you think of it, if anything else, if you can't say something smart on that subject, at least listen politely when we talk about the torments of our people. You laugh at all this, you go out, you walk, you're gone, there's no cameraman. Here, I call on them now to enter the O.R. and to record this side at this time where the representatives of the government are sitting, to show the citizens of Serbia how interested the representatives of the authorities are in solving the problems of the Serbian citizens. It's really terrible that you show how you support the government. And you, as well as the Government, are only interested in whom the EPS will be sold, and which will be sold to the NIS. You are not interested in the real problems of Serbian citizens. You are not interested in the violation of human rights in Grmovac and the direct violation of Article 20 by ministers and government, which speaks of restrictions on human and minority rights, and Article 21, which prohibits discrimination. I'm talking about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If we were a very normal state and we had a very serious government, when MPs have been talking for several hours about the topic that has been happening for years, which has been present for years, but has now culminated, when they are talking about the necessity of joining the electricity of Grmovac, then, for the past few hours, as we speak, both ministers of 'general practice' would come here, and Popovic and the previous Naumov, and they would explain here to the peoples and citizens of Serbia, or they would point out that SRS MPs are wrong, or they would explain what this is about. So I guess that Naumov would explain that he was in the municipality of Zemun, that he reached an agreement with President Gordan Pop-Lazic, that they were representatives of the City Assembly, that they were representatives of the Elektroprivred Company and that all conditions were met, that an agreement was reached for these citizens to receive electricity about 15 days ago. That's why they strike today, because they've lost their patience. They waited until that moment when they finally received firm assurances, as representatives of those citizens were present at the meeting and waited patiently for another 15 days. We fully understand them, there are no other ways, and Serbia's citizens who have other problems will understand, why we, SRS MPs, are talking about Grmovac today and we will talk as long as Naumov and Popovic, and Kostunica with them, and does not explain to us both the citizens and the Grmovac and Serbia why they are discriminating the citizens of Serbia, who have been living in the village for more than 10 years. Why do they regard them as second-class citizens, why, because of political bickering and because they do not tolerate the success of the SRS in Zemun, the sacred to those people who are neither guilty nor in debt, who, if it hadn't been for the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, would have been in collective accommodations and today and would not have been in their houses, unfortunately, still without electricity. I apologize, Mr. Albianic, I apologize to my colleagues for speaking much more than the Rules of Procedure allow, but I will not report to the Rules of Procedure any time soon, but I certainly will unless the ministers arrive in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2406	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, was named by the National Messenger Dragoljub Anastastovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out, in my opinion, a breach of Article 104. - "The Members of the People are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. ''I think there is a way here today to demonstrate disrespect for the National Assembly, precisely because of the way this congregation is run and how one who manages the Assembly behaves according to the debate that is being held in this house. We have a problem with the Grmovec and the MPs of the SRS will not give up the problem. I was free, even, to direct some of my vision of what the President of Parliament should do in such a situation, when there is an acute problem, not to repeat everything that my colleagues have pointed out. I think it would be appropriate to just turn one phone number, try to find a solution in such an acute situation, then advocate the authority of the president of the Assembly and help the citizens of Serbia. We, Serbian radicals, are not making any obstruction here. It is basic living conditions for 2,000 citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. Therefore, we do not want to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, we see that we do not. We don't care how the UN tribunal condemns the defenders of Serbian national interest in a dragonic way and in an unfair way. Okay. But we do not want to discuss and we are not interested in the vital problems of Serbian citizens either. We don't agree to that. We insist on resolving these issues in a way that is possible. It's my suggestion to you, President, bet your authority, see what it's all about, give an answer to us, and we will, of course, also to these poor people, not to repeat who these are people who make up the population of the village of Grmovac. There's one more interesting thing when we talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, since the president is here, I'm not going to ask him to vote on hurting the Rules of Procedure, namely that statement by the president that he is a representative of finesse and culture. You know, the function of the People's President doesn't include that. You don't need to be cultural and fine. It's desirable it is. You don't need to be a pedagogue, you don't have a pedagogical function, as a function to the president, imposed. When you're in class, I hope you'll be like a doctor, then you'll be an assistant, and then you'll take one step forward while you're a professor. Therefore, in view of your age, I say to you as an older colleague, it is not appropriate for you to be that supreme pedagogal who will teach one environment. There's only two more sentences here, and there's a lot of talk about the Parliament and it's like this, and it's like that. The Serbian Parliament is what the Serbian people are, it is a picture of the Serbian people. The atmosphere in the Assembly reflects the social atmosphere. What a social atmosphere you've known well since 2000, and then you've also got the unfortunate man going crazy and killing a judge and a lawyer in a courtroom. It's something that's social pathology that's and how it's come to life and it's broadly present in our society, and it's known why. For the robbery, the corruption that's happening to us. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2408	I thank my colleague. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragoljub Anastasovski appears, and then MP Nikola Žutic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, and I can do anything else, because you don't know who's drinking or who's paying for it anymore. However, for the ruling furniture, to inform them that Grmovac is a nice Belgrade suburban settlement, some 20km from downtown Belgrade. In this village live people just as we are here, but these people depend now on individuals, on some Komatina, on Radmila Hrustanovic who have declared themselves small gods in this city, thinking that they will remain forever. No, local elections are coming and we'll see how they go. I don't know who these people are to depend on over 2,000 residents of a village, that they don't approve of anything. Is this the lady, I apologize, Radmila Hrustanovic, who has several places in Belgrade that she betrays and lives quite nicely with her husband, the sheriff. I can't say anything about Mr. Comatin because I don't know him, but he's obviously a bad man. A man who should not have the trust not only of the inhabitants of the shrubs, but of the Belgrade citizens at all, and not even of his own party. I think all the inhabitants of the Grmovac settlement should get electricity, because they have a right to do that. These gentlemen who oppose it should know that this is the 21st century, that people in stables, in pigs, introduce electrical energy and use it in all these rooms, and that citizens are not allowed to have their bathrooms, that they can bathe, that they can maintain personal hygiene and use the benefits that they can use, and that they are denied. We've lost a lot of time here, we haven't said anything, and this problem can solve a phone conversation that some seem to have no hearing. I'd like to welcome all the inhabitants of the Grmovac settlement, wish them luck, and they'll get electricity soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2410	Thank you. National MP Nikola Žutic, then MP Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2411	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I ask for a notice on what the Serbian government will do about the scandalous verdict on Milan Martic and whether it will take countermeasures. In addition to the SRS, no other political formation mentions the return of the situation in the current countries of crime to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time of the election of the legitimate people's plebiscite in the establishment of Republika Srpska, the return of the status of political people, the Krajina Serbs, and the eradication of the humiliatingly violently established position of the national minority. The devastating fact is that there is no indication that the Serbian state will launch the usual legal requirements for the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with international law. From the point of view of international law, the violently established state-of-law situation in the Republic of Croatia is completely illegal. The war ended with the criminal occupation of Republika Srpska, as you know by UN-protected states, without holding a peace conference that would at least ensure a minimum of the people's rights of the Western Serbs. Instead of a pet-Western Croatia peace conference for its crimes of killing and banishing Western Serbs, it was rewarded by international legalisation by force to establish a great Croatia in the historic Serbian country. In fact, the policy of force with the blessing of liberal democracies, primarily the United States, has allowed Croatia to occupy Serbian countries, but the Yugoslav Sea and islands that have never been Croatian in history. The Western English cartographers had one hour on the other side. The Western Liberals gave the Serbian leadership a hint that they could create united Serbian countries in 1990. This is evident from the map of the future broken Yugoslavia published by the "News Week" in the summer of 1990, which was to create new countries of Slovenia, Croatia and Montenegro, separate Kosovo and Metohija from the administrative units of the SFRY. In fact, Kosovo and Metohija are pictured as an integral part of Albania. According to the British official body, however, it was to be created, what he called a large Serbia to which Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina would enter with a wider band of exits to the sea. Even at that time, the English predicted the formation of a free province, with a centre in Knin. Dear MPs, how do you interpret this public cartography, are you like playing with Serbian tribes? Why in 1990, only Yugoslavia was designed in a broken state, why is the responsibility of the liberal West for the breaking of Yugoslavia and not Milan Martic and the Krajina Serbs not sought? On the other hand, all the elements of the genocide are present in the Storm, so there is a plan, an execution, a preparation. There is a known Tudjman transcript, a plan to kill Serbs, planned action, planned destruction, killing, eviction of Serbs. I hope that my parliamentary question will reach the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2412	Of course. Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zdravko Topalovic and then by MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2413	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Article 225 and 226. As long as this session of several citizens of Obrenovac has been held, we have received word. For what? Namely, as employees of the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant on whose territory it is, they ask the question is it possible that in the 21st century the citizens of Grmovac cannot get electricity, and the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant via Ernestinov via power lines is exporting electricity to the Republic of Croatia, and is that possible? Is this just another dirty introduction to another dirty privatisation of Serbia's entire energy system by Hamovic and Lazarevic, who, undeniably, is known to belong to Kostunica's summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2414	Thank you. National MP Nenad Canak, then MP Vesna Nikolic - Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2415	Dear People's MPs, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly. In Article 103, which is – the speaker can only talk about issues that are on the agenda. Right now, the agenda, as far as I can tell, is at point 4. – proposals for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly board, and here we obviously do not talk about it. It's about article 106. - a reminder to be given by the President of the National Assembly shall be made if, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, one speaks of issues that are not on the agenda, and the President of the National Assembly does not give notice. I must say that all that we have heard outside the agenda are extremely important things, but these important things cannot be answered by anyone in this room, only by the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These ministers must be here and stop humiliating the National Assembly with their absence. These ministers must be here and account for the MPs who elected them, not act in the worst bureaucratic sense, as they are now doing. That is why I ask the President of the National Assembly to inform us when we will be discussing an initiative to replace the current government, which, for the 27 days of its duration, has not brought any good, but has only deepened the gap between the National Assembly and the executive government, which must be two parts of the total of three authorities in this country. That is why the self-government of the Serbian government must be reconsidered, and therefore I ask the President of the National Assembly when to discuss the government's shift initiative and here I support absolutely anyone who is in favour of putting the government in the face of the National Assembly and of all citizens of Serbia and let the answers that are being placed here. So let's ask each other why there's electricity or no electricity somewhere, that we're asking each other and that we're here discussing things that no one can answer, is spending and time and money and nerves, anyway, the tortured citizens of this country. Please, Mr. President, answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2416	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Canak. Given that the SRS MP's proposal came from 81 MPs, which is called the Republic Government Change Initiative, and according to Article 130. I have to put the constitution on the first next session of that initiative. At the first next session, one of the points is the government's replacement initiative, as will be the agenda point of adoption of the Kosovo Resolution, which they also proposed today. The first next session will be when we are done with this session, or when the agenda is exhausted, when we have a day to vote, as soon as possible. That will depend on you, of course. The word is from the MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, and then from the people's ambassador, Zvonimir Stevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2417	Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I wanted to talk to you a moment ago, I had one regret in the address of Mr Dulic, when it came to me, that is, when he announced me as a national MP, or a national MP. I wanted to tell him that the Parliament of People, or MPs in our language, has another meaning and that I am the MP of the SRS. That's one thing. Before Mr. Dulic, what Mr. Sarovic said a little bit about introducing his system of culture into the country of Serbia, the City of Belgrade, before introducing such cultural measures, I would ask him to bring his ruling party, to warn his government and resolve the first fundamental existential issues of our people, concerning human dignity itself. So, first you have to solve the basic primary human question, then go to culture as an upgrade, Mr. Dulic. Incidentally, I have a book on me, which has the title "O life of a refugee." 'I'd like to pray, I don't know where the cameras are coming from, to record this. I come from Raga County, where this topic is by no means my side, where it is not just the Grmovac, is not the only problem place, but the entire Kingdom municipality is a problem, when it comes to Serbian refugees. What you don't know, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I'd like to read you from this book just a few things about refugees. This book was published in 2001 by a man named Ilija Shekuljica, in the King. He says, "The refugee is left to the birthplace, the graves of the ancestors, the workplace, meadows and orchards, streets and squares. The refugee is an escape in front of a camel with the mind of a sucking bandit. The refugee is a bandage in his hand, a stiff, freaked-out look, a palely elected and frightened face. The refugee is a rapid aging and early maturation. The refugee is the lost hope and separation from the nearest. The refugee is black in the soul and in the eyes. The refugee is fear and babble. The refugee is ready to get through years and years of refugee life, and not having the strength to get through hours, minutes, because every minute is as long as eternity. The refugee is a witness to one time, one space, a chill, a infidelity in the confusion of bloodshed, physical torment and mental suffering, all the evils that have come upon her, shaken and frightened his soul. The refugee is the flow of birthplace through horrible dreams. The refugee is losing old habits, thoughts and desires. The refugee is seeing all the works in the same gray. The refugee is the object of those who give him food and bed, who train him and heal him. The refugee is longing for his own and the inability to be seen and met with them. The refugee is unorientated and uninformed. The refugees are working non-engagement. The refugee is the belief that everyone well returns to the good and every evil. The refugee is a moat, suffering, suffering, and asphyxiation in pain. The refugee is calling dawn, sun, morning, stars, rainbows. The refugee is a refugee. The refugee is a sin of God." This specifically applies to our newly formed government, I must repeat, "The refugee is the sin of God and the shame of man. It's hard to understand, and it's easy to wrong him. '"I'd end up, when you run into people who run away from responsibility, stand in their way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2418	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stević Zvonimir, then a National MP, Nemanja Stefanović, then Milorad Buha, then Vukelić Nikola, then Petar Jojic, then Dusan Stupar, then Sekulić Vlado, then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2419	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure. - "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the National Assembly session until the quorum is secured. ''In Section 2, ''The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. ''For these very reasons, Mr. Chairman and President of the National Assembly, in your preliminary presentation at the election, you said that one of your main principles of your work would be efficiency in work. Back in the month you showed a very bad way of working and methods, we literally didn't do anything. I recommend, although it is not a fellow member of my political option, that you and your vice president and associates take some training with the former National Assembly President, Mr Markovic. Before Tomislav. [[Heading voices: Former is Tomislav Nikolic.]] In fact, there are so many more pressing obligations in this country of Serbia than what radicals are looking for, which I do not dispute, that the problem of the Grmovac is justified. But your obligation, as president of the National Assembly, is to ask the competent ministers, to ask the competent authorities here for information, to inform us not to spend two or three days solving the problem of the Grmovac. In this month, here, at this pay phone, we've heard everything and everything. However, I believe there is no greater, more difficult and painful issue in the state of Serbia and greater national and state interest than the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Here I hear representatives of national minorities and do not dispute that right, the right of national minorities, to have the same rights as all the peoples in the territory of the state in Serbia. But here I have heard, almost at all, that on the threshold of the XXI century, the most endangered human rights in the Serbian state is the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In the 20th century, we have no right to freedom, freedom of movement. This is about the right to electricity. And that problem needs to be solved. The property rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have not been resolved. At previous sessions here, we heard a colleague from the DS reportedly finding the threat, he said, that the human rights of Serbs in Kosovo were at stake. But it's just a finding. Human rights in the part of the property, the usurpation, are not resolved. Human rights, the right to work, where 40,000 people who worked in the economy left jobs, were not returned. Not to mention the right to return Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. In all these days, we have a statement from your friend, a friend of the democratic oligarchy, so it would be a fundamental order to define yourself and make a statement that he is euphorically and pompously in both Albania and Bulgaria, as if it were his private property. That's why, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, I have to tell you, we're interpreting this as some kind of deliberate delay and a tendency not to settle and a report by the negotiating team on the status and state in Kosovo and Metohija is not being delivered here. That is why I call on this member to set a break and consult with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and not with the professional public, in order to improve you in terms of handling. Here you have to play a game with the heads of Parliament. By the time I heard from you, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 225. – Parliament's question to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: ''What happened to the 17,000 Serbs in the previous month receiving some kind of increase in the minimum labour price of 9.000,00, and before that was 4.600,00, in order to get back to the past this month? "And as an explanation, there's not enough funds in the budget. It's not accurate information. Ministers race and say the Republika Srpska budget has never been more full.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2420	Thank you. Let me answer you, Article 98, after you have called on Section 1, says: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured. 'Cause there's a quorum to work on, there's no need to determine. Article 2 says: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. 'At this point, there's no need. The next MP is Nebojsa Stefanovic, then the People's MP Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2421	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to you for article 225, or 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To draw attention to both my colleagues and the public that what the MPs of the SRS are today is not just a problem for the Grmovac. The Grmovac here today is an example of how the state government of Serbia does not function, how the government is arrogantly treating its citizens, and how they are not interested in the fundamental problems of these citizens at all. It's not just a problem of electricity in the bush. It is the problem of all municipalities in Serbia. The problem of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, where I am, is also great, because, for example, the citizens are being destroyed by facilities, kiosks, temporary facilities from which they support their families, where they are regularly paying the state tax, all the benefits, communal taxes are still being taken from them. They are deprived of the right to feed their families. This is the only country where citizens, instead of establishing associations called "better", "better life", "progress", establish associations called "presence", because they are forced to seek a way to survive under this authority, to physically remain intact in this Serbia. Then how is my colleague Zvonko Markovic coming from Strpce? How is it for the citizens of Strpce who do not have regular electricity for eight years, who are not sure when they travel from northern Kosovo to Strpc through territory that is not controlled by the Serbian state, whether they will arrive alive and healthy in Strpce or not? Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and these citizens in Strpc and Leposavic and in all other places in Kosovo have the right to live, have the right to electricity and their children have the right to education and have the right to be safe and safe. In this Serbia, the state of Serbia is obliged to provide it. The citizens of Grmovci have the right to electricity, as all other citizens do. The essence of what we are saying here is that the essence of the existence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to ensure a better life for all citizens of Serbia, that not only are there to discuss those laws that correspond to the majority, but sometimes the pressure of this National Assembly on executive authority is ensured to do what the citizens chose to do, which is to make sure that they live better in this country, that all human rights are realised, not to close their eyes and that these citizens are kicking each other's organs, to say: that's not ours. Finally, it is time to establish responsibility in Serbia, for the state to start caring for its citizens, because they are citizens who pay taxes, who choose it, who live in this country. It is high time that this Assembly, like all other state authorities, began to care for the better lives of all citizens and respect for the country's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2422	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha, then the People's Messenger Nikola Vukelić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on Article 226 and I'm asking for an explanation from a special war crimes prosecutor who launched the investigation procedure against 12 civilians who committed a alleged crime in Lovas near Vukovar in 1991. The pre-criminal procedure in this case began in 2005. It was also conducted by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, under an agreement concluded by the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia and the two prosecutions during 2005, which both sides pledged to carry out all legal and all other actions aimed at finding criminals and exchanging documents. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution, whose prime minister, has delivered to our prosecutor's office and to all other state bodies, from the president of the state, prime minister, the justice ministry and all other state authorities who have to carry out a procedure to determine the crimes and determine all those facts relating to these crimes. However, none of these state authorities has made it possible to expose the crimes committed by the Croatian forces since 1990 in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. They're terrible crimes against Serbs, I have to count them here, it's sad, it's embarrassing, but we have to talk about these crimes here, in order for the public to know that this government is doing nothing, not even the state authorities. Crimes were committed in Sisak in 1990 and 1991, 610 Serbs were arrested, brutally killed and burned in the Sisak ironworks. During 1991-1992, in Osijek, he was killed in the most playful manner and thrown into the river Drava 185 Serbs. In Vinkovci 100. In the Marina village and the Paki plain, 1,200 people who were buried in 1991 were killed, unfortunately, only a partial number of corpses were removed, and no more than half of the corpses were removed today. There are terrible crimes, so as not to list Karlovac and the murder of soldiers in Karlovac, then the exorcision of Serbs from Zagreb, over 50,000, from Zadar 28.000, from Osijek over 20,000, etc. Unfortunately, this government, and especially the Dossov government since 2000, has done nothing to expose these crimes. I'm using, here, and this opportunity to call the war crimes prosecutor to tell us what was done to collect all the documents from our side. Not only the Republika Srpska government, but all Krajisnik associations also provided all state authorities with data on crimes. Unfortunately, none of the procedures in Croatia seem to have been conducted by us. What they're doing in Osijek around Glavas, it's just one funny story, and it's gonna take ten years, and then it's gonna be forgotten, and all the crimes that have been committed will be undiscovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2424	The People's Messenger Nikola Vukelić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 225 and 226. We heard this morning about this shameful verdict in The Hague tribunal that Milan Martic was sentenced to 35 years in prison. He was convicted because he was desperately trying to defend the Serb people, who then survived the greatest suffering. I remind you that no one on the Croatian side responded because of the action "Blash". And what crime may have been the best example of being exiled by Serbs from western Slavonia and sniveling asphalt to wash Serbian blood. Since they didn't make it either, then they completely changed the road with a new asphalt. The current president of Croatia, Stipe Mesic, says it was a professionally perfect police and military action. Now, this Stip Mesic, you're here to spread the red carpet and welcome him to Serbia, and you're harassing the citizens of the Grmovac and, of course, many others we haven't been able to make public of. You bulldoze them and you don't give them electricity. You don't let them live the life of a decent man. So it's not a single example. I will remind you, I come from Indjia and there is the president of the municipality Goran Jesic and commenting on the results of past parliamentary elections that the Serbian Radical Party in the territory of the Indji municipality has won convincingly with 44% versus 23% of how much the Democratic Party won, he said – well, we are satisfied with the results of the elections, we actually won. The Radicals were voted by 2,500 refugees who, meanwhile, received citizenship. I think there has been enough division in Serbia and there is no division of refugees and of natives. Don't share Serbia anymore and don't humiliate Serbian citizens indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2426	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2427	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I'm asking you a question and I'm asking you for answers, do you inform the government when you hold meetings and when you schedule meetings of the National Assembly? '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2429	What will you do to bring someone, if nothing, to the government's meeting?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2430	Mr. Jojic, you'll get an answer right away. The government is being informed, the point today is on the agenda called – Decision amendments to the Decision and selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government doesn't need to sit on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2431	Mr. President, you're obviously a rookie in this business and I don't blame you. I must remind you, first of all, that the ministers are obliged here to sit on a shambles in front of the MPs and be on duty here. The People's Messenger is God for the Minister, and here he must sit and answer when the MP asks him a question. He has to wait for someone to ask him a question. This is the highest authority in the state. This is a legislative body and ministers and the Prime Minister here must be found to give answers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we're going to get answers through the president of the National Assembly, the other day Mrs. K. Del Ponte said that all the Serbs who disappeared were killed. I ask the questions, Mr. President, and I ask you to give a notice to the public and citizens of Serbia and the MPs through the competent resolution ministries: "How many Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been killed and who killed them? Who answers and will those who killed them answer to war crimes against the Serbs? 'That's my question, and I'd like to ask you an answer. At the same time, I ask the question and ask that the public be informed: ''On what legal basis in 2000 1,300 Shiparian criminals and terrorists were released from prison in Zabela. "Secondly: "Who let those criminals go and who set Fjore Brovine free. Who then gave the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr. Kostunica, the right to pardon Fjore Brovina and free 1,300 terrorists? Are these terrorists charged and will they be tried? Are they criminals? 'And they committed to the Serbian people, well known, the greatest genocide?- I'm sorry. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we have such a situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm looking for another announcement, yet the public has been upset lately, ladies and gentlemen, a case at the Ojac municipal court when a tragic event occurred, where both the judge and the murdered lawyer were killed! I am also looking for an explanation from the Serbian Radical Party, above all, that it is necessary to determine why such an unkind event occurred. Who's responsible for this? The public is upset and people are wondering if they can come to court today or not. Second, do we have the safety of judges and prosecutors and parties? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the judicial reform to be carried out, among other things, but as you can see, Article 5. The law implementing the constitution stipulates that five judicial laws should be passed before then, and in particular to form a Constitutional Court, which has not worked since 2000. I had one case, two professors met me the other day and said, imagine, MP, we were in the Constitutional Court of Serbia at a judge's and asked him – well, good thing you're not solving this case. He has answered us, and I will not judge you out of spite. That's what the SRS thinks needs reforming, needs discipline, needs order, and knows who hairs and who carries water.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2432	Thank you. The questions you have asked will be forwarded to the resolution ministries in terms of parliamentary issues. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2433	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a problem with electricity in the village of Grmovac. I'm surprised that you who stand for Europe, for Euro-Atlantic integration, and there is normal for a man to buy a certain salary to provide him with both water and electricity and telephone. The place where the happy state where we are today, where the workers are out of a job, where their children have no perspective, that they can never again, as in the once happy times, hope to ever get an apartment, today the people decide to build a house with their own resources, what little they have, by building a house. In one serious state, the state itself would provide both water and electricity and telephone connection and everything. Citizens pay for it today, but bureaucracy behaves so they won't let it happen. I'll show you how different arches are in these 27 days. The newly elected Minister Milan Markovic, at the request of your party, from the Democratic Party, where you collected 30,000 signatures, past the law because it did not pass through the City Assembly, has made a decision to change one street. Here you have a legitimate demand for citizens who are just looking for the right to live, looking for electricity, you're not responding at all. You collected 30,000 signatures from all over Serbia! Tell me, out of those 30,000 signatures, how many citizens from Boulevard AVNOJ, how many citizens from that street are there? And that's not interesting to you. I'll explain it to you on two examples from Starship Community, where I live. Two years ago, you got into trouble with the construction mafia that you're leading. Destroy 5th Park, Boris Tadic comes, Gilas comes, Bogdanovic comes, even the leadership of the Democratic Party, promises citizens that it will solve the problem. For two years, the citizens have been struggling to end it. Students come from Florence, the entire international public and Europe rises, and Belgrade nothing, keep quiet. You're trying to make a five-six thousand square-square tycoon building in a 20-year-old park because you're only interested in the euro, the business, two thousand euros square. Three and a half thousand signatures were collected by citizens in seven days from that park where they live. No one has solved anything, nor has the Ministry, directed to Veli Ilic and Miljević. No one has solved it. The second problem that drags on Starar, five years old, is a trafo facility, the famous Belgrade 10. The time will come when you will hear how much credit the state of Serbia has taken. The loan was, six years ago, 23m euros. In six years, gentlemen dear, a million euros have been paid just a penny and we haven't used the loan. You want to build a trafo facility in a settlement that has over 30,000 inhabitants. A trafo facility at eight acres, 250 meters from primary school, is that normal in one orderly state? When we asked the Swedish who was in charge of whether you in Sweden would allow something like this to be done in the middle of the settlement, he said - we have no idea. So he can go to Serbia. You want to do everything you can to get the EPS ready to finish whatever it takes to sell. Gentlemen, when you came to power, you all said you'd work in the interest of the citizens. Well, you have to have the same principle, whether it's Thunderbolt, whether it's Starstar, whether it's Zvecan, explain to me what happened today. How someone dropped a bomb in Zvecan today. Nobody's saying anything about that here today. So you don't have the same archaic to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2434	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in connection with an article. 225 and 226. I also want to join the appeal and support the appeal of my colleagues from the SRS to finally bring that current to the village of Grmovac. It's a problem that's long been mentioned in public. I know that the Zemun Municipality has done its best, and financial assistance and legal aid, and in any way help all the citizens of the Boltites get electricity. It is obvious that this power or Mr. Komatina, who is the representative of this authority, has taken the right to decide whether or not the electricity will be involved, whether this authority wants us to convince the inhabitants of the village of Grmovac that our great Mr. Nikola Tesla has not yet been born and has not yet found electricity. They think the citizens of the Bolt should continue to live in the dark and believe that the current has never appeared, nor will it appear anywhere in the world. But I don't understand anything, if we all really want the benefit of the people, regardless of party membership or other belongings, why they're just arguing here, and this problem is being pointed out by the MPs of the SRS. I see no one from other parties has been involved in a debate over the Grmovers with any other explanation or counterarguments. Then I guess I'm fine with all of this, so it turns out that you're solidarity with the fact that there's never an electricity leak in the village of Boltz. Do you really want to punish them because they voted for the SRS? But then I'm afraid, since it's obviously some pressure on the citizens and residents of the Grmovac settlement, as Mr Markovic also said that the list was all voting for us, this is not the only case, I fear for all other seats across Serbia that voted for the SRS, that it will threaten everyone else and cut the power. In that case, more than half of Serbia would be in the dark. It should have some principle that we are not only looking at party membership, if it is a decision and if something that is truly legitimate is the right of all citizens, the right to live in some normal civilizational conditions, which is only 20 kilometers from Belgrade, then you, in particular, should now say the left hand side, to say your opinion, to give up narrow party perceptions, to say let it be done. Mr. President, Oliver Dulic, he must have some authority to invite someone from the Resorship Ministry to tell Mr. Komatini or Mr. Komadini, as someone here calls him, it seems to be obviously some gromada, to tell him to do what has been done long ago. I urge it to be done. And if we were to enter some of the irregularities that are happening now, I'm going to give you just one example of how citizens and other municipalities who voted for the SRS are being punished. In the Ledins, there was a case these days, and we SRS MPs showed up in Ledine's neighborhood. Otherwise, Ledine is a settlement in the majority of the Roma population, which is, I say, the best voting and electoral body of the SRS in New Belgrade. You all know about the case at Chukarica – asbestos settlement. Someone magically remembered that people who had already left the asbestos settlement had moved out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2436	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2437	I'm sorry, I'm done. The case is now being solved through the people of Ledin. You're kicking people out of 33 buildings, out of their houses, who have 12-13 members, they're all GSP workers, City Clean, who live here for 30-40 years. They submitted a request for legalisation because they had achieved and acted on the property as real hosts. Someone's spread a little bit, but most of it's a family with 12 members. All of a sudden, the police are coming, people are getting kicked out of the house. I went there in front of the SRS with my councilmen and my fellow MP from the SRS, we warned the citizens of Ledin. Mrs. Olga, who is 73 years old and diagnosed with cancer, was expelled. She spent all day and all night with things out there under the clear sky, so the messengers could return it to me the next day. I just cited this example, obviously it's about punishing people who are supporters of the SRS, but if that's really how it is looked, then you'll punish more than half of Serbia. I don't think our voters are as timid as you thought, and they don't think anyone's going to press them to vote differently. They know that we will always represent their interests, and let them be of honor to you that no one has joined in helping this action to give the citizens of the Thunderbolts electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2438	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the October 5th light was turned off in Serbia, total political darkness prevailed. In such darkness, it is very easy and very possible for some who are in the dark to emerge, so let's say, in a few years of consulting earnings and at 10, 11, 12m euros, we come to the division of Serbia in two parts. The first one to manage in that darkness, I remind you that I am buying villas on Dedinju, for 380,000 euros; it seems he has learned very well to hit, because such a villa under a million euros cannot be bought. Of course, there are electricity, water, phones, gas, cable TV and everything else. So, Dedinje, Senjak, these are destinations where the democratic and kletocrat government smiles. Serbian citizens have remained to manage, meanwhile, by living in their apartments, because they too can occasionally turn off the power to get used to them in the dark. Not to political, we're used to political already, but thank God, you can already see the light at the end of your tunnel, but you can see local and presidential elections that will be a turning point to finally get you off the Serbian coat of arms. The second part of Serbia, Tesla's compatriots, Tesla's countrymen, the countrymen who gave the world a boon of electricity, electricity, light, live literally in the real darkness 15km from the city centre. These are the people who escaped, managed to escape in front of Ustasha knives, Ustasha tanks, Ustasha airs, and counterpart Vukelic said just a moment what Ustashas were doing after that by washing highways and changing to avoid seeing Serbian blood. Today, someone named Komatana gives himself the right to lose power by not giving his signature. I remind Serbian citizens that in 1996 in Zemun, because we were there in power, we introduced the first sewerage into the Roma settlement. Today this village is absolutely urbanized. We also built a settlement in the Busias, brought electricity and water to it, and thank God you didn't get to shut them down, too. People live in their homes there today. We've secured 26 trafo stations, stairway trafo stations, to cover the bush and the blue horizon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2440	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2441	Just a few more words and I'm done. Those trafo stations are gone. Ask who the thieves who stole those transpo stations are. As far as this gentleman is concerned, I can't say that I don't insult Mr. Komatine, I'm informing him that he will be responsible very soon for all his misdemeanors. Now, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I demand that he resign! Just two more words about this recent arrest of Mr. Tolimir, on the Polish roads around Bratunac, along with a body bag. As long as that flossula goes, let him go to The Hague and prove justice. We saw justice in The Hague this morning. A man who's been tormented by stopping a Ustasha's nest, like locusts, fired three missiles - 35 years in prison. Nasera Oric, who slaughtered three and a half thousand Serbs in the area of Bratunci – two years in prison. By the way, to warn General Mladic and Mr Karadzic that they are walking the Polish roads around Bratunc, because I saw Kostunica, Tadic, Jocic in hunting uniforms with body bags, they went that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2442	Thank you. Following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it's not an injury, I'm reporting under Article 1, it's the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament. I briefly left the vice president's post, went out and had conversations and contacts with people in a very alarming situation, which we've been talking about all morning, in Zemun Municipality, or in the village of Grmovac. I appeal first of all to you, Mr. President, and then to all of you who are sitting, and you are members of the Democratic Party, because you both accepted a woman named Radmila Hrustanovic as deputy mayor, not to play with the patience of these people anymore. This has been going on for days. These people, while you're sitting here, you don't even know what the weather is like out there, and in the meantime, it's starting to fall into a big city and there's a big storm in downtown Belgrade, and you might think that the sun is still out, and you don't know that people are without electricity. We've been talking to you all morning, and we've been bringing this problem to you for days, and now they're, some of them, in the Zemun Municipality building, looking for help, and they're watching what's going on here and if you're reacting. They know that they are protected by the Serbian Radical Party, that we cannot force the people of the Ministry, if you don't, and that unfortunate Hrustanovic, who, you can see how bad and evil that woman is, literally said, so she addressed the President of the Municipality, Mrs. Pop-Lazic – you provided water in the Ugrinovci, where otherwise Mr. Slavisa Topalović and the board of the Assembly of the Municipality that appears, you provided a water network, so provide the people in Grmovac with electricity. Water and electricity, you know that, and you in the organs of local self-government, and consent has nothing to do with each other. Zemun municipality six months ago, now reminded me of Slaviš, with no dinar of the City's participation, although such a budget of the pub is directly involved by the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, therefore, the Zemun Municipality itself provided funds for the water network in Ugrinovci. As far as the bushes are concerned... Mrs. Comic, do you have a problem? First you sit politely, so don't sit in a parliamentary bench, and secondly, don't bother with me or anyone around here, but go, call your friend Hrustanovic and tell her that people don't have electricity. As your children expect when you come home tonight to have electricity, weaving and the children of these refugees expect to have electricity, to be able to learn, that they can normally prepare their mothers lunch, wash them, and it's nothing funny. I can't believe at all that you, with some consciousness and a certainty that you want to go to Europe, that everything is nice to you, that you're getting your pucks kicked by Rehn and Solana, and at the same time they're taking away Kosovo and Metohija in 2007, laughing and watching, and you can't watch people without electricity. I really don't understand you. Tell her I don't call her by any other name because unlike her, I'm rude and I don't care, I'm so messed up and I'm wearing makeup about the problems of ordinary people, and she's the mayor, and these people are looking for elemental rights for life, and that water and electricity, if the martyr doesn't know it, have nothing to do with it. The agreement is not given in Zemun Municipality, but in the City where it is currently changing the mayor and the competent ministries. And you, please, let me see which of you who are in power, at two o'clock, before he goes to make a phone call, to see what it is, but to run to the restaurant for lunch. I guess you have so much conscience on you. I don't know who you're calling. You don't have any influence. It's not the influence of Hope Kolundji, and it's yours, I think you're calling someone, but at least it's institutional influence, and what you told me to sit down, you know, when you stop for this pay phone we're at the same height when you sit down. Therefore, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2444	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then National MP Slavisa Topalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia primarily ask the President of the National Assembly to explain to the MPs why a good part of the ruling coalition is not in the hall and why there is no representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the hall, although the SRS MPs of 10 hours, therefore, are full of four hours talking about the burning problems of Serbia, the problems of the citizens of Grmovac, the problems of Kosovo and Metohija and the shameful verdict of The Hague tribunal towards Milan Martic. Mr. President of the National Assembly, I suggest you interrupt the session of the National Assembly, give a break, carry out all the necessary consultations and talks with officials of the City of Belgrade, with the officials of the ministry responsible for the activities of the infrastructure and with the officials of the Ministry of Energy, that the problem of the citizens of Grmovac, who do not have electricity in the 21st century, be resolved today. The MPs of the SRS will not stop talking about it until you, the president of the National Assembly, along with other competent authorities, are already responding today, because we expect the problem of the citizens of Grmovci to be resolved today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2446	The word has a National MP, Slavisa Topalovic. (Milutin Mrkonjic: Here, at 2 o'clock there will be a Committee on Construction and I am looking for the first power today in Grmovac, just let us stop it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2447	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, we welcome the fact that you care about the citizens of Throats. Make an appointment to the board! As long as they don't get the necessary consent to plug power into the Grmovac settlement, we won't, of course, stop, because that, already once, has to get in the way. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226 needs to be answered on these issues today, Mr. Chairman, regarding obtaining consent to the connection of electricity to the citizens of Grmovac. As long as we don't get the information on the connection of electricity in the case of the Grmovac, we'll ask for an explanation from the Minister of Energy. Why doesn't Mr. Komata sign consent? Why does Radmila Hrustanovic approve of boycotting the citizens of Grmovac? Why is it that a man who, unfortunately, is sick, Mr. Bogdanovic, the mayor, why did he say they were savages for those men with the shrubs? When you came to power in 2000, why did you want those settlements, the Grmovac, the Busier, to tear down? You wanted to tear down that people's houses, you from a democratic bloc. Because our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, helped that people when they were the worst. Friends know each other in trouble, not in an election campaign and in front of elections, like you, Democrats, do. The municipality of Zemun allowed a ransom at low prices, so that the people of the refugee colonies could be taken care of, i.e. The SRS allowed that nation to provide itself with a piece of land that was then available to all of those refugee columns that your friends had expelled. The elections and arrival of DOS to power ended the formation of the settlement, allowing entirely basic conditions for living in part of the infrastructure in the village of Grmovac. The fact that you are today preventing people from getting consent to electricity, you from the DSS, the encrypted and van of the party and NGOs, is so inhumanely and incorrectly towards any citizen of Serbia, especially in the case of Grmovac, because citizens live 20 km. from the centre of Belgrade in the 21st century without electricity. It's a shame, it's your democratic struggle against the SRS over the torment of the citizens of the Grmovac. The citizens of the shrubs are now in the hall of the Zemun Municipality. I welcome them on this occasion and I advise them to stay there as long as they please, they are our dear guests, we will do everything we can to help them get consent to the connection of electricity, as they have so far, and they know it well. The DSS and DS won't sign consent! You are expelled from your hearth and now your Democrats are not giving you electricity!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2448	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2449	They don't give you electricity to drive you away. Where to go, I ask you, your houses are ruined, your hearths are burned, you've been driven hundreds of miles away, and now someone's driving you away. First they threaten to tear down, and then they don't give basic living conditions, i.e. electrical energy. - Where to next? Well, don't 2,000 citizens and their children Bolts have the right to live? Well, because they're voting for the SRS, 70 of them just gave a vote for the SRS. Is that worth torturing and harassing that people in the village of the Bolts?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2450	Mr. Topalovic, you've broken again and entered the fifth minute, so I'm really asking you to finish. Report to the Rules of Procedure again, and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2451	One more sentence, and I'll go on again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2452	Of course, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2453	Do you share the people by political definition? Mr. Kostunica, it is not worth it to you to cut off the power, so that you may remember the citizens of the shrubs, for by nature you are uninformed. Here, I'm informing you to connect the power to the citizens of the Bolts. They are not guilty of having the right to live a life worthy of every citizen. You have no right to torture them without electricity, and you can solve this agony with a telephone call. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2454	Thank you. The People's Messenger Predrag Stosic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. I request a notice from the President of the Assembly, whether you are familiar and whether you are informed of the conclusions of five positions that were reached on June 7th. At an emergency session of SO Bujanovac by the Albanian majority, which refers to the reportedly poor state of security in southern Serbia. It's an incident staged by Albanian terrorists. Their intention is to accuse the police, the military and the state of Serbia themselves of disrupting the good international relations that are now in southern Serbia. This certainly does not happen at the moment when the Kosovo and Metohija issue is resolved. You know the views of Albanian separatists in southern Serbia regarding the so-called Presevo Valley, which never existed under that name. I warn you, the ruling majority, if you remain silent about this problem, that you will bear responsibility for everything that will continue to happen in these areas where international relations are now very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2456	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2457	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind all of us of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that some of us often call upon. It concerns respect for the dignity of the National Assembly and all of us MPs. I would ask the President of the National Assembly for any discussion in any MP to demand that any minister, whether the Prime Minister, or the President of the Assembly, resolves by telephone a dispute that he considers in the state administration a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The fact is that we have a serious problem, such as giving consent to an authority elder in the City of Belgrade City Assembly, with the condition that people in the populated town of Zemun municipality have, and I have no reason not to believe a single word the SRS MPs said. It is either an abuse committed by a competent person in the Belgrade City Assembly, or it is the outcry of false facts. In either case, it is unacceptable, however, that by speaking to the National Assembly, anyone who is in the Assembly, the Government, the ministry, because we all share concerns not only about the people we talk about today, but also with others living in Serbia in similar conditions, you are asking that telephones solve things. It is a selective application of the law, because one political party, which is completely legal and legitimate, takes one difficult topic as a subject, which is legal and legitimate again, its election campaigns, but nothing more and nothing less than the topic of the election campaign, which, I repeat, is legal and legitimate. In doing so, it cannot be called for a violation of the obligations, rights and duties they have in the administration's bodies, regardless of whether they are in ministries, in the Belgrade City Assembly or in the Zemun municipality assembly. With a desire to solve the problem completely clearly, therefore, whether it is self-will and abuse of the position of anyone who is responsible for it in the City Assembly, or whether it is a certain lack of documentation and something that we can turn a blind eye to, and whether or not the electricity people still get, but then all of us who are calling for honor and honesty should say that: close your eyes, we care that people still get electricity, regardless of what we all know is not by law, that we have a problem with project documentation and that we have failures. What we want to build together here, as the ruling majority and the opposition, is strictly, not selectively, respecting the law and applying the law in practice. If the MP from this pay phone says: we have the power, which we have indisputably, as a prominent and influential elected in front of citizens and citizens of Serbia and political parties, and if they say – don't worry, we can press to make a phone call that solves everything, then the question from this pay phone is what it is we stand for. Do we advocate applying the law equally for all or for those we know, who are strongest and who can force others to make phone calls and one call to solve everything. It's not going to be good if we go along with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2458	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, then the MP of the people Milos Aligrudić, and we take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2459	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no more honorable and greater obligation than the one your citizens give you in the elections and when they choose you as the most legislative body to protect their interest. As someone calls on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 1 regulates that MPs act in accordance with their rights and obligations in the building of the National Assembly. My right and my obligation, even though I am not from the Municipality of Zemun, was born and lived in Kragujevac, to protect the interests of every citizen, wherever he lives, and especially at this time refugees in the bush. This isn't about closing your eyes in front of the fact that it's "wow, it's not about any paperwork." Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens and the Grmovac and all of Serbia, this is pure political terrorism of DS, Radmila Hrustanovic and DSS. You, gentlemen of the thieving DOS coalition in the city of Belgrade and Serbia, are a thorn in the eye of the Zemun Municipality, because in the municipality of Zemun, first of all, under the authority of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and then you devastated it from 2000 to 2004, under his authority, every man who had to leave, under Ustasha terror, his eternal hearth, was honored by the fact that there is one such man, now in The Hague, who defends their interests. He gave them a piece of land, that they had a place to live. Stone by stone, brick by brick, people lift you up. What are you talking about? These settlements didn't exist at all. I must inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that this cynicism and their insolence have gone so far that Vojislav Kostunica, instead of being here today, in the National Assembly, because it is also his business obligation to tell us where the report of the negotiating team on Kosovo and Metohija, has prepared himself to go with the new minister of education, and that is the one universeman, otherwise the idiot who tells him everything whenever he's told him, Loncharham, goes to Athens to set up a rock foundation for school. Do you know who's funding the school and who's doing the whole project? The municipality of Zemun, not the government of Vojislav Kostunica, not Loncar and Vuksanovic before it. You think the citizens don't know that. It is fortunate that there is this congregation speaker, and it is not a violation of dignity, but you are insulting the dignity of those ordinary people who just want to have a normal life, have electricity and have the opportunity to have their children school, live a life like your children and children who have electricity today. Don't replace the thesis all morning. This morning, Bojana Aleksic, an MP, is a spokesman for Hrustanovic, and says, "Here, I'll give the information." Who is she to give information? Information about what we are looking for in the National Assembly can only be given by the President of the National Assembly. Don't let five more of your EPS spokesmans or Hrustanovic show up here, salting our minds. No, we want official information and that's our job. It's not about whether it's the work of the local government or the city administration. It is one problem that citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in Zemun, in Grmovac. We want to get rid of it, and we're going to insist on it all the way, so you don't want to have any further session or debate until this problem is solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2460	The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2461	Article 104(1) in relation to Article 100. I guess what we've been listening to today is a serious problem this afternoon. If it wasn't, that's not what we'd be talking about. That's gotta be the way it is. However, from 10 this morning until now, we have spent time using the right to report to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I advertised Article 104(1). When it comes to the dignity of the National Assembly, something else must be taken care of. I've never disputed the right for anyone to exercise their rights in the Rules of Procedure. This can always be done and I welcome such a personal decision by every MP, so as not to make a statement that is very important, even calling for Article 226 by asking for information and information from the president of the National Assembly. And it's in place. However, I think we should consider here what is, in fact, the job of this home, and the job of this home is to pass laws and prepare for that role. Of course, I think that everything that's been heard here is worth the attention and that every MP who's reported to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, using this right to appeal to his right to Article 226, is also in place, but we must also have some sense of measure in all this. Because when we talk about dignity and our rights, we have to make sure that each of us has some rights, so that we can only use our own rights to the extent and to the extent that we do not insult the rights of others. If one political party thinks it can put a point by reporting to the Rules of Procedure 50 times to highlight a burning problem, which I do not want to dispute, it is fine, but then these same MPs have to take care of and that there are other MPs in this National Assembly who respect that there is a problem, which I am now confirming, who also want to work on the agenda that is set, to make sure that there is something on today's agenda, that there is some point of the agenda that has never even begun, precisely because the MPs have been called on a continuous basis in the Rules of Procedure, that they spend one of those same things, 40 times one and the same thing. So, not to dispute, you can do 400 times the same, so the debate in this house can take time to ask God how many, but the question is whether then I have the right, on behalf of these other MPs, to say that we heard it, that we understood, that I suppose the president of the National Assembly heard and understood, that we would assume that we would get one piece of information about it at one point, in some way, and that I guess a lot. Do we have the right for others to continue to work on the agenda so that this very congregation performs that function that is why it is called upon? If it performs the function for which it has been convened in this way it can best and help citizens, because we cannot imagine that this assembly will help its basic function to citizens and to this society if it discusses individual cases in six or seven hours. A particular case, however difficult it is, however problematic it is, and imagine, if we worked every day, then I should ask the same citizens who watch this transmission whether they can realistically expect this National Assembly to solve any particular problem. You know that's not possible. I appreciate that one political party can use every business way to get word, to reach a pay phone, to simply express its views or to express public concern about a problem and to advertise itself, but you must bear in mind that other parliamentary groups, and other MPs have the same right that you have. Now, imagine if we all acted that way. Mrs. Radet asked, from the scene, because the viewers can't hear it, who forbids us to act like one. Well, you know what, he's defending us with elemental decency, because if we were to act that way, we'd be in a situation where nothing in the white world ever ends or does. You, of course, can continue to act like this, but we will try to make contact when it makes sense, and if you insist we can talk about what is not on the agenda, but then we are also violating that provision of the Rules of Procedure that says that the MP must always say what is on the agenda, and that is simply not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2462	Thank you. I've been setting a break for an hour, and it's 15.10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2463	We'll continue our afternoon work. I'm concluding a unique search. After the search has been carried out, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of the parliamentary groups... (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ....................................................................................................... amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) We move to the next item of the agenda. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) Individual search. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Let me just read it. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS (Verica Radeta, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'll just read it, I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure right away. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) You have received a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, submitted by the President of the National Assembly. National MP Nenad Milic, deputy president of the parliamentary group "Liberal-Democratic Party", wrote down a proposal to elect MP Cedomir Jovanovic as deputy member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, allocated in proportion to the time for each parliamentary group. Let's see who answers the word, according to the Rules of Procedure? You've got a list. I don't have a list. The Belief of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2464	This is the harshest possible violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Albian, we're not idiots. We are the people's MPs who do the work here, which is why the citizens sent us to this home. If you don't know what the function of the MP is, say it nicely in some next election campaign. But I don't think you know it very well, but you have now knowingly and deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure, knowingly and deliberately deceived the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. You said you didn't have a list of MPs who signed up to speak in the Rules of Procedure. That list exists, it's been created in order, as MPs have reported. If you don't have it, Mr. Albianic, call Dulic to give you that list or take another break, so go consult him. You're on purpose now, and I know why and we all know why you ran one point and another point of the agenda, to get the chance to start before a certain time and this third point. We all know what your intentions are. We have told you and we remain on this, until you resolve the problem of the Grmovac, the electricity in Grmovac, we, the MPs of the SRS from this place will talk about it. Call Energy Minister Aleksandr Popovic, call the previous Energy Minister, Radomir Naumov. Radomir Naumov participated in talks on joining electricity in Grmovac. He's the one who knows the conditions are met. He is the one who promised, were present, I repeat, I have said this already and representatives of the City of Belgrade Assembly, and the people of Elektrodistribution and regardless of all these circumstances, the people in Grmovac do not have electricity just because the plots for the construction of family houses sold to them by the Municipality at the time when the president of the municipality was Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. It's your political revenge, your political terrorism, suffered by the citizens of the Grmovci. You have just done, and I could freely call it political terrorism, such a beating of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Albianic, I remind you that the 100th first position that says – "The People's Parliament, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the President of the National Assembly the word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. ''You were that speaker, you started talking, even though I was already saying the word 'Operator' and showing you the Rules of Procedure, you finished one point, you crossed the second point, you also wouldn't let me talk about the Rules of Procedure. I insist now, Mr. Albianic, that the Rules of Procedure speak to MPs in the list and order that was made before this break at 1400 hours. If you don't know where it is, call the secretary, call the president, call your grandmother, aunt, anyone who can help you, if you can't do it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2465	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, for these kind words to the chairman, but it was not my intention, nor did I violate the Rules of Procedure. I didn't have a list like that, and I don't even know that's the list that's being made. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milosav Milickovic. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I insist on the list and order of MPs, who signed up to speak according to the list. It is not about whether there is a MP or not, but I insist that it be spoken in order of the MPs who have applied. If you don't know where your list is, find it. ) I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. What are you talking about? Are you crazy? ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Milosav Miličković, and then the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. There are still a few MPs before Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2467	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever it takes some dirty shop to do that there's Mitch Albianic behind. It has indeed become a practice. But this cowardly egg, which the President of Parliament has planted on us, has indeed been noticed and there is no need to serve it anymore. This was an introduction. Please give me back my time. I report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the breach of Rules 226, as well as infringements of Rule 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 21(3) says any discrimination against Serbian citizens is prohibited. What the SRS MPs are talking about today, as of 10.00 hours, is a typical example of violations of human and basic human rights of citizens, in this case, the Zemun Municipality. If that wasn't an accident, we've been witnesses since 1996, when the SRS came to power in Zemun Municipality, then, to remind you of the Republic government was in the hands of the SPS and some others, and the city government held the coalition "Together". At that time, as now, the citizens of the Zemun Municipality were indeed faced with a kind of terror. This last thing that happened, since yesterday, has gone beyond the scope of the SRS MPs, with no other way to turn to the citizens and demand the protection of the rights of their citizens, is done in this way. To remind you, the City of Belgrade Department of Urbanism is a centralized institution, which has nothing to do with municipalities. That's something else in line with the frauds the DOS was talking about back in 2000, so-called. decentralisation of government in Belgrade. That doesn't even make d. In addition, in the wake of the 2007 election campaign, actually in January of the month, the president of Serbia... (President: Excuse me, what does the election campaign have to do with our agenda? These are delegations. You'll understand, you're a mathematician. You'll understand, be patient and don't take away my time. So, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's President Boris Tadic, in a pre-election campaign in Rakovica Municipality, on 2 or 4, I'm not sure, he set up an assembly house, allegedly of his own money, and bought for a family that was displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, which is commendable. That house doesn't have any papers, but it's connected to the power grid, which is also commendable and we support it. So, what Carla del Ponte would say... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... We want the current to be released into the Meat Community of the shrubs, and how does she say, "When? - Now! 'Just now it takes Boris Tadic to come and nod like that. Ladies and gentlemen, all power in the City of Belgrade is concentrated in the Democratic Party. The unfortunate Komata is a member of the DSS, which is a pawn in this government, or city government, and that is common knowledge. But these dirty jobs... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Here comes Mrs. Comić... (President: Time's up, come in next time. Just two more sentences, so I don't answer again. Mrs. Comic gives us a lesson here and leaves, and for the citizens who follow this transmission, I must stress that there are 15 MPs from the DSS, a dozen from the DSS, and Aligrudic, who also gives us a speech, is no longer here. He's probably in a restaurant. So, to go back to the legalism of Mrs. Komic – as it was done at the Miljakova springs, so let it be done in Grmovac, it is a model.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2468	Time. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Stupar, Mr Avramović, Mr Sekulić, and Mrs Radeta, etc. Here you go, Mr. Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2469	Mr. Vice President, this is embarrassing behavior after the break, and you didn't participate while the president of the assembly held the session, you weren't present at all. So, before the break, before anything else, there were ten other MPs who advertised the Rules of Procedure, and it's inappropriate that the function you are now performing... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise, Mr Stupar? ) Article 100, Article 104. - the dignity of the National Assembly... (President: We all stand together for the dignity of the National Assembly. ) The dignity of the National Assembly implies that when the session ends, the session continues where we broke up. Did we interrupt it when it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Have I been reported, fourth, after a break, to speak again? You are entering the Assembly, 10 MPs present in the Assembly and continuing to hold a session. You're not authorized to do that. No one has chosen you to act like this. And Mr. Dulic isn't acting the way he did in his exposé. He's supposed to be sitting with us here for six hours. He finds a replacement. Do MPs from any party here have a replacement? So, you can rotate, like in sports, one comes out, the other comes out, and all day long you're holding the Assembly. It's inappropriate for you to exercise authority here. Yes, that's funny to you, you can yell "theme" and everything, but the citizens of Serbia are watching your relationship. [[Telephones from bench: Theme]] You don't have the same relationship. The theme is, behaviour in the Assembly of Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, president of the Assembly, respect for MPs, dignity of the National Assembly, respect for MPs as they speak, that's the theme, gentlemen, that's why the citizens here sent us. We were not delegated by the citizens of the Assembly to the hatred you have for the SRS in this way. [[Applause]] You don't have to love us at all, but you have to respect us and respect us, as we didn't mind when you did in such a way for a change in the street – in two days you solved it, and for electricity we have to argue here for 15 days. Then it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Why? Because that's what the SRS parliamentary group is looking for. What Europe are you talking about? What principles are you talking about? Yours is the basic principle where you build what you're going to do, where you're going to steal what you're going to steal, whether the location is going to be 6,000 squares. Yeah, that's right. You want me to give you an example of what your people used to be in power in the Starship Community were like? There is no citizen of Belgrade who has not seen "Monter" and to say where "Montera" is today walling around Belgrade. Are you saying that's not true? You mean the locations you brought back from the Savawedding, from other municipalities. Be calm, patient, constant, for everything we say behind the pay phone, we make arguments, but you can't behave here like this, even though you have most of them, to carry out terror. (President: Time.) I'll finish it right now. The Parliament's dignity is to allow every MP to speak, not after a break suddenly in a magical way, no lists, no discussions. You can do that without us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2470	That's exactly what I'm doing. I want to allow every MP to answer his word. The only thing that's going on all day is, it's half past four, we're reporting from the Rules of Procedure. As far as Article 104 is concerned, Indeed, I appeal to all that we respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Are you asking for the People's Assembly to declare that in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Avramović called for the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2471	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for the second time, I don't know on which list you've now called me, first or second. It is Article 105(1), which is said to be in order at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Old Presidents. I am not a political size, I am a young man, to defend a more experienced MP than I am, in this case colleague Natasa Jovanovic, but from where I sit, in the back of the hall, I have the opportunity to see and hear how they earn and how DS MPs behave. That young gentleman sitting there, I don't know his name or his last name, I say, young because in terms of political action he looks young and acts young, more precisely inexperienced, because we in the SRS don't share people in the old and the young, but on the honest and unfair. I warn you, President of the Assembly, to stick to Rules of Procedure and Articles 105, because, simply, inappropriately tossing on the left of this speaker is tolerated when you are chairing, and when it happens by chance on the right, it is not tolerated, you are calling on time, Rules of Procedure, dignity, etc. The second thing, we were taught here, Mrs. Comic and Mr. Aligrudic, about dignity. It is unclear for me that after so many rivers of emotion poured out to elect the president of the assembly, when the candidate was Tomislav Nikolic, each other's differences, they are talking to anyone today about dignity. After such revotes, spitting amongst themselves in the coalition, today they talk to us, Serbian radicals, who had the same attitude then and now, about dignity. These are things that are not directed from your political aspect to us. It can only happen the other way around. We did not lick what we spit, as Mr. Aligrudic's party did. It wasn't us who did it, it was Mr. Aligrudić with his MP group. So, when it comes to dignity in the Republic Parliament, look at what DS MPs are doing, look at how many there are and how they behave when it comes to just one ordinary supply of electricity to a settlement. Come out, and this young gentleman and any of you, here you are, the head of the parliamentary group – Mrs. Nado, come out here and tell me, do you agree with what Mr. Komatina said and the deputy mayor: go to Zemun Municipality, let the radicals give you electricity. Do you agree with that attitude, since you're acting like one? Now, you agree, you come out, so say you agree, that citizens know that, not to demonstrate the phone, like, call someone to solve it for you! What's that look like? It's dignity, and you're giving us a lesson. That's really pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2472	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2473	Yeah, time. Now it's about time, three minutes and five seconds, there's not that much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2474	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Sekulić and then MP Vjerica Radet appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered in the first part, and then Mr. Albianic magically disappeared that list, reporting under Article 226. – I request an explanation from Mr. President of the Assembly, whether he contacted anyone about the village of Grmovac or contacted someone from the resolution ministry, to give us an explanation of why nothing has yet taken place around the village of Grmovac. Is now the interest of the President of the Assembly who said that it will be advocated for the cultural level, that the cultural level of this assembly will rise, but Mr. President, you may spend only half an hour in the Assembly, and then whenever there is something to be done or to hide the lists quickly, Mr. Albianic put in some ungrateful role, and he is an all-civil associate and accepts all these dirty actions to play for you. I'm interested now, and I'm continuing to talk about the bush, and I know there's almost been an explanation that the city doesn't have that kind of money to finance that part. Now I would really like to ask, if we don't have money for that part, which is a shame, that people and now live without electricity, to explain to me, here, sir, you're in charge here, and it concerns the question of the New Belgrade Municipality, so Mr. Ozegovic, who is also a member of the DS -- that there's no money to include electricity in people, and we've been witnessing that in the last month that the country has been driving away from Usce for the 'Rollingstones' concert, I have nothing against the concert, and I'm going to go to that concert, if someone paid all that, and that's what the money is being paid for, and at the end of the concert, the profits, only the organisers are going to get the money, and for the connection of electricity to people has no money. I'm interested in whose patronage, Mr. President of the Assembly, there's some things you have money for, and for some you don't. Whether because Mr. Ozegovic, who is funding the party's work in New Belgrade, is in power in New Belgrade, has money for them. How is there money for the destruction of temporary small facilities in New Belgrade, along with eight patrol services and the intervention brigade, which is coming, and the funds are being allocated, to allow these bars to collapse, to set up kiosks and trades of new models for 'Futura Plus', Canet Subotic? The entire competition in New Belgrade was set up for one legal person, at the expense of the people who lived and who had a contract with "Politics" in franchise for 99 years, paying all the taxes they were to pay. They destroyed them all, which they succeeded, until the people organized themselves into the Resistance association, stopped to defend their existence, what they live on, to stop the lawlessness in New Belgrade. And someone apparently had a huge profit and a great benefit, so he transferred the competition-related intelligence from SO New Belgrade to a special space. Where's Mr. Alexander Stamenkovic who left 36.8 million losses? I've been promoted to Director of Public Housing! For what good work it is. Now he doesn't know, or New Belgrade, how he's going to reduce that loss and wash off that loss. The SRS have always fought for citizens' rights, and it is normal that the rights of the citizens of Grmovac, and these are the fundamental rights, to have electricity. For everything else there is, where your parties are now in the coalition and there's work to do. I see there are no ministers, no Mr. Aligrudic, no Mr. Sutanovac, probably they exchanged hooligans among themselves as athletes after the game.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2476	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2477	Here, I'm done. I think they've probably switched sports equipment since they're happy with the result. I'm just curious about how Mr. Sutanovac stepped into those hooligans, or Mr. Aligrudic's hooligans, if his confectious number is much higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2478	Thank you. In accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, I am informing the National Assembly that they will continue their work after 18 hours, until the end of the period that is now on the agenda. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mrs Verica Radeta, and then the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2479	Mr. Dulic, at the beginning of this afternoon's work, I insisted on Article 100(1). I also accused Mr Albianic of violating Article 100 because he did not give priority to the MPs, as the Rules of Procedure foresees, to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Albianic assured me that he was not responsible for this, but that you did not leave a list of registered MPs who applied in the afternoon before the break. It is obvious that Mr Albianic was right, because I see that you are now calling MPs who are now reporting, and you are not calling Zorica Stevanović, Nikola Savic, Milan Avramovic and Dusan Stupar, not after this announcement, but after the one before this break. Mr. Dulic, if you are already willing to run a session for you, then you are obliged to meet him as long as it has arrived and what is on the agenda, what is said and which MPs have been reported to speak, not just like that, and then Albianic is neither guilty nor obliged to be here the target of the attack of the SRS MPs. It's all actually supposed to be directed to you. So it's amazing that the MPs of the congregation are so bothered by our debate today, that they react this way, and I really can't believe that someone can laugh when it comes to the problems that we're talking about today. In particular, I can't believe he's laughing and throwing out an MP, who's usually a councilman in the Zemun Municipality, when it's said that part of the Zemun municipality, the inhabited place of the bush has no electricity. Just to correct my colleague from a moment ago, they don't need any money to connect electricity to the Grmovac, it's all paid, all the people paid, the Zemun Municipality paid for the rest. So it's not about anyone giving any money, no. All we have to do is sign consent and get people to join the power. I want to remind you of this nervousness of yours why we've been saying all day that the Grmovac has no electricity, we'll talk further, just to remind you when you of the DOS government took over in 2000, that you spent the entire afternoon talking about the Rules of Procedure and talking about the variety of cookies in the congregation restaurant. You remember, Mr. Gavrilovich, and you were then?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2480	Thank you very much. MP Zoran Krasic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2481	I am not advertising the injury, but I point to a violation of the Rules of Procedure that has been going on continuously since the beginning of today's work, which refers to Article 104. Rules of Procedure and Rule 28, which regulates matters under the authority of the President of the National Assembly. But to go back to what appears most often today, and that's the word "worthyness." The dignity of the National Assembly can be interpreted as the dignity of a state body, but it can also be interpreted as dignity in ideal parts of 1/250, and it concerns each individual who is in this room. Let me remind you, we have a agenda item at this session regarding the Civil Protection Act. I must draw attention to you that the greatest protector of citizens is, however, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which must make sure that all laws are in line with some normal aspirations of a civilized society, respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In this respect, I probably need every place and every moment to demonstrate greater concern for the protection of human rights and for the protection of the interests of our citizens. This is precisely because the issue of this settlement in the Municipality of Zemun is not something that happened yesterday or the day before, it's something that has its own history, has its continuity. I don't want to repeat, but what really violates dignity and these congregations as organs and each of us here as an individual is the fact that the people who rebelled are looking for someone's right, you'll certainly agree that if 11 years of not having this elemental right to use electricity, then it's a legitimate revolt, and if you have in mind that we've had a chance to hear that these people who protest in continuity are recommended by the authorities to direct their protest to Zemun Municipality, because – let the radicals introduce electricity to you, let the radicals end it for you. Why? Because, apparently, some in the village voted for the SRS or perhaps were SRS supporters. Now, if you'll excuse me, then I must draw attention to the fact that this is the way in which article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it closes its eyes to a kind of discrimination based on political grounds. Someone now has to suffer some harmful consequences, not because of the law, not because of the regulations, not because of something else, but because of the assumed idea of someone in the City Assembly that these people who address SRS are sympathisers. That's why we're talking here today. We do not allow discrimination on a political basis. We'll talk and we'll warn. Why? Because it's the highest form of discrimination that's happening in our country right now. Just to remind you, because of political belongings or because someone suspects they're a party's sympathiser, they've been losing a working relationship here for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2482	Thank you. National MP Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2483	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would probably have had a number of parliamentary questions that were put on the agenda, and we had some important issues today, but that doesn't mean that these are the only important issues that are being raised through violations of the Rules of Procedure. Here, as part of the questions raised, I would probably ask the issue of an extraordinary session in Bujanovac, which is mentioned here, and the competence of local self-government to deal with elementary life issues, especially when the president of the municipality is at risk in a bombing, bombs have been dropped in the yard and it is quite right to seek responsibility from the authorities. I don't see where separatism is. Which is why this political daltonism is present even among the MPs. It simply cannot distinguish between basic things, when it comes to the right of MPs here to deal with basic life problems and attacks and disqualifications or to withdrawing that elemental right from this highest place of disqualification like what we have heard today through separatism and other labels that have long been known. Even around the Bujanovac, since it often stretches here, not only about the Bujanovac, but also about the whole area, the Presevo Valley or the Presevo Valley, whatever they call it, is one area for me. As far as this area is concerned, I am interested in launching a debate in this assembly, argued, why the programme of the two governments, where we have arrived and what needs to be done. I am the first to ask this congregation to raise these important questions. I think the essence of my reaction is involved in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2484	Thank you. MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2485	I'm advertising Article 104. You know, when someone who sits least in this room, and especially from a ruling coalition like Mr. Aligrudic, shows up, runs one minute and comes out and like, I didn't know that he's a teacher by profession, apropo that he's not a teacher by profession, and here he gives us a lecture, like we're kids in school benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2486	There's no transmission. I'm taking two minutes off. [[After break – 16,00]] We'll continue after a short break. Mr Gojko Radic continues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2488	You know when someone who sits least in this congregation hall comes in and then we can tell or there's a spy and he's passing it on or completely uninformed comes in here and insults, giving a lecture to the MPs. Thus, as the same member of the Rules of Procedure repeatedly repeats itself, there is a constant violation of the Rules of Procedure, one and the same thing is spoken from this pay phone, and that this informant or spy, but as it comes from the party of the uninformed, that he listened a little better, there were other topics. There was also a topic about the robbery in Subotica, committed by his technical government, Vojislav Kostunica, and then he would have heard that it was not only the subject of the Grmovac. Here, and Riza was discussing the subject of Preshev, and then he would have seen if it wasn't just one and the same subject of the Grmovac, so he wouldn't be giving a lecture to the MPs. Mr. Aligrudic, if you'd listened a little more carefully, you'd be a little bit interested in what's going on since the technical government of Vojislav Kostunica and this robbery that happened, we could say the robbery of the century that happened in Subotica, then you'd be asking what it is, so let's really check it out. Mr. Aligrudic, for the second time today, the president of your party in Subotica held a press conference and called this a robbery, that the theft of the property of the Republic of Serbia was done, and all this was done by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Mr. Aligrudic, you're asking your party president in Subotica to release what he was saying at the conference today. Well, see if we're repeating some of the same things or something's really going on. You're a little interested in what's going on in Serbia. Don't just wait for Vojislav Kostunica to send you here to tell you that we're talking about the same subject, and try to stop talking, to simply go points as you imagined. It's a robbery of state property, a robbery committed by the technical government of Vojislav Kostunica. They had no right to meet anyone or to sign anything. "Only when it was a robbery, could they sign and write agreements. 'Here, that's how it happened in Subotica. We've been tracking what's going on. How come such a sudden love between the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians and the Democratic Party of Serbia. We tried across the face where they were having dinner, at the Calebia Hunting House, to see what kind of negotiations and water arrangements. And here, a great child was born from that marriage of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and the Democratic Party of Serbia, a robbery was born in Subotica, with unremembered proportions, the citizens of Subotica bought out Subotica to have their own city, and Vojislav Kostunica and his technical government sold the city to an individual in Subotica. I don't think they've given him anything like that. They didn't know each other until recently. Suddenly so much love, suddenly so many lunches and drinks in his restaurant, on Engels Street. I don't know what it is, what it happened, why such sudden love and change in the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia to sign such a shameful contract, to alienate the property of the Republic of Serbia in such a shameful way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2489	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2490	I don't know if the voters gave them such a mandate, but in Subotic they certainly won't, although in Subotic they have a negligible number of votes. I hope Saturday goes as well as the JUL, where they only had three votes in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2491	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, then MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2492	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, workers, peasants and honest intelligence, when I say honest intelligence, I think of all those who have lost their jobs and who do other jobs, not those who have qualified, because they have no opportunities, because today over a million people have lost their jobs in Serbia. You're laughing, you're glad, because you did, because after the Five-Octobar Revolution, there was a continuity of this country's criminal state, which showed one large connective tissue between the mafia, politicians and so on, new businessmen. I also thought I wasn't going out for this pay phone, but I decided when I saw that a former privatisation minister, Aleksandar Vlahovic, came in this country, destroyed everything. Destroyed first by dealing with the business his firm is dealing with today. [[(Applause) Thank you.)]] He is, in fact, recalibrating those who should appear as potential buyers when buying certain companies. I'll probably, in the next presentations, when we hold these sessions in continuum, bring out that information, so that Mr. Aca can understand and see how this company of his works and works. Let's go back to this subject, go back to Grmovac, go back to those troubled people who can't get into the 21st century to get attached to electricity, to those who probably have suffered a lot in their lives, coming here and thinking that Serbia and Serbia's citizens will give a brother's hand to help them build their new nest. But they quickly realized that they were wrong because you must not show your great love for or patriotism to this Dosmanian democratic bloc, and as soon as you show it, especially if you show sympathy for the ideology of one of the largest political parties, the Serbian Radical Party and its creator, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, Only then can you exercise your rights. [[Applause]] That's where their torments arise, as you can see these citizens, these, I say, evaded people from their hearths cannot do the most fundamental, human, civilized thing to provide themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2493	Time, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2494	What I must also say is, let me inform you that today has stopped working on one of the oldest factories, the Zorca chemical industry, a mineral fertiliser factory in Šapec, where 1,000 workers have lost their donkey. There, that's the work, Aco, yours. It's part of your Dosmanian government. I hope you'll do it very quickly, because you promised the citizens of the Sabbath community where there were irregularities in the privatisation that they would make it right, but when you were replaced or when you left that place very quickly, you forgot about those promises. [[Applause]] Other tycoons are emerging, and this is Dusan Petrovic and Boris Tadic... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2495	Thank you very much, Mr. Zivanovic. National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament I will succeed, at least I will try to inform the National Assembly of the principles of work of Mrs Radmila Hrustanovic within three minutes. So, in the Sava Venac Municipality I come from, Mr. Vlahovic is just a little bit of attention if it's not a problem, so the principles of work are according to the Capital Act, when the municipality competes for a project in the City is given by the municipality 30% and 70% the City. In this case, the Savski Venac Municipality has, more specifically, applied to the City Assembly for a specific project, more specifically, the adaptation of the Maydan Pionir Centre in which it asked 500,000 euros from the City Assembly to grant it a transfer in order to be able to implement the programme. What exactly is this about? After an express deadline, the City Assembly makes a decision, approves the competition SO Savac and pays 500 000 euros SO Savac for the adaptation of a pioneer center. And you know why that's done it expressly? Now let me explain, it's good to know you too, Mrs. Milena Milosevic, since you were in that practice – the City Assembly gives money to the president, more specifically the municipalities that are from the same party and the City Assembly and the City Assembly, so I'll give it to you, here, figuratively so that I don't mess with those million figures in dinars, I give you 10, because you asked, you give me three, and by five you do and two you stay. Now, that's why Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic gave SO Savac everything she had to give, 500 thousand euros, not to the Zemun municipality, more specifically the Grmovac settlement, because they had nothing to return, they didn't ask for money, they asked for a simple signature. That's the difference. Where there's no money, no signatures. Where there's money, and face contact and everything else, and I'll explain that procedure later, there's no signature. These are the basic things and principles of work of coordination between the City Assembly, city services and the SO everywhere in Belgrade where DS is in power. Just to give you one more piece of information, I've got another half minute, that with all 500 thousand euros, the So Sava Wreath has been restored, more precisely replaced by two gutters, three thresholds and two aluminum windows that don't work today. There, so much for the principle of work and the way two jobs work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2497	Thank you. MP Momir Markovic. Please, they're all registered by the Rules of Procedure, so we have a list of 10 more people, you have to wait. They're all in business. Wait a minute, Mr. Markovic, they're all in the Rules of Procedure and they go before the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2498	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's talk here about some means, there's no need for financial resources. The citizens of their pain and their mouths were taken away and they made a high-voltage network, they took away from their troubles and made a low-voltage network, they took away their troubles and bought transformers, they installed them, they just need to install this one, because if I say 'idiot', they'll ask for the chairman again, so I won't say, only he has to put on the signature and nothing else. By the way, to remind the citizens of Serbia, the budget currently available to the city of Belgrade, as Mr Bogdanovic is sick, Mrs. Hrustanovic, the annual budget of the city of Belgrade is 500m euros, half a billion euros. Instead of focusing these funds equally on all municipalities, suburban municipalities in particular, funds are placed mainly in municipalities where they are in power or 'yellow' or their coalition. So it happens that three times in a year, the streets are paved in certain municipalities, because, for God's sake, the asphalt is dirty, and it can't even get into any of the municipalities of the car, because you're afraid of breaking the car. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who are being unfairly deployed, the fact that the government's relationship, Belgrade authorities, according to municipalities where they are not in power or 'yellow' or 'yellow-yellow' coalitions, are absolutely the same to me, differing only by the number of shoes, the attitude of such authority towards these municipalities is amazing. The municipality of Zemun on the spoon also receives asphaltation, the Municipality of Zemun on the spoon gets many other investments. We've been fighting for three years to start building a school in Altina. It's only now that they're supposed to lay a foundation. In view of the fact that the chief architect had been in Zemun Municipality for two years, just on electricity in Grmovac, I attended a few sessions where he spoke, just to sort this out and, you know, there are opportunities and we're going to get past it in a month and after that month it's more years, and it comes again. He lied to us in the municipality too, Councillors SO Zemun, he lied to the Grmovci, he lied in all order, and in the end he was gone. Now it's gotten to some, and I'm not gonna tell an idiot not to get...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2499	Mr. Markovic, don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2500	I said, I don't want to say, I didn't say. I'm not gonna say "idiot," but it depends on him, his signature depends on the life of 700-800 families there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2501	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2502	Thank you, and I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2503	Do you want to vote on it? You didn't say a member. (Momir Markovic: I'll get back to you later. So you don't have to vote. Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to call you, Mr. Vlahovic, to replicate, but since there are a number of MPs from the SRS waiting in line with the Rules of Procedure, you will have to do the same. First of all, the first time I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, I don't usually do it, but after a statement by my colleague Gordana Komic and after a statement by the head of the DSS parliamentary group, it's impossible not to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2505	Tell me by what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2506	Article 104, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2507	Your dignity has been compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2508	Not to me, but to all MPs in the Republic Parliament, and above all to you, because you have the greatest responsibility, because you chair this high house. Mrs. Gordana Comic is an experienced politician and when she comes out and says about this speaker, make sure there is always a certain background. So, you wanted to replace the thesis, you didn't exactly manage to do it so zealously, because you tried to deceive the public, and all the MPs here in this house. First, and as we respect the law and the Constitution, it is not true that technical documentation is not complete, that it is a matter and that we, as representatives of the SRS, are asking you to close your eyes, because some regulations are not well respected that we do so on the phone. We just wanted to show that you could solve the problem easily. If the head of the DSS parliamentary group says yes, we changed the Rules of Procedure six times after 5 October 2000 and made it according to our criteria. And if we are to defend the sovereignty and integrity of our Serbia, it is not the time, please, not now. If we need to talk about bribery, crime, corruption, and now is not the time, let's put it off later. If we need to talk about Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, the Presevo Valley, I really don't understand that geographical position, because I come from southern Serbia, and I'm even less aware that Medvedja has something to do with Bujanovac and Presevo, it's hard for you, sir, to let at least little problems that may be for you, but for the citizens of that place and how big, even if we let them have a life worth living. And if, every day during the session, we solve at least the problem of a particular place, we can say that we are really working adequately and that we have the right to do our job that Serbian citizens have chosen us to do in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2509	I do appeal to the dignity of the National Assembly. Do we need to make a special statement? The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2510	I am reporting under Article 27 of position 1 and I am addressing the President of the Assembly, because political racism seems to be at work, if not dictatorship. If exactly what the Deputy Mayor said was "let the radicals give you signature" or that the gentleman wouldn't sign it, then it's a violation of the Constitution, Article 21(1). Is it possible to share people according to their political belongings, and your mouth is full of democracy, equality, and for you we are idiots, backwards, and you are advanced?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2511	Please, we don't want to use bad expressions for the MPs or for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2512	So we're told by this spokesman DS on "Studio" D, and it's not "Studio" B, that's what she said, nobody said anything. So let's just show the people who's what. You say that's who we are. Come on, show me you're better. For example, why didn't the head of the DSS Parliament Club come out and say, "If it's true that this guy won't sign yes, we'll replace him, because he has to respect every nation's rights." If the deputy mayor said go to the radicals, why didn't the head of the DS Parliament Club come out and say, "We have to get her to sign, if she won't sign, we'll replace her." Prove that you are Democrats, and this is a dictatorship – if anyone votes for someone else, not us, we will avenge you, we will not give you the basic rights that the Constitution guarantees. The President of the Assembly must respect that. He could have stopped the whole discussion at first and said, "I'm going to contact them now, and if they don't respect it, we're going to publicly ask for their resignation." If radicals lie, the Zemun Municipality has the authority and will not sign it, then to tell the public that they are liars, and let's not change the subject and act like nothing is important, that radicals just want to obstruct the work of the Assembly. That's not true. It's such an important, important job. If you want to violate the rights of your citizens, then what democracy are you talking about? If you are going to divide the citizens along the political line, ours are good, and others are not, what does it look like? Come on, let's get some sense. Try to get your people to sign, that people have electricity, because otherwise, you're not Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2513	After you advertised Article 1. Rules of Procedure, you can't vote on that. The Rules of Procedure arranged the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic, and then Zorica Stevanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. Today, you are all informed that Mr Milan Martic has been sentenced to 35 years of imprisonment in The Hague casamat. What was this man convicted of? Only because he defended his centuries-old hearths and because he defended the Serb enemy and Serbian old men and women at the premises of Republika Srpska. The Hague tribunal has a double archaic. Let's just remind ourselves of one other Hague indictee who is not Serbian nationality. You know that Naser Oric for the great crimes and crimes he has committed to the Serbian people, was sentenced to only 2 years in prison. From here you can clearly see these double arches, which I was talking about. The Hague tribunal reminds me of courts from the time of Stalin and much worse than that. There's an anecdote from Stalin's time, when a new convict came to jail, the elders asked him, "Why are you convicted and how many years did you get? '". And he says, "I didn't do anything wrong, and I got 10 years in prison." And they say again, "You must have done something wrong, 'cause you get 15 years in prison for nothing here." That's the case with Milan Martic. After reporting to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Justice, Mr Dusan Petrovic: 'Is the principle of presummation of innocence valid in The Hague? ''We all know that by that principle everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. However, it seems to me that in The Hague the second principle applies: everyone is innocent until it is proved to be a Serb. They have clearly proved here that Milan Martic is a Serb. As soon as something like that is proven, then 35, 45, 55, 555 years, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2515	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zorica Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2516	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of parliaments, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about the problem in Grmovac. I don't know what's more important to you than solving these citizens' problems. Just one step away from the Assembly, from solving the problem and, as far as I understand MPs, just one signature. When you do something like that, which is close to the Assembly, you solve it so hard, what do citizens who are maybe miles away say? I come from Nis, where there's a lot of local problems, so, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, interest as long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, will tolerate the unhappiness of incumbent Mayor Nis, Mr Smiljko Kostic, who is otherwise when New Serbia and the conflict between the ruling coalition, which is made up of DSS, NS, G 17 plus and PSS, so perhaps there is some will of the people and who knows more who is in which party in the City of Nis Assembly? Because of all this Nis is completely blocked, there are no investments, budget money is ruined, and Nis citizens do not realize a minimum of their interests, while Mr Smiljko Kostic is being implemented and behaves casually in Astra and Kana. For example, there is no way to build a bridge in the village of Fast Ship, on the territory of the town of Mediana. The introduction of telephones in many villages, which are not even covered by a mobile network, which I know for a fact that there are projects that have been signed, I know that it is certainly built sub-centered in the village of Gravlje and in the village of Cerje, and certainly central in the village of Veodolje. You have made a democratic front, and this is how you fight the citizens of Serbia. This is one of my messages to you: if you continue this way and if this is the way the government in Serbia goes, the biggest judges will be your citizens in the elections, and most of all your children, whose future you are not even thinking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2517	National MP Predrag Stošić, then Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 100 of Section 3, I didn't get an answer to the question I referred to after my first report to the Rules of Procedure, and now I'd like to inform my colleague, Riza Halimi, to explain to him what kind of incident was in Bujanovac's space. So on June 1st, an explosive device was dropped into the yard of the brother of the president of the municipality, Nagip Arifi. He reported the case the same day, but 20 hours late, not until 9:00. When asked why they had reported the case so late, at consultations before the Emergency Session, Nagip Arifi said, since he was not there, his family was waiting for him, because without him they were not allowed to report the case. So only after 20 hours is the case reported. Also, at those consultations, Nagip Arifi accused the Serbian military and police of organising the attack. Soon afterwards, however, police caught the perpetrator of the incident, which is Albanian nationality and originated from the village of Konculj, where the vice-president of the municipality of Janiz Musliu, otherwise the brother of the arrested Blerim Salja, who is in prison of Umnik in Kosovo and Metohija, is charged with acts of terrorism. Therefore, you should be grateful to the police for the security force that successfully captures these terrorists, not to seek their distance from those premises. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2519	Mr. Halimi, you must wait for the replica, since there are a dozen members of the Parliament to be reported to the Rules of Procedure. According to Businessman Petar Jojic, then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2520	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is very serious. I see that some MPs are laughing because the 2,000 inhabitants of the Bolts have no electricity connected, and these citizens have brought the installations themselves, they just need someone to bring a solution, i.e.. to give an ordinary consent. I report to the Rules of Procedure Articles 225 and 226. I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, if you're able to, but it doesn't cost you anything, try to see who's blocking the release of consent so as not to join the electricity to the citizens of the Thunderstones belonging to the municipality of Zemun. Ladies and gentlemen, you from the democratic bloc, don't treat the children and refugees who escaped under the Ustasha knife. You do not allow their children to bathe here, nor have the power to read the books of Serbian writers, and in such a way that they are educated and educated as all our children in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, a member of the Constitution that prescribes discrimination, that's 21. - "No Discrimination." Here's what this norm reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal." I ask the question of the current government – whether the citizens who escaped under the Ustasha knife are also safe, appreciated and respected, and whether they enjoy the Constitution of guaranteed rights, as provided for in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The position of the 2nd article states: ''Every one has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. '"There's discrimination at work. I know that it is the Americans and their children that the government of the democratic bloc would run a power line not from Gerdap, but from Russia with the largest hydropower "Bratsk", which was otherwise built in the last century. Item 3 says: "No discrimination, either directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth. '' Does it mean that these citizens and their children have no right to constitutional protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia at birth? Ladies and gentlemen, this is no ordinary matter. Ladies and gentlemen, don't regret the time we talked about today and what we're going to talk about. To us, the MPs here are nice, we sit here and discuss, but go to the bush, go to Busius, go visit these settlements where our citizens who have escaped live, and you will see how they live. This time isn't wasted in vain. I urge all SRS MPs to come out five times, discuss this issue and demand that this issue be resolved, that Serbian citizens have equal rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2521	I thank the MPs, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Milena Milosevic, for giving up the discussion in the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, is behind him Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2522	And again, Article 226 and, again, we will return to the problem of joining electricity in the village of Grmovac and we will hold it like this by the Rules of Procedure until....
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2523	Well, now that's what Mr. Jojic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2524	Was there something you wanted to say, Mr. Chairman? And again, we're going to move the problem of the Bolt until the moment, so, you know, I'm not in charge of his intelligence, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia, I guess he'll figure out when I get out three or four times. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day we found out that in two years it was 11 million euros... For "the Duke of Meridian Bank", Deputy Prime Minister, an advisor, otherwise his advice is extremely expensive, whoever he's been counseling...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2525	Mr. Markovic, you cannot express yourself like that about the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2526	The Prime Minister's advisor is his current office, or he's a consultant at the Meridian Bank, and he's doing some other business part-time, but we'll talk about it when it comes to order. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when they were putting together this government, we knew from the SRS, almost everyone, that they couldn't do anything when I saw the list -- I saw 350 years of "hard dungeons" amongst ministers here. Let me remind you, the Horgos-Požega highway concession. To remind you of those five billion dinars or six million euros, the co-director of the National Office earns in a year! Let me remind you, by the way, that the citizens of the Grmovac have made an entire infrastructure for the release of electricity, and to remind you that he and the one who today claims a market for signing the document that should allow the connection of electricity, and many others, very soon after the local elections, which you must call in this year and after the change of government in Belgrade, will go to prison. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, that the chairman now take a break to obtain information from the City Assembly to see what is done there on this matter, that MPs and the public in Serbia be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2527	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic, then Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2528	Mr. Chairman, Article 226. Rules of Procedure, so far there should be an explanation from the Minister of Energy. The information should have arrived a long time ago. We've been talking all day and we've been discussing it. I am glad that Mrs Comic says, quote - I do not doubt every word of the SRS MP's words that it is true. I think you stopped my time while I was quoting. I'm glad you confirmed...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2529	You didn't quote the Rules of Procedure, you quoted the words of another MP, and that's not where time stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2530	Mr. Albianic, I have no doubt that you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure as appropriate to you. I'm glad you confirmed my words that Kostunica was uninformed, that you from the democratic bloc go to the Grmovac only before the elections. I also said that Boris Tadic is a corporal from Solana and that you from the democratic bloc are trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2531	Mr Topalovic, I warn you again that you cannot express yourself like that about the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2532	It's as if you're trying to banish them, to sell that extra location as the location of the industrial zone, as if you're banishing that people for the sake of individual interests. That's what I said, and you confirmed it was true. Join, for example, that people's electricity and solve this problem for the citizens of Grmovac, and then you deal with your democratisation and the implementation of your thieving policy. Everywhere you're in power, you've shown it all in action, starting with the "God of Dericose", the Duke of the Meridian Bank, 11m euros, which is known. You had a business space director, Simonovic, in Zemun, who is on the run. We told you about him in time, but you didn't do anything. You have on the territory of the 6,000-square Ugrinovac newly built hall, where he is a very frequent guest of Minister Bubalo. People say he likes a barbecue on the site, and he often leads the main word about construction and works. Whose was that? Whose "L" pumps, chain "L" pumps are all over the city and Serbia? Whose orchard is in a five-hectare Bolec? They're all the owners of that lovely Democrats of yours. And the Thunderbolt? It doesn't matter what people wait 11 years without electricity. Now, the important thing is that the sooner they get the power, the more important it is that they get a normal life, because they have a right to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2533	National MP Dragoljub Anastasovski and then Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I call on the members of the Rules of Procedure, to tell the citizens of the Grmovers that they will get electricity, because I guess that Komatini, too, I don't know what it's called anymore, and Mrs. Krustanovic reached the brain that there is no commission here, this is a must. This is about the whole village, not the individuals, and they're used to pulling as much from the individuals as they can. I now call on the members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of Assembly 104, 225 and 226. (President: What is it that you advertise? Mr. Chairman, I don't interrupt when you talk, so let me finish my job, and then we'll talk later. I wouldn't even go out if, in the afternoon part of the session, Mr Aligrudić hadn't come out to teach us a lesson about good behavior or whatever you want to call it. He taught us how to behave, why we are obstructing the work of the congregation, instead of asking you how this congregation does and what it does. Is he doing what we're gathering here for? I guess this is where we gather to pass the laws. Please, Mr. Chairman, calm them down or let them come out for a pay phone to say what they have. At the beginning of the formation of this assembly we have passed one single law, which is, the Law of Restraint. You've passed this law for yourself to protect investigative and judicial authorities who are incapable of doing their job. Even Carla del Ponte doesn't do these investigations as much as our investigative authorities do, and only when it comes to the judiciary does it take forever, so it's very difficult to come, it's not even known when the trial started, or when it's going to end. It's important that people go to jail. If they are to be convicted, however, there are people there who have nothing to do with any guilt, but they are imprisoned on some other basis. Now you've opened a tobacco affair, about the tobacco mafia. And that's where you extend your investigation. Instead of investigators reading Dr Vojislav Seselj's book on Canet Subotic-Zapac, head of the tobacco mafia, to learn something and based on that book they can run actions both in the judiciary and everywhere so they can do at least one percent right. There is no obstruction by Serbian radicals, you do the obstruction yourself, because it currently suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2535	Excuse me, section 104, the dignity of the National Assembly. Are we making a statement about him, since this is the second question that is being referred to? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić and then Srboljub Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2536	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS know perfectly that they are here because of legislative action, but you see what it leads to when the executive authority is not doing its job in the way that it should. It is incomprehensible to me, although I come from a small environment, that there are a number of people near Belgrade who have no electricity connected to this day, even though all the costs, which they should have paid for, have paid for it. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104(1), and of course I'm going to ask in the voting day to vote on it. This applies to the head of the DSS parliamentary group, who has armed his working hours in this parliament for five minutes in the course of one day: come here, give a lecture to the MPs of the SRS and some others, if they feel that way, and after that he goes away. It's not only that he doesn't have a head of Parliament here, he doesn't have an MP. They say, "Now we're not the ones who need to secure the quorum, now let them do the "yellow," so they say, and we'll sit there for a while. It wouldn't be a problem, Mrs. Comic, the SRS didn't ask for, just a little bit of what you were saying, didn't ask for something to be done that shouldn't be done or shouldn't be done. Namely, it's only required to respect what's required. I am now not surprised by this "Comadina", as someone said, when we see what Aligrudic is like, what the Prime Minister, then "Comadina" can be, there is still room for his humiliation, that is, to insult the citizens of Grmovac and all of Serbia, because they do it daily and it is not a problem at all. Someone said we were here for legislative activity, and that's absolutely true. In the previous term, the president of the assembly and most MPs said that the previous assembly passed 267 laws and that is absolutely correct, but we adopted the hot July ski resort law. It's not a problem to pass that law. We need it, we want the modern laws, but the problem is what happens in July. It's like when our farmers planned to sow wheat in October of the month. These are the problems of this government and the parliamentary majority that supports it. I'm surprised that none of the MPs stood up and said, although this is something basic, and the president of the Assembly that stood up, at least in that exposé, to raise the cultural level, today at no time tried to check what was going on and what were the problems. In addition to the advertising of Article 104(1), I request that in the day of voting the Assembly be made known. I'm advertising Article 226. Namely, now it's raspberries harvest season. It's our strategic product and stock market product. Unlike other agricultural products where the price is known, at no time has a buyer said anything about it – agricultural producers were forced in the evening, because it is a product when the harvest is due in the morning, and not a single day has come out with a single price and the government is not dealing with this problem. Therefore, it is directed. MPs are obliged to protect the interests of Serbian citizens and, as well as a respected colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, told us however, we are protecting the interests of citizens here, whether someone from Subotica, Ljubovije, Presevo, Medvedje, from other places of Serbia, is the only place we can use the opportunity... (President: Please, Mr. Pericic, elaborate on raspberries in the second reporting since the time has elapsed. Mr. Albianic, you've got a nice home and you're not perfectly interested in raspberries! Probably, in July of the month when you come to Love, you'll wave at the raspberries, but it's cynical what you do. I'll take this and talk later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2537	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, and then Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2538	Dear People's MPs, workers, peasants, honest intelligence, in 2001 when I entered this house, this booklet was waiting for me, says "Corruption in Serbia". The preface was written by a well-known doctor of science and respected, today's MP here, Dragoljub Micunovic. He described all the crime models that could happen, that is, with certain applications... (President: I apologize, Mr. Zivanovic, on what basis do you answer the word? () One hundred and two hundred. (President: 100 and 200. Rules of Procedure? Yes. But I have to tell you, this book is written on 200 pages. Now I'm asking you, probably, now that that book, or when we were supposed to get it in May or February, it was supposed to be 10,000 pages, because it was supposed to describe all of your crimes as an imfiding that you've done in the last seven years. It's no accident that the DS in 2004 didn't go into power, she wanted all her dirty tracks to be forgotten or erased. However, Mrs. Komic, I see how well you listen, but you certainly see for yourself what it was like when you were on the other side and when you punished us for what we were telling the truth, but you see, time is coming and now my party colleague, and that is Natasha Jovanovic, sitting up there for you. You can see that Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic left, left, reportedly having other jobs, was scared because he had to tell the truth behind this speaker, in fact, his crimes as a minister of privatisation. (President: Please do not treat MP Aleksandr Vlahovic as such, I warn you. ) I don't think I've said anything ugly, even that epithet I've said for this pay phone, it's very nice for those works that Mr. Vlahovic did to the citizens of Serbia. I'm still going to talk about what's on the agenda, and it's a shrub, a settlement... (President: Thank you. You can do it next time your time is up. )......................................................................................................... where citizens can't exercise their basic human rights, which is to attach to the power grid. Who's the Minister of Energy today? Well, Alexander Popovic. You know that in the last term... (President: Mr. Zivanovic, did you hear me say your time for reporting to the Rules of Procedure is up? ) Listen, I think that the time of Serbian radicals is coming and I hope that very soon we will take that position of yours, where we belong, and we will lead this country where it belongs – prosperity, where we will seek to save every piece of this country from being taken away, and you are giving it to us. We want to see every citizen equally, any religion... (President: Thank you, Mr. Zivanovic. ) Please, let me finally say, I hope that tonight the citizens of Grmovac will have connected electricity and that all the children and all those who need to live in this civilized world will enjoy the benefits of this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2539	National Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, reporting on the basis of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, and regarding the highest legal act of our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we brought last year. A colleague, Jojic, one of the most famous justice ministers in our country's history, who spoke earlier about the ban on discrimination against people, because of the time he could not look back on the other, also two important members of the Constitution, and it would be good for you, colleagues from the DS and DSS, to pay attention to Articles 24 and 25. The constitution, concerning the situation in which the citizens of Grmovac are located, is over 2,000 Serb exiles from Republika Srpska. Article 24. The constitution says that human life is incomparable. Article 25 says that psychic and physical integrity is inviolable, and it is these people and their children who cannot today, because you do not consider their life, their human life to be incomparable, to live a normal life. All day, this morning at 10.00 o'clock, who knows when, until late at night, if it's due tomorrow, we'll continue until that problem is solved. Former Energy Minister Radomir Naumov, who first announced to the nation that he had accumulated the price of electricity, now I see that you delayed it for September of the month, but still, the most expensive one in the environment, went to the Ministry of Faith, probably to pray to God and to repent of the sins that he so punished people for three years while he was in power. He promised that the problem would be resolved, therefore, and he acknowledged that it was not up to the Zemun Municipality at all, but right next to his ministry and the consent of the Belgrade City Assembly. Today we're talking about people who had to flee to the HH century by a Ustasha knife. At the same time, today, on the day that we talk about Serbs who have been exiled, who came to Grmovac to build a brick house, former Republika Srpska President was sentenced in the Hague casamat, Mr. Milan Martic, to 35 years. As you keep silent and believe that many of you intimately support it, which is the president of the Serbian Western Republic of these villains convicted, neither guilty nor due, to 35 years in prison, so today the media here, and especially Ustasha HRT, Milorad Pupovac, celebrates for it. It is that self-proclaimed representative of Serbs, your friend in the Croatian Parliament, who was sent by so-called international communities in Kosovo and Metohija to discourage Serbs whose intention is in early 1990s. year, recognized by our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. It is not enough for you, nor for the President of the Assembly, nor for Hrustanovic, who is following this transmission, nor for the new Minister of Energy, which you have heard three times since this morning, the announcement of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who, along with everyone else... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Serbian radicals, Mr. Buha, protect the interests of these citizens in Grmovac. But you don't know anything, as you don't know, and you didn't know, unlike us Serbian radicals, all these years to recognize which way America goes and what the real goal is for both Bush and Clinton, before he did, that they want to kidnap Serbian countries, so you don't know, and you'll probably never admit that every single person who seeks to protect his rights is right, these 2,000 people in the shrub. As for us, and as for all these people, the decent Serbs who came from that area, nor the traitor Pupovac, who serves Americans, Bush and Karli del Ponte, for them can be representatives of the people from that area, that is, and I think they should also be for you, Mr Milorad Buha, Dr Nikola Žutić and others, and there are half a million of them, who are not in their hearths today, all the way to the western line of the Serbian countries Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2541	The People's Messenger Veljko Kovacevic, then Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from a small place, it's Kladovo, we call it "the source of light," and there's the Gerdap Hydropower Plant. I don't understand that someone in the 21st century has no electricity. I've been in power for 37 years, and I think the director of Elektroprivreda is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2543	It must be said which member of the Rules of Procedure is being broken and explained, that we move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2544	I mention the function. The village of Grmovac not only is in prehistory, but it really needs to rebel and close the highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2545	Mr. Kovacevic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2546	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. Why 226? I've heard here several times about the sale of Elektroprivreda, so I'm interested in when the National Assembly ordered the government to sell the Elektroprivreda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2547	To whom do we address such a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2548	That's what the president of the National Assembly and the Government, the institutions and everyone else in charge of it. I'm interested and I feel called for it, because the people from the middle I come from are absolutely not clear who's going to sell it. Gerdap, who's gonna sell it? The power plant? And who's gonna sell it to Elektroprivreda? I'd like to talk about it first, so we don't plant that idea of selling the Elektroprivreda like a coward's egg. It's a huge deal of money, and the National Assembly needs a warrant to sell. It's being planted here so we can keep thinking about selling. About the sale, I'm afraid somehow a small door would come in and we'd have to do it. So please, under Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure, inform the National Assembly and myself personally, when a warrant has been issued for the sale of Elektroprivreda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2549	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, then Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for violation of the provisions of Article 226, as well as the provisions of Articles 219 and 220. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. First, because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. Today, the speaker of the assembly, Mr. Dulic, received the director of the Public Service of Serbia, so it is time for MPs to be informed about the topic of the talks. According to my information, it is planned to abolish the transfer of the National Assembly. It is time for the MPs to be informed of this, because it cannot be a private meeting. As for the Chief of Public Service, he's prone to various meetings. You remember he was in the MUP building the night Milorad Ulemek Legion was arrested. Another topic is current. Today, one topic is very current, at least it has been keeping public attention for the past few days. It's about the tobacco mob. It would be good for Parliament's president, if he had already spoken to the director of the Public Service, to ask the director of the Public Service what he was doing Saturday night at dinner with a lady who marked one of the heads of the tobacco mafia and who has been reportedly on the run since yesterday. You have a full paper today. So, Saturday night with her was the director of the Public Service at the Library Club, and days before that, she was also with her at the Fresca cafe. It's very interesting that we know what this is about, and this is also in line with the Commissioner for Public Information. Infringement of the provisions of Articles 219 and 220, Mr. Chairman. I have repeatedly warned that there is no point in discussing any legislative proposal, until the Constitutional Court is established in Serbia, and any law, no matter how important it is and how important it is and what it is called. He is subject to the assessment of constitutionality and please, you have a whole chapter in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court, Art. 219 and 220. There's no relationship, because there's no Constitutional Court. If the National Assembly, for which the Constitution is an alphabet, some have spoken of the gospel, the Holy Scriptures, the Bible, knowingly violates the Constitution and does not want the Constitutional Court to be established, I do not know what we are doing and therefore what is happening is happening. Just one more detail, and I'll finish. Mladjan Dinkic was yesterday, I don't know what quality he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2551	Time, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2552	Thanks for the tolerance. It concerns the election of governors and again I speak for violation of the Constitutional Law, governor of the National Bank of Serbia. You see a great legalist and an expert and I know why Dinkic does it. He needs Jelasic, as a whole of crime and abuse would be discovered, but he said yesterday that the governor of the National Bank would not be elected in the Assembly, but would be there by the end of the term. Read whether you are experts or laymen, the provision of Article 5. Constitutional law and you will see that the governor of the National Bank must be elected, and he has already had to, by the end of the first regular session. But that's what happens when you have two governments in Serbia. And if you're not informed, there are two governments here that have nothing to do with each other. They even sit on different days and at different times. A government that is normal and which should be normal, made up of DS ministers, held its session yesterday at five o'clock. Remember that people's saying: "There was neither one paradise nor two masters."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2553	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to inform the citizens of the Grmovac that the government has given in and has promised to attach that reach to the private faces tomorrow of the 19th century – electrical energy, five kilometers from Belgrade. I ask the citizens of the Grmovci or their representatives who decided and spent time in the Zemun Municipality building, overnight and were welcomed there as in their own home to decide on their own, whether it is enough that the government has promised us to break up with its protest, if they think it is not enough to continue the protest and will continue to welcome guests in the municipality building, and if they think it is good and enough, then to end the protest. We promise them, if they are not, that tomorrow night, behold, then the People's Assembly will also have the opportunity to see how the messengers spend in it day and night with blankets, mattresses and pillows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2555	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise Article 100, since you, Mr. Vice President, are always asking us to read it to you. Here, I will read to you what article 100 looks like in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. The MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly, without a search, will decide on the issue on the day of the vote. "Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, here we are, from 10.00 a.m., discussing the settlement of Grmovac, about people who were affected by war-steels from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska who were welcomed in the 21st century to live in a settlement with their loved ones, without electricity and water. This news that Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS and head of the parliamentary group, has now said here, I think he will bring a little joy into the village of Grmovac anyway. But it wasn't just the story of the Grmovac settlement today, we encouraged all of our problems going on in the municipalities, thanks to the authorities where you were, past the government, and also the current government. I thought, Mr. Albianic, that you would learn how to run one assembly, one parliament, one of the largest legislative bodies, when it comes to this and this subject. However, it was not enough for you that Tomislav Nikolic led this five days, to teach you, but you simply continued the same thing your predecessors did. I am particularly pleased that these people, promised by the city government, from the City of Belgrade, will get electricity, I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk about laws that are important to Serbia without fear, even in such burning problems of certain settlements and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2557	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Suleiman Spaho. He's giving up. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word on the 5th item of the agenda? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word application, have not been filed. Does anyone want a word that didn't take advantage of that right? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique debate on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We're moving on to a search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: jointly Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci, Srdjan Šin, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Marija Milišić, Nenad Canak and Dejan Mirović. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the Balint Pastor, Lasslo Varga and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 1. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Andrea Galgo-Ferenci.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2558	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Union of Duke Hungarians is, on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. In Article 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: The Law on the Protector of Citizens, after the word "humans", adds the words "and minority", so that the attitude reads: "The Protector of Citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human and minority freedoms and rights". Since the second part of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia bears the term "Human and Minority Rights and Freedoms", we consider it necessary for the harmonisation of the Law on the Protector of Citizens with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be carried out in the position of Article 1. The law. By adopting the proposed amendment, not only would the National Assembly send a good signal to members of national minorities, but it would also contribute to the full harmonisation of the Law on the Protector of Citizens with the current Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2559	Thank you. The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, as a representative of the Proposer, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2560	On behalf of the promoter, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2561	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2562	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment that will be voted upon by the MPs of the SRS because it is indeed an amendment in place and because the bill's proposer should have made sure that the law also includes part of the Constitution relating to human and minority rights and freedoms. I'm just going to remind you, and even when we talked about the Ministry Act, that we from the SRS had an amendment to form a new ministry that would deal exclusively with minority rights and freedoms. Of course, the amendment was not accepted, although we do not understand why you did not accept the amendment, unless perhaps it was the only and basic reason that the amendment came from the SRS parliamentary group. We show you that we really care, above all, about democratic principles, about human and minority rights. We show you that we care about all citizens of Serbia, that we care about all citizens regardless of racial, religious, gender, any other belonging, and that we show in our ranks that we have MPs of almost all the national minorities that exist in Serbia. We don't mind a representative of any national minority being in some high-ranking state office. We would always support it if it were an honorable man, but our objection to Minister Vuk Jeremic, who is a descendant and a member of the Pozderac family, certainly does not refer to the fact that it bothers us because the Pozderci are Muslims. No, it bothers us because the Pozders were Serbians, for destroying the Serb nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the time of communism. We wouldn't mind, let's say, Vuk Jeremic of the Honorable Muslim Spaho family, but if we know what the Pozders were doing only to our President Vojislav Seselj, if we know that because of Pozderac and Branko Mikulić he was imprisoned in the women's casamat, then we really can't trust such a man, even if he was a descendant. By accepting this amendment, we want to make it clear, first of all, that we Serbian radicals, unlike other parties, are acting the same way in the election campaign and when the election campaign passes. Because you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, swore to human and minority rights the entire election campaign, and then not only did you not accept the formation of such a ministry, but even in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, you left out this very important part. I don't understand why you've changed the law at all if you haven't, and yet you said that the law is in line with the Constitution, the most important thing in the Constitution has been incorporated into the proposal for this law. So the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2563	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2564	I hope you don't, colleague Albianic, hearing problem, because I'm sitting next to you and I'm close. I'll tell you twice, and you either want to be funny or charming, I don't know what this is about, but here, it's good I got my word. As for the necessity of this, you know, this is not just a mere thoughtlessness of the government of the Democratic and Democratic Party of Serbia. First, the Democratic Party, when it was in opposition to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allegedly was in opposition, voted in favour of more than 100 laws by the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica. You haven't worked very hard to improve the Law on the Protector of Citizens with amendments. It was important to you that your mentors told you – that, if necessary, the Ombudsman, or the translated protector of citizens, and when we submitted amendments and then before the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, pointed out the need for this member to change as well. Whether this integrated version of our amendment to Article 1 was like this, at this point I can't really remember, but our intensity has always been, our Serbian radicals that you accused us of being like this, like this, that we won't cooperate with anyone, that we don't respect the opinion of others, we're just an example for you. Then you should look up to us. First, look who is sitting in the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party, representatives of the national minorities. The only Roma in Serbia's history minister is Mr. Jovan Damjanovic of the Serbian Radical Party, not to mention counterpart Spah, about Miss Toman, Mr. Amjad Migati, who in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism is the first Arab who is here representative of the peoples' will of citizens who voted for the Serbian Radical Party. Now I can't, that's what the Honorable colleague Radeta was talking about, who is an authorised representative under these laws, and not to go back to dealing with individuals, or any of you in the referendum campaign. Day-to-day wherever you appear when you speak, I am speaking to you from the Democratic Party, about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which you did not lift your finger except for the mild statements of Tadic and you individually that citizens should come out and vote for the Constitution in the referendum days, so you did not bother at all, you even boycotted the vote of the Constitution. I don't know how you can now look at the representatives of the national minorities and these colleagues sitting here who have proposed this amendment, and have forgotten that their basic rights are not just one mere letter in the Constitution, that's one whole chapter of "The Rights of the National Minorities." That's exactly what they're looking for. Why not? A very nice colleague of Radeta's said. It's good that you approve of your colleague, because, you see, I'm positively affecting you, in a short time, you've realized what a cardinal mistake this is. Perhaps even the patron of the citizens will be a representative of the national minority. Here, let's see you in action, because maybe you don't know that, if you haven't read the Law on the Protector of Citizens whose change is now on the agenda, maybe even these members you know, but in the text of the law stands. that if any member of the Parliament wishes (and you are the authority, then we shall see how you will do so) he may suggest a protector of the citizens. Perhaps you will understand that you have made a mistake, that you remember the Constitution and that you promised that you are the protectors of minority rights, and you see that you are not, but rather the Serbian Radical Party, so suggest that you protect the citizens as a representative of the national minority. We'll see, but I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2565	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2566	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not give reasons for the proposed amendments because they have been explained in detail in the very proposals that you have received. I'd just like to say a few words. Why is the Liberal Democratic Party involved in these legislative procedures that have nadal attributes, and the result of the bad solutions in the Constitution? I will quote my party colleague Ivan Andric – because we choose less than two evils because we believe that Serbia should have a law on the protection of citizens and a good law. I am sorry that there are no representatives of the government here to ask the question: what would happen if the representatives of the opposition used their rights and asked the Constitutional Court to check the constitutionality of the individual laws, of the court we do not have. So the legislative and judicial authority in this country would be blocked, and above all there would be an all-powerful government that would rule itself in this country. Looks like the government's goal is exactly like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2567	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2568	Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed in principle these three draft laws on amendments and additions to these laws, we presented the position of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. We said we wouldn't vote for these laws. I will remind you that on that day, we spent almost all day convincing the assembly majority that the session was scheduled for May 30th, I believe, against the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then the president of Parliament consulted the professional public, he said, and the professional public must have explained to him that Serbian Radical Party MPs were right and had to interrupt the session and schedule a new one. He then said in the media that he had scheduled a session that was in accordance with Article 5. Laws to enforce the Constitution. However, I remind you that this session was not in accordance with Article 5 again. The Constitution. It is true that we have on the agenda the proposals of these three laws, but the President, or the President of the Assembly and the Proposers were obliged to propose both citizens' protectors and governors of the National Bank, and the Commissioner for Information. But until today, it has not happened, and the question is whether it will happen at all, given that yesterday we were able to hear Mladjan Dinkic, in the means of information, which tells Parliament that there is no speech that we will discuss here a proposal for the governor of the National Bank, that the governor of the National Bank will remain Jelasic, who has been so far. Of course, we would have nothing to do with it, or we would express our views on why we are against it, but we would have nothing to do with it because you are the congregation majority. If you agree to do so and vote here after the debate, it is completely legitimate, legal, constitutional, but that Mladjan Dinkic says it will not even be at the assembly session, but that it will only extend the mandate, it is really inadmissible. I expected and I said that this morning, that Parliament's president would react, I expect that MPs of the parliamentary majority will continue to respond. You have to learn, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes you, at least, send a message to the ministers, not just to receive messages from ministers. You must learn that the Assembly is the highest legislative authority and that the government depends on the Assembly. You must have your ministers, the ministers you have chosen and voted on, that you force them into order and that you force them into the borders of the Constitution and the law, if they have no intention of acting that way. As long as you are a congregation majority, you can tell your ministers if they will not behave in accordance with the Constitution and the law, that you can very easily and very easily remove them from the places you have placed them. This is truly well-intentioned and collegiately recommended for you to make an account, because you have been disbanded by the ministers in these first days. If they stay a while longer, there will be all sorts of miracles, and then you too will be held accountable for choosing them, and above all because you do not warn them and do not accept our well-meaning warnings when it comes to members of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We have submitted several amendments to this law. I said, we were talking in the principle debate that this was not just about amending the law allegedly to comply with the Constitution, but in each of these three laws you entered into and something you thought would not be noticed. Of course, we in the SRS are doing this job extremely seriously. We have shown this today, that seriousness and tenacity can make even Ministers Vojislav Kostunica have to act in accordance with the law and with the needs of a number of citizens, and today, in particular, the citizens of Grmovac. I hope we've made them happy, because I don't really know how you feel today that you couldn't listen to us and who you've been nagging us, not of course from the pay phone, because it's a luxury for you to go out for this pay phone and say something, but it's like this in passing through and out of the bench throwing how boring we are, how we repeat the same story all day. You know, it depends on who a man talks to. Sometimes it's enough to explain to someone and half a sentence, so a man realizes he needs to do something and he has to do it, and sometimes, like today, it took six hours. We had patience and strength, but, thank God, we did it. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Citizens, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Article 2 The law says that Article 4 means the basic law that is being amended, the attitude 1st word "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", and in the further text "the Parliament", are replaced by the words "the Parliament by the majority of the votes of all the MPs". When this article is read like this, it's not even clear to the lawyers what it says here. So let me explain to you that this Article 2 which I have submitted to the amendment refers to Article 4 of the Basic Law. What you were changing in that article 4 said that the protection of citizens, it was written earlier, chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have added – the Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs on the proposal of the committee responsible for constitutional issues. We had no objection to this part. We didn't put the amendment there, because we think it's okay for citizens' protectors to be elected by the Assembly by the majority of the votes of all MPs, because it's a high state function. Of course, when we discuss your proposal, we will certainly have a concrete view of who you propose. If these are the proposals that figure in the paper, then we can now say that there is nothing of this business, and what our people would say is free of charge. For nothing, the Law, for nothing, changes to the Law, unless there is a man on this post who will be truly professional and who, above all, will respect the Constitution, who will treat all citizens equally, who will not be someone like these today's ministers, and we have already proved today how we have violated the Articles 20 and 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the election and termination of the function of the citizens' protectors, you have left out something that, in the opinion of the SRS parliamentary group, is very important. It is predicted, in law, that the protecter of the citizens has his own deputy. You didn't predict that it was the same way to choose and resolve the deputy. We don't think that's good, since the public defender and his deputy have the same rights and obligations. It is known that the deputy only in absentia changes any functionor. So there's no reason, there's no legally valid basis for any official and his deputy being elected or resolved in different ways. That is why we have submitted this amendment with great good faith, in order to help make sense that we are not in a situation, and many times we have been in a situation and now we are talking about some of the laws that we have told you in time when we have discussed these laws, that you are making inapplicable laws, that you are passing laws that are not in accordance with our legal system, and that none of these laws will have any way of doing so. You know today, and you're saying that we have a large number of laws that have been passed since 2001 until today, which are not applied. And in order for this to not be one of those laws, we suggest that you accept the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the parliamentary group, and that amendment reads that, after Article 2 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, a new Article 2a is added. who says, that in Article 6 of the Basic Law, Section 4, after the word 'the Parliament', the words'most of the votes of all the Members of the People's Parliament' are added. Article 6 refers to the choice of deputies and stands in the light of this amendment that the National Assembly elects and relieves citizens' protectors by majority of the votes of MPs. We took it as a good solution. It further states, since the deputy protector of citizens by law ceases to function in the same way as the protector of citizens, therefore, it remains in the law. This has no basis for not applying the same rule from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for his choice. I really hope, Mrs. Kolundjia, that you have followed closely what I have said and that you will accept this as a logical amendment. Thank you very much. Mrs. Kolundjia accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2569	The amendment was referred to by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2570	On behalf of the promoter, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2571	On the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2572	This is fine, Mrs Kolundzija, but in this article, in paragraph 1, so in the basic text of the Law in paragraph 1 is one mistake that can be solved by legal and technical regulation of the Legislative Committee. In fact, Article 4(1) states that citizens' protectors are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as "the Assembly") earlier on, it was on the proposal of the Committee, so by the majority of the votes of all MPs, as established by the Constitutional Law, but the error of the legislator, as you can see in the bill, was replaced by the word "the Parliament", which should remain "the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", and in the following text, "most of the votes of the Members of the People's Parliaments". I hope you've seen it and understood it, because it's a mistake that needs to be corrected in an integrated version of the law, in Article 4(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2573	Is there any other word on this amendment? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2574	This amendment to Article 3 will also be interesting in this narrow aspect of this bill, but it will also be interesting as a principle issue for all MPs and for all those who are in the future considering submitting some draft law. It'll be interesting because we don't have a Constitutional Court. This article raises a very important question. In particular, it means that the promoters have proposed that Article 9(2) should make an amendment that should mean that the protection of citizens and the deputy protector of citizens cannot be members of political organisations, and is now changing into political parties. I think it's a big mistake. Why are we starting to condemn someone because he's a member of some political party? Why would one be distracted from dealing with matters of concern over the exercise of human rights by launching appropriate procedures, reports, the task of drawing attention to the National Assembly, the Government and the public on the frequent occurrences of human rights violations, to modalities, to ways of violating human rights? Why would it be a problem for someone to be a member of a political party to do the job? That would be some material reason for this amendment. The second reason for this amendment is purely constitutional, and it refers to what you are proposing to change Article 9 in contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 21 gives one standard of banning all forms of discrimination. There is a possibility when belonging to someone, something, possession of something may be an obstacle to performing a public function, but is the political membership of the candidate for the protection of citizens such a distraction that he cannot carry out a job of human rights quality? I don't think it can be a distraction, but it can only be an advantage to that man. If the motional logic were accepted, then I could ask the question why is the President of the Republic, who is also a state body, a member of a political party? Why is the Prime Minister a member of some party? Why are we members of some party? Are we disabled by being members of a party, in relation to a university professor, who thinks he's extracting some legitimacy based on getting a degree, that he can best see what human rights are, and there's no day of life experience? Why does this assembly devalue membership in political parties? It's much more honest, and it's much better when you go to a clean account system. If this logic would be accepted, then the Prime Minister, when elected Prime Minister, must resign, must make a public announcement that he has left the political party. Why? Well, the government is a state body, the President of the Republic is a state body. They do not pose an obstacle to political membership in the performance of this state function. These are state authorities and the protecter of citizens is a state body. I think this is an unnecessary condition that basically means nothing. They can propose two, three parliamentary groups, based on this law, to the Constitutional Committee of Citizens' Protectors, to swear that he is not a member of any political party, which can't be verified, at the very least, that he belongs to a block of NGOs, and today they're all government or CIA and that we get the situation as we got with the deputy secretary. He was in CESID, supposedly neutral, objective. When it was squeezed, it was seen that it was a member of the DS. I don't object to anyone who's a member of a political party, but I object to that hidden manner. What's with the cover-up? Is it possible that MP groups will propose someone to protect citizens in whom they will be absolutely certain that he is not a member of any political party? Knowing how DS works, they're gonna take his blood, see if it's really yellow. It's not a dispute, it's their right. They believe that they are thus fighting for their political positions, and even in these areas where there should be no political positions. I believe this is a discriminatory condition that degrades every citizen who is a member of the political party. Just to remind you, being a member of a political party, he voluntarily gave up his freedom and entered into a system of programs and statutes and is not absolutely free as someone who is not formally tied to any political party, but it does not reduce its quality, not as an expert, nor as a man who probably wants the best in his country and his people and his family. Now there's another question that might have been raised by the promoter about these things – what have they taken to compare? Did they take the judges? These are incomparable things. The public defender controls the state and the state administration, does the adoption of individual legal acts adhere to the Constitution and the laws and fundamental rights that belong to each man? The Protector of citizens does not implement any policy, he blindly adheres to the Constitution and the law, and they need to stamp everything in order. His political belongings couldn't be any distraction. If in the law you had made a condition that the moment he was elected as patron of the citizens he hated his relationship in the political party, it would be acceptable, because there is a decent distance between the party and the current function he has. Just to remind you, in the course of the last and the previous calls for a series of mistakes was made in the National Assembly. There were always mistakes made the moment when the constitutional void, on the question of who was the proposer for selecting a state official, decided most of them by setting up a working body or a committee of the National Assembly as a pronoun. Such a mistake was made, say, at the governor of the National Bank. It is proposed by the Finance Committee. We have had a dance here for two, three years – one to resign, one to resolve, one to choose, etc. And it was about the same situation as "I've been elected and now I'm putting up with some paper that I'm no longer a member of a party." Come on, now, Jelasic has nothing to do with G17 plus, let's have a laugh. He's a non-party figure by law, and who knew he was a non-party figure? Or to go to other functions that are also somehow conditioned that the candidate does not belong to any political party. So it belongs to a political party, take, let's say, well, that goes for the president of the Republic, take that chipplic of yours, the judge of the Constitutional Court, I see you're pushing him now, and you're proposing, that's a bad solution, you know, a bad solution to the knowledge of this issue. You know, it's much more honest if this provision was to withdraw, or accept this amendment, we're asking it to be erased, nothing is lost. Furthermore, under the existing law, the right of the initiative is not even proposed, but initiatives have parliamentary groups. You see how narrow that is, narrowly narrowed down, the candidate for citizens' protectors can, as far as we have here -- six parliamentary groups, so six initiators are potentially possible. Who will be proposed depends on the Constitutional Committee, and who will be elected here, of course depends on the majority. Then the majority should now go down the street and say – well, that candidate is not a member of our party, he has nothing to do with us. Well, there'll be guesses again. You know there's gonna be guesses, but why are we going with clean hands? It's impossible to provide a man who's an impartial figure for this place, absolutely impossible. I could quote you potential candidates, everyone's connected to a democratic bloc. Then why are we introducing into the law a provision that he must not be a member of any political party? This should be thrown out of this bill, or from this law, this amendment should be adopted, the accounts are clean and everything is clear. Just to remind you how selectively it is to be approached in similar situations. You remember when Milosevic was president of Serbia and president of the SPS, demonstrations were. We now have a president of Serbia who is the same president of his party. Milosevic has frozen his function, it has not been reduced, for this I don't even know if he has frozen his function. We have now had a three-month situation for the president of the Republic as president of the DS, in the image and work of Dusan Petrovic, to negotiate with the government's president on the future coalition government. He who is scheduled to propose a candidate for Prime Minister talks with a potential candidate for Prime Minister from another political party based on political belongings, the relationship between the winning mandates of the party lists, although at the same time has the state office of the president of the Republic. The other one had that technical function, though. It's, in my opinion, a serious abuse that happened, and that's why we've had this speculation for three months, whether it's going to be government, there's not going to be government, there's going to be no government, there's not going to be, and at the end of five to 12 it's over. Why? Because Solana broke the movie, took the glue, glued it up, and you have to love each other. I don't mind that you have to love each other, but there's no love when it's forced, and love is not so important for the exercise of power, I have to admit it to you. There are much more important other attributes to enable, you should probably have a common plan, a program, not those five points of Kostunica's, let it go, and that when he read everything he looked at here, he couldn't look into his face. So I propose that the proposings of this amendment and the additions of this law accept this amendment to Article 3. This applies to Article 9 of the original text, because two are huge reasons. The first and biggest reason is Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that prohibits discrimination, and this is so written to act as discrimination, because there is no legitimate reason why someone would exclude himself from being a candidate for the protection of citizens just because he is a member of a political party. I'm telling you that people from political parties can do the job of protectors of citizens far more securely than these, supposedly, non-party or God forbid of these NGOs. Can anyone imagine Sonja Biserko as the protector of the citizens, Natasu Kandic, that Milicka, or what Vuco was like? Come on, please think of Wolf as the patron of the citizens. Whoever was represented by Wolf in the process, he lost the procedure. She represented Stevan Lilic, thanks to her representation he remained in court recorded as a plagiarizer. If he had been represented by another lawyer, he might have defended himself, but when Vuco represented him, he lost the procedure and remained recorded both at the university and at the university and in literature and in scientific literature as the greatest plagiarist. Then, he's a poor man to prove that the plagiarizer here doesn't fall into a serious legal delusion with another Hiber over his resignation, and then a simple lawyer, Bosko Ristic, has to pull them out here. Imagine now, for example, such a level, such a capacity to be the protector of citizens. And yet to convince us that Hiber and these have nothing to do with the parties, or Wolf has nothing to do with it. It's even more dangerous with these NGOs. They may have little to do with you to fool you, but they have much more to do with those from abroad who are their true sponsors. So accept this amendment, it will be fine, and in principle think about all future laws where any suggestion should be made whether belonging to a political party can be this factor of discrimination that someone cannot be a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2575	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9. The law on the protection of citizens is prescribed that the protection of citizens and its deputy cannot be members of political parties. As my dear colleague Krasic said, that is not the point of the problem. The right to belong to a political party is an essential political right guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia, and we believe that such a provision is, above all, unconstitutional. It is not a matter that citizens' protector and his deputy cannot be members of political parties, but that they should not represent the interests of any political party in the performance of their duties as protectors. That is why, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to Article 5 that after the words "political nature" I add the words "and cannot represent the interests of any political party in carrying out my duties". Therefore, it is important for the protection of citizens and its deputy to be completely objective, impartial, to operate the criteria of constitutionality and legality and legal profession, whether or not they are members of a political party, to be entirely irrelevant. It is important that they practically represent the interests of citizens, to implement the Constitution and the law, rather than to carry out the tasks of certain party bodies. We believe in the SRS, and this is what Ms. Verica Radeta mentioned several times today, that the president of the National Assembly still did not respect the provision of Article 5(1). The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we had to discuss, under the Constitutional Law, the candidate candidate's proposal has not yet been received, and it seems to me that the main reason for the ruling coalition's still not to agree on who will be their candidate. It is obvious that the citizen's protector is also part of the ruling coalition's political prey and that there are still talks about who from their party chamber will belong to that function. Perhaps they really find someone who is not formally a member of DSS, DSS or some other party so-called. The democratic bloc, but we have no doubt that, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia, and the protector of the citizens and his deputy, will obviously implement not the Constitution and the law, but the orders and so on. Serbia's democratic ruling coalition. So, once again, it is not the essence of the problem of belonging to the political party, but whether the public defender will in practice behave objectively and impartially or will respect only the orders of the ruling coalition in Serbia. In order to prevent this, it is necessary to adopt this amendment, which prohibits the protection of citizens from performing their duties from representing the interests of any political party. Everything else is one mask, because the question of whether or not someone belongs to a political party is particularly difficult to check, and that it can be checked, you cannot deny any citizen of the Republic of Serbia his constitutional right to belong to a political party. Because it is known to everyone that the basis of every political pluralism, or respect, is the fact that there are political parties and are not political parties the enemies of democracy, but are enemies of constitutionality and legality if the state officials instead of respecting the Constitution and the law enforce exclusively party policy, and we in the SRS fear that the protectionist and his deputy will, in fact, imagine them as being just party listeners.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2577	About the amendment Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment where a second position should be changed where it is said that the protection of citizens and deputy protectors of citizens cannot be members of political organisations, or parties. I don't know what you accept that in such a way you degrade the first members of political parties, because I suppose a number of people who are interested in politics, which accepts certain policies, programs of a particular party, it joins, someone decides to be active or not, but I guess that's not why you discriminate against his rights in such a way and prevent him from being elected to certain functions in accordance with the Constitution. Are members of political parties worse or in some way already predetermined that they cannot be elected to certain functions, or are you acting on the orders of some who are interested in certain institutions in Serbia, including the political party, as well as the Serbian Parliament, in some ways creating a bad picture of them in public, in order to make it easier for this country and the citizens of this country to rule as easily as possible. What does that mean? It means that according to some logic of October 5th, this place would have been exclusively tied to representatives of the so-called civil sector or NGOs. We have, unfortunately, the experience that you allegedly do not choose members of political parties, but you choose some from NGOs or some other associations of citizens and it is a guarantee that they will do their job in the interests of citizens in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, because they are allegedly independent, they do not have to respect party discipline, but will decide on their own conscience and conscience, which has proved completely incorrect. I only remind you of CESID and remind you of the referendum in Montenegro, when CESID came out immediately after the polls closed with information that the referendum succeeded, that it voted so many citizens, falsified and thus prepared that a forged referendum in Montenegro would be of full importance. Just to remind you of the Atlantic Forum. You are honest, you just don't rule in accordance with that parole, but quite the opposite of that parole, which the sparrows on the branch already know. Just to remind you of the Atlantic Forum and the former member, then the G17 member, and then the outcast Minister Glavinic, who has plagued the country in several affairs. And he came from an NGO. Do you think anyone from any NGO, by the very fact that he is not a member of some political party, that it ensures absolute certainty that he will do his job in the right way. I'd like to give you one piece of information, and I'd like to read you the names of a number of people who don't belong to any political party. They belong to some other, say, associations, boards, publishing councils and so on, and you think that such people under guarantee will be good for the protection of citizens, because I suppose you all know, it's no secret that members of the board of directors at all, members of any body since the DOS came to power to provide extremely large monthly benefits. Do you think if you provide them with membership in such bodies for a few years that they are truly independent? That he would work on his conscience and conscience. I'll read you the names of members of the official messenger publishing work. Why is the official messenger interesting? You've had opportunities in "Kurir" these days to read various affairs, or problems that exist in the "Official Messenger" over the abuse of the official position and the damage that the state is suffering, because the state's assets are being distributed in such a way. Not only is that a problem, but there are names here that are tied to the third branch, perhaps the first and second branch on which the state should rest, in the judicial authority. How can we be sure that people who belong to this branch of government of a country will make decisions in accordance with their profession, with their awareness and security? For example, among them is the first Slobodan Vucetic, president of the Serbian Constitutional Court. It's the one who, despite having long met his retirement conditions, didn't retire. Vida Petrovic-Skero, president of the Supreme Court. Bossa Nenadic, judge of the Constitutional Court, too. Professor Dr. Leprechaun Karamarkovic. Elita. Professor Zoran Ivošević. Elita. Now, though, he's at some management college. There's a lot of these. Professor Dr. Zoran Tomic. It's not the one you predicted to protect the citizens, is it? There's one little thing for all of them that's very interesting. This association or membership in this council is a small matter for Serbian citizens. Something like 70,000 dinars a month. Count how many there are, calculate how much this is a month, and all of these are paid by taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, and you assure us that if they are elected to such places, they will be neutral, that they will work in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. Who can believe more, but this is just one of the organizations they're in. There are those who are more members, so they receive two or three compensations a month. There are some boards of directors of public enterprises, where these compensations are several thousand euros, such as "Yugoslav aerotransport". In addition, this can be confirmed by Mr Zoran Shami, who was former SRJ minister of traffic, then chairman of the JAT board of directors. There was another new democracy back then. Then they changed their name. As a new JAT board was formed, it had 80 and some thousand monthly compensations as chairman of the board of directors. These are, in your opinion, the best, probably reasons why you expect them to be neutral and that decisions will be made exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2579	On the amendment, MP Petar Jojic, you have another minute and a half. About the amendment Milosav Milickovic, you have one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to ask that you accept the amendment tabled by counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic, who says that in Article 5, after the word "political nature", the words "and in the performance of their functions cannot represent the interests of any political organisation". In practice it looks like this to you today – the only real representative of the interest of citizens is your SRS and it is common knowledge. To that end, it is known that the protection of citizens must work in accordance with the Constitution, the law, and in local self-governments in accordance with the statutes of the local self-government. When it comes to a specific example, I will tell you that in the Municipality of Rakovica, the Ombudsman is a certain Mr. Vujovic, whom I do not know, but I have received a presentation of employees from Hotel "21 May" in Rakovica, where they say that 20 employees are on a variety of grounds, and according to the contract they concluded, they should have left the hotel's premises. However, they went to protect the citizens in their municipality. He told them Velimir Ilic promised that no one would move them, only that they would join Velje Ilic's party. Today some employees in this organization have major problems. As an MP from that environment, I have received this memo and I would just like to say in favour of this amendment, urging you to accept it, it has been shown in part that, allegedly, Mr Vujovic, who is an Ombudsman in the Municipality of Rakovica, is a non-party figure, however, they absolutely act in line with the interests of a particular political party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2581	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The proposal to add a new member, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 7a be added after article 7. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I beg you, there are two amendments left until the end of today's work day, so if we can hear the arguments. National MP Marija Milisic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Marija Milisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, and in the sense of eradicating it. Article 9. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens refers to changes in Article 19. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, which reads, quotes: "The Protector of Citizens is authorised to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the laws, other regulations and general acts governing issues relating to the freedoms and rights of citizens." The first part of Article 19. The Law on the Protector of Citizens The bill has not been amended, although it is more of a symbolic authority, the power to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court is more symbolic since the institution has not been operational for a long time. However, a disputed part of article 19, which in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protector of Citizens has been deleted, and it reads, quotes - "... which regulate issues relating to the freedoms and rights of citizens." The deleted section of Article 19. The Law on the Protector of Citizens is a framework for the protection of citizens, its jurisdiction and legal restriction within which the elected person should be moved. Every state authority, including its official, must act in accordance with the powers prescribed by the law and regulate their work. Deleting part of Article 19. The Law on the Protector of Citizens is introduced by anarchy, because what is the second protector of citizens and what is its jurisdiction if not protection relating to the freedoms and rights of citizens. The protection of citizens is a form of public control of the work of the administration and as a function of protecting and improving the achievement of freedom and the rights of citizens. Article 1 The law on the protection of citizens in paragraph 2 says that the protection of citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human freedoms and rights. I think every other explanation is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2583	The amendment was reported by MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic. First Natasa Jovanovic and then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2584	The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that when this law has its real application, not only because it has had to be a concrete proposal for the protection of citizens on the agenda, but because this amendment, which has been submitted to Article 19 of the Basic Law, that is, Article 9, to which Ms. Milisic has submitted the amendment, refers to the future work of the Constitutional Court and the obligation of that future protector to launch before the Constitutional Court a request for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the laws, other regulations and general acts, continues to take place. The point is to explain to us why you systematically violate the Constitution with such a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. Let's go back to Article 1, when you accidentally left out minorities. Here, as Miss Milisic points out to you, until this part I have read, you have left the basic text of the Law, Article 19, and the follow-up to the issues relating to the freedoms and rights of citizens, you say it should not be in the law and deleted. Explain now to the citizens of Serbia that you will protect their freedoms and rights when you delete it from the text of the law, and in the first member of the law on the protection of citizens, that future protector should do so. You're making it impossible in his business in front of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, whenever you form it, and it certainly will not happen any time soon as things begin, will not assess the rights and freedoms of the citizens of this country at all. It doesn't surprise me at all. Remember the numerous, dozens of performances, complaints to the Constitutional Court filed by the SRS, because the flagrant violation of the rights of the MPs, our rights here. We received only two confirmatory answers, (i.e. Verice) that we can all talk about amendments and that we can report to the Rules of Procedure, and everything else is left, because so said Slobodan Vučetic, the political president of the former Constitutional Court. What do we expect now when the MPs, the entire parliamentary group, 82 MPs, before that 23 MPs, submits a presentation to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality, or legality in this case of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly or our parliamentary group throughout Serbia, when individual acts adopted by the authorities of local self-government were directly lunched with the law on local self-government, such as the Statute of the City of Kragujevac, which was brought in. The Constitutional Court is silent, and you say now in Article 19, or Article 9, that freedoms and rights of man and citizen are not protected. Then how can anyone trust you? After all, you have shown in part that you are not interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at all. The fifth year has been since the president of our party, who voluntarily surrendered and went to The Hague, and you have no interest in whether his fundamental rights are being violated, and this is the president of the largest political party and until yesterday your colleague, who has been in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the first day and the first time. How can you, then, convince a citizen that you'll protect his rights when you're making it impossible for a protector? Since I only have a little time left, other colleagues have come forward, to get back to that story about political engagement or non-engagement, since there was no space just now. One of the first citizens' protectors, the city's civil defender, as it is called under the Law on Local Self-Government, was elected to Kragujevac. It is not at all controversial that he admitted and that the whole public knows that he was a member of a failed political organisation, which of course did not pass the censorship of the Serbian Renewal Movement, either in the republic or in the local town of Kragujevac. The problem arose when he began to interfere in his work and began to produce reports reporting to the citizens of Kragujevac based on their complaints, that Veroljub Stevanović, the city administration of the City of Kragujevac, public enterprises, violate the law and the Constitution of this country and the Law on local self-government and the general acts adopted by SO Town of Kragujevac. He's been replaced at the moment. It's not a problem if he's a member of some political party and it won't be proven in court. You have such converts that it's a miracle. In this DOS, in this third and that first one, let's start with your first political engagements, so it's that a man's head hurts, at least there's some related ideologies, and there's no ideologies, but just a system of "let me be somewhere and take something to catch myself" and now you're saying he can't be a "protector of the citizens" member of a political party. As for his jurisdiction, be assured that this is a whole farce, because whoever is elected, and already spoken out loudly about this candidate for whom you are preparing the place, he will certainly not be able to do the job out of his jurisdiction, because this is the first obstacle and cannot be asked by the Constitutional Court to respect the basic right of the citizens of Serbia, guaranteed by the Constitution, which is human rights and freedoms of man and citizen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2585	The amendment is being discussed by MP Petar Jojic, and you have seven minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2586	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this session is marked as a session that is very problematic. A session on whose agenda the draft laws were not allowed on any basis to be on the agenda until, above all, the Constitutional Court was established. According to the Law of Procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of its decisions, meetings of the Constitutional Court shall be scheduled by the President or the Judge who replaces him, as prescribed by Article 43 of that Law. And the court interpreted, but wrongly, that a deputy president can only exist when there is a president, what legal logic, no, and when he's gone. Now he can't work until a new president is elected, because there's no authorized person in court to schedule a session. Meanwhile, a new constitution has come in which the President of the Constitutional Court is scheduled to elect judges from his composition, as provided for in Article 172, paragraph 7. But nothing has changed in court. The court has not amended its decision on the organisation of the Constitutional Court, as it is normised in "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" number 56/2002 (which I have been making), which it can change itself, whose article 11 allegedly was the basis for the forward interpretation. And the judges didn't take advantage of the possibility of the constitution being directly applied to choose its own president and to continue their work. For this reason, Serbia today, in fact, does not have a Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 167. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen, the norm reads, "The Constitutional Court decides on: the consent of laws and other general acts with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and approved international agreements." Ladies and gentlemen, can anyone in this country, if this law is passed and passed, initiate an initiative before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of all three of these proposals on the agenda. He can't! Because we don't have a Constitutional Court. How are you going to choose, ladies and gentlemen of the democratic bloc, now, after all this, if the law comes into force on the eighth day or from the day of publication in the Official Messenger, how will this "civil defender" be able to apply for the protection of legality and constitutionality. Whether the law will be in accordance with the standards established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He can't! The law won't apply at all. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia, the former SFRY, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia, confirmed by an international treaty to accept international standards both in the area of this regulation and in the area of law. Ladies and gentlemen, international law represents a synthesis of politics and rights, which in international law should allow the right of policy to be overcome, as well as its greatest basis on widely accepted principles of relations and law. History shows that where politics dominates the right, there is a conflict of politics and rights, which requires certain social deviations. It is mistakenly believed that positiveism has allowed policy penetration into law, although it is certain that positiveism can be abused for political purposes. It seems, however, that natural law theories largely allow for policy penetration in law, even when it tends to set limits in politics. However, the SRS, and I as a lawyer, believe that the previous question is what should be done in this Serbia, which is to pass those laws as normised in Article 5. The law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that during the second session, following the government's election, the National Assembly shall comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to courts and public prosecutors, laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of courts, the election and termination of the office of the President of the courts and judges of the Supreme Council and the State Prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a previous issue – respect for the Constitution, and then it can come to the agenda to discuss, speak and decide the laws that should be applied in practice. The previous government cannot boast how it passed 267 laws. Unfortunately, we have such legal regulation and the situation that the laws of the previous Assembly, Parliament, have already been required by their amendments and additions, and have not yet entered into force and have not yet been applied, which is in parallel to the law of Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, England and the Angolan countries – that the amendment and addition of the laws that have been passed and have not yet entered into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2587	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. This is the last proposed amendment to the law we're just talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment provides for the amendment of Article 10. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens. The legislator did not explain the reason for the law to be passed by emergency procedure. In this context, the Proposer calls for Article 196. The Constitution, but this very member of the Constitution states: "Laws and other general acts shall enter into force at the earliest of the eighth day of the day of publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justified reasons, established at the time of their adoption. "A similar definition exists in Article 161. Rules of Procedure: "Only a law governing issues and relations can be passed following circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. "So, when it comes to this, it is logical to ask the following questions: What has dramatically changed since May 30 until today? On 30 May, some other laws were on the agenda, whether the reasons set out in Article 196 were based on Article 196. The constitution, which is now being called upon, existed on 30 May 2007? Also, if we look at the whole bill, there's still no explanation for the emergency procedure. For example, in Art. 2, 4, 6 and 7 are prescribed that the assembly chooses and resolves most of the votes of the public's protectors and his deputy. Since it's in article 105. The constitution has already resolved the issue precisely, the promoter, obviously insecure, adds another explanation. Apparently, it's a European standard. But that's not true. The Slovenian law prescribes a two-thirds majority. The Hungarian law also prescribed a two-thirds majority. The European Ombudsman Institute, from the University of Izburg, also participated in the draft law in Hungary. In Spain, a three-fifth vote in the Senate requires ratification. In Sweden, in which the institution was created about 200 years ago, the choice is made by acclaiming. There is no explanation for the urgent procedure or provisions of Article 9. The bill, which regulates the procedure before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. It is known that we do not have a Constitutional Court elected under the provisions of the new Constitution, although the entire Sixth Part of the Constitution regulates this institution, from Articles 166 to 173, as well as Article 9. Constitutional law. The promoter is also generally calling for a new constitution, but the new Constitution has two basic values: it is the first, successful regulation of human rights, even the Venice Commission considers this to be better done than European standards require. Unfortunately, it is known that the government did not find it appropriate to form a ministry of human and minority rights; second, the basic value of the constitution is regulation of Kosovo's status and Metohija. But the legislator did not predict the existence of a public defender for Kosovo and Metohija. Only such a solution would justify the passing of the law by emergency procedure. That would also be in line with international standards. For example, in Northern Ireland there is a special protecter of citizens, in Belgium for the regions of Valonia and Flandi, in 29 parts of the Russian Federation work special protectors of citizens, in Canada there is this institution in several provinces. Also, the proposer did not foresee the protection of citizens for Kosovo and Metohija, although the European Court of Human Rights has decided that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 does not apply to NATO troops in Kosovo. Not even members of 2nd and 5ths who guarantee the right to life and the right to freedom and security shall apply. The promoter did not take into account the seriousness of efforts to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. He did not take into account Marek Novicka's statement that Kosovo is a black hole in human rights. That is why our delegation's statements given in Petersburg, Kosovo and Metohija are inconclusive, as a world issue and the historical importance of this problem. If we are already asking Russia to come into conflict with the whole West because of Kosovo and Metohija, then we too need to sincerely protect the human rights of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, not to apply double standards, as does the West. Therefore, there is no justification for an emergency procedure provided for in Article 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2589	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, about the amendment. You've got eight and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally come into a situation for you to understand the seriousness of legislative activity before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is established. Namely, if you decide on a voting day and vote this bill, each MP, each state body has the right to initiate a constitutional procedure before the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you, if the procedure is initiated before the Constitutional Court is in effect, the law can also be declared unconstitutional so that it does not enter into force at all. And if the Constitutional Court does not complete the procedure by the date of its entry into force, that decision may be valid at the time of its completion. I would like to inform you, that it does not turn out that you did not know anything, the second you pass this law, the SRS will submit a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Turns out there's no one to handle this proposal. It will appear, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not want to allow it to work, to live the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Turns out we don't have a Constitutional Court. It's, I don't know how to explain it to you, like if there were former athletes here playing the game and the judge hadn't given you a sign yet. You've seen sometimes, rush the attackers to take a free shot, score a goal, and the judge comes back and says I didn't play in the whistle, I didn't approve the procedure. This procedure you've been dealing with has not been approved for several days because it's not democracy, because it's not a legally regulated state. In a legally regulated state, it is known who has the right to propose laws, who has the right to pass laws, the procedure for passing laws, but also how and who has the right to challenge the law, to challenge it from the point of view of its constitutionality. You are knowingly ignoring the fact that MPs have the right to challenge, to initiate proceedings for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law. You're working here now and you're saying that there's a constitutional right for MPs, but we're not going to give them that right, and we're not going to set up a Constitutional Court. Do you have any morals? Do any of you ever look in the mirror? You call yourself democratic parties, like this. At least put that "d" in the abbreviations, and that's a sign that you're the Democratic Party. Well, when are you such Democrats where your Constitutional Court is? This is where you worry about whether it's been three minutes for the discussion. Here, now reminds me of the chairman, you've got eight minutes left. I've already got five minutes. Probably if those were 2001 relationships, you'd say on the fifth minute that I left the pay phone, you'd turn off the microphone, you'd introduce a guard, you'd carry me, the same people who've been carrying me for 15 years. What shall I do with you who do not have the Constitutional Court, who do not let the people complain before the Constitutional Court about this hiducia of yours? Is there a time for you, like, five minutes, eight minutes? Do you know the deadlines of this Constitutional Law under this Constitution? You know the time to argue, and you don't know the time in which the Constitution has to start living, this poor child you didn't put in the incubator. You let him fight, or he'll survive or this constitution will die. Because you who have to defend him, you don't think about him at all. What legislative activity? Here's your first problem, you will pass a law whose constitutionality we will seek immediately to evaluate the Constitutional Court. Then what are you going to tell the Council of Europe why the constitutionality of some law they sought, based on the Constitution, the MPs, you're going to say we didn't establish a Constitutional Court. So you said we didn't hold direct elections for the Assembly, the Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and we ran out of states. Did you pray there in Strasbourg and Brussels that no one will touch you, although the Constitution says that in two years, direct elections will be held for MPs of the Federal Assembly. You said don't make us beat the radicals now, let's leave this same set of federal MPs so that the Radicals don't take over the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, who knows what they would do with the assembly. Well, what would we do? We certainly wouldn't kick her ass! That's what this looks like to me today. But how do we destroy Serbia now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? I see where your unconstitutional behavior is going, but tell me if you've plotted any boundaries again. You shut up yesterday when the president of the United States says clearly and openly Kosovo and Metohija is independent, let's give the Serbs something, let's give them membership in NATO or the European Union. He's making fun of that membership, and you're telling us it's "al pairs". You equate us with membership in the European Union, so you give Kosovo just to be in the European Union, and he makes fun of and says – let them be members of the European Union. Do you even think this is a moment for historical responsibility? Within a few days, you saw, Macedonians arrived in Tirana, Croats arrived in Tirana, which was the third state. Apparently, the three countries are preparing to immediately recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and you are sitting here, onion and water, talking about the protection of citizens. I lasted 55 years without protection, here, I accept, don't protect me for another three months, let's get this straight first on Kosovo and Metohija. Then choose your patron of the citizens. Let's discuss Kosovo and Metohija. Come on, propose to the Constitutional Court judge, yours will be elected. What's the problem? Tadic proposes five of his own, here you agree and propose five Kostunicas, choose those ten, let the Constitutional Court work. Then We shall call these people to morality, and say, "Well, we know how they chose you, but can you be a little bit of judges, so that you may forget?" There, that chip, he forgot he was a judge. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was, where this Albianic was, he was his, the Vučetic, G17 plus. But there are honest people. You won't be able to avoid honorable people choosing in that Constitutional Court. You will have to choose people who have integrity, who will mean something in Serbian law science. It won't be a shame behind them. It's easy for you, easy for you, especially for your younger ones. You think the world ends with your victory in the election. You'll see how much more victory and defeat and scars are ahead of you, and how many other people you'll have to insult and do some kind of injustice to them, because that's the heat of political struggle. Let's get the state started. Look what's going on around us. They're arresting a lot of people. Some don't get arrested. Some are tied to the Democratic Party, no arrests. Some defend themselves from freedom, my dear lady, because they are in close contact with the Democratic Party. You don't think the people see it. You think people don't think about it. That's why I'm calling you, Mr. Beard. I know you were praised when Aligrudić was attacked and drawn to him by the cavemen, you were praised as a serious man. One took off, one pulled on, what they did to him I don't know. For you, I really think you're an extremely serious man. Where are you to chair this unconstitutional session? Give it to Albian, he can do anything. Albianic can chair, there is no Natasa Micic, and she can do anything she is ordered to do. Please treat the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia seriously. He's nobody's servant, he's nobody's stepdaughter, he doesn't do dirty work. This is a dirty job. Why does the trial have two-degree proceedings? Everything that doesn't have a second degree doesn't fit the law. Everything, and that the last will that you make here is not in accordance with the law. The Constitution does not provide for the Assembly to pass laws no longer discussed. Even the Assembly is subject to an assessment of the constitutionality of its work, not only when you do not. While he was Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, we did not have a Constitutional Court for 16 months. Kostunica, somewhere, has reached that record, I don't know if it's shorter or longer. Now you've come together, now it means we're going to add up about 32 months, we won't have a Constitutional Court, and you're going to work here and you're going to pass the laws. Imagine you choose the patron of the citizens, he sits down, and who will he initiate the procedure for? Here you let him worry not only about citizens' rights, but as any state authority, to run a constitutional assessment for any act, but in front of anyone? Who's he gonna write to? Who's he gonna talk to? Who's going to handle the performances of the citizens' protectors? Nobody! It's like that Shabic guy, and you singled him out to be some trustee, and then you whine him like Damian's vegetable, and he can't do anything, but nothing. What information did you give him? Never one. There's no one to praise. That's, I mean it very seriously. Well, it may not be for you, but I'm a witness that rocks like this when they get under the foundation of buildings fall. You're pulling the foundations under Serbia, and we'd rather draw the foundation under your authority. It is better for you to fall than for Serbia to fall, and then for us to win and for you to bring Serbia down. So please be serious. Now I'm telling you, the second you pass the law will be at the Constitutional Court's office for an assessment of its constitutionality, and then we'll see when the Constitutional Court will assess its constitutionality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-12-0.u2591	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the National MP, Nada Kolundzia, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens in Details. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we've finished discussing this agenda point, we're finishing today's workday. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
