ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Predrag Umičević, Vojislav Mihailović, Meko Omerović, Milan Vučković, Milos Jevtic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Nenad Canak, Nikola Novakovic, Balint Pastor and Riza Halimi. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (sumption in particular) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinović to Article 14. Part of the time was used. There are three minutes left for MP Zoran Krasic. Do you want to follow this amendment's word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Srdjan Sajn, together with Laslo Varga and Balint Pastor, Petar Cvetković, Nemanja Sarović and Raša Radovanović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Srdjan Shin submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing the introduction of a new article 1. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8976	Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to this article significantly helps protect legality and prevents any abuse by state authorities and holders of various powers. In the original, basic law of Article 57, which is deleted in the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law, paragraph 2 reads... I will read the whole of Article 57 to make it clear to you what is being said, and it is about the supervision of the laws of the public authority holders: "The public authority holder is required to have his opinion on the constitutionality and legality of the regulations before the publication of the regulations, and the ministry to provide him with a reasoned proposal on how to comply with the Constitution, the law, the other regulation or the general act of the National Assembly and the Government. "Station 2 says: "If the public authority holder does not act on a proposal from the ministry, it is up to the government to propose a solution to the suspension from the enforcement of the rules... ", here the government proposes that we put an end to it, and so far the part that says "and on it based individual acts and initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality" to delete. With our amendment, we leave the previous solution that was in force in the original law, i.e. the basic law, because we believe that in this way the protection of the law is far more precise and better done. For what? When a person adopts an act and a regulation that is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the competent ministry shall provide him with an explanation, i.e. provide him with instructions on how to act, we shall have a situation to suspend the execution, i.e. we stop the fact of only a basic act which was not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But what happens to all the other acts that are a derivative of the basic act? What happens to those lateral acts that will continue to be in force, although they have been made in fact on the basis of solutions that the Ministry of Control has found not to be the Constitution or the law, i.e. contrary to the Constitution or the law. We have a situation so that we can enter an illegal procedure, that we can have an illegal act that we, in fact, end the surveillance possibility. One unnecessary thing, harmful to the state. We simply think that it is better for the ministry to have powers and that it should have the authority to stop all side acts, that is, all acts created from the basic act which has been found to be not in conformity with the law. We think that in such a way it is much more likely to prevent any abuse and to allow for more significant and better control of the legality of the rules to be adopted. I'd like to hear the minister's opinion on this amendment. I think the amendment is correct, and in the previous law there was a solution. We think it's better than what's proposed by amendments and additions to the law. This confirms our will and willingness to exercise serious control over constitutionality and legality, regardless of who exercises authority or control. Of course, in our country, much cannot be done because we have no institutions to do so. We don't have a Constitutional Court, we don't have a Supreme Court, we have no Cassation Court, we have no other laws and regulations that should allow normal, constitutional and legal conduct of the state. We don't have them, because there's no serious will, no state, no majority. At this point my colleagues are dealing with other things, but rarely who will come out to say anything about this law. The opposition MPs will come out. I'd also like to hear colleagues from a position that will come out to say something about what we're talking about today, because I think it's important for the state. Of course, it would be much better if we had on the agenda to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, talk about serious and major problems that plague the state and try to help Serbian citizens live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8977	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vidoja Jovanovic appeared and then, following the amendment, MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8978	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure Articles 225 and 226. Yesterday, my colleague, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, raised a question of the government's relationship with the union of employees in the authorities, the judiciary and social organisations. We are witnesses that the board, judicial authorities and social organisations' union organized 11. 10th meeting in the House of Unions, followed by public protest in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 23rd. Ten. It is the material status of workers employed by the state administration, i.e. local administration, judicial authorities and social organisations. You're witnesses, we've passed the Government Act, we've brought amendments to the Civil Service Act, then the State Administration Act, etc. The main objective was depoliticalisation, professionalisation and modernisation of the state administration, i.e. local self-government. I ask one logical question, is local self-government in the current conditions in a level playing field with other institutions and public institutions in the Republic of Serbia? Certainly not, for reasons why the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services and the Regulation is not respected as a sublegal act. At a meeting held in the House of Trade Unions, a representative of the finance ministry said 60 municipalities do not respect the law. For these reasons, and also because of this protest and the address of the Union to the SPS with a request to launch this in the National Assembly, I'm asking the question - do we, after this protest, and off the record, know that none of the representatives of the government have received representatives of the unions of administration, justice and social organisations... I ask the question is whether the Government will establish a dialogue with the union, will it carry out an analysis of the application of the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, and that, therefore, there is a level playing field in relation to the existing situation, when it comes to receiving workers, both in local self-government and in state bodies and other institutions? What I'm saying is that the differences are huge. One question I would like to refer to the Ministry of Finance - whether the Ministry of Finance will have a more flexible relationship with the requirements of local self-government when it comes to increasing the volume of funds at the position of salaries and earnings of workers in the municipality, for one simple reason why we have the knowledge that such requests by the Ministry of Finance refuses and gives a negative answer, although there is a legal basis for this, there are also the government's conclusions on establishing the basis and the possibility of using funds. Love submitted one such request and received a negative answer, and there is room for the use of these funds. I therefore refer this question to the Ministry of Finance and use the minister's presence, given that union representatives also addressed the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Ministry of Finance and the government themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8979	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8980	The question raised by a colleague is very important. I'd like to say some information in two minutes. The fact that no one has received Mr. Possica and the union representatives is simply not true. I believe that when Mr. More difficult made that statement, he was a little excited, but he overlooked something I want to say now. First, on September 11th 2007, the State Secretary of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government attended a session of the Republican Union Committee. Then, 17. 09. In 2007, I spoke to Mr. Possica about all these issues, and we really had an extremely correct conversation. Practically, we agreed on all the topics, agreed that further work should be done to solve employees' problems. I spoke to Mrs. Slavica Zivanovic, president of the Justice Union on 24 September; then, with the president of the National Administration Union Milena Jovic; on 11 October 2007, the State Secretary of the Ministry attended a protest rally held at the Union House, held by the Independent Union. Since you asked me, I'm telling you, we had four meetings, we agreed on some joint steps. The problem isn't so simple. On the other hand, you know that this issue, regardless of the name of my ministry, is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and local self-government. I couldn't handle it. So, I'm not in charge of solving the employee's salary issue. There are other organs. There's a negotiating team, it's being run by the Legislative Secretariat, who is directly in charge of these issues. In any case, both Mr. Potretica and the union have received full support from the ministry, because we find their material status unsustainable and we think that, as soon as possible, the issue of salaries of civil servants and tenants must be resolved, given that the tenants in the governments of the Republic of Serbia are working for 15 or 16 thousand dinars, which is really unsustainable. Don't think, at least when it comes to the Department of State, that we don't see that problem and that we're not trying to solve it. I say again, even with Mr. Stimuli, we have jointly considered certain actions that would lead to this status being balanced, i.e. that the profit range is reduced from one to nine to one to six. It's just, I'm a little mad at Mr. Sneez. I tried to reach him, but he went abroad. I hope in a direct conversation with him I can resolve this question, because, I say, I believe it was incorrect. As far as an esteemed colleague is concerned, he's absolutely right. The proposal for a law has shown that individual acts are not covered by any supervision. We were signaled as soon as this proposal arrived in the process. Mr. Petar Cvetkovic has made an amendment that he covered, practically, what you just said. So your remark is completely justified. We accepted Mr Cvetkovic's amendment, which refers to individual acts of public authority holders based on general acts. I agree with you, Mr Cvetkovic's amendment has already been accepted, which covered it. You noticed correctly, i.e. Col. Sarovic noticed that there was also something that would include individual acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8981	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8982	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia foresees that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration. In fact, the only fundamental change in this Law on State Administration concerns the relations between the ministries and the government towards the authorities of autonomous provinces in the Republic of Serbia. Col. Sarović submitted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which concerns Article 57 of the applicable Law on State Administration, by which it has proposed that this member be deleted. I'll remind you of what's in Article 57. The Law on State Administration: ''The holder of public authority is obliged to obtain an opinion from the competent ministry on the constitutionality and legality of the rules, and the Ministry to provide him with a reasoned proposal on how to comply with the Constitution, the law, the other regulation or the general act of the National Assembly and the Government. If the public authority holder does not comply with the ministry's proposal, it is up to the government to propose a decision to suspend the enforcement of the rules... '"Now what the minister was talking about and the esteemed colleague Stefanovic, '... And on it based individual acts... '". That's what stood for. It is proposed to delete it in this article. The extension of the second position is 'and the initiation of the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of the regulations'. The third is said to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The constitution empowers the government to first take care of the constitutionality and legality of general acts of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade and public authorities. The government is obliged to suspend the implementation of a general act of the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, which it considers not to agree with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure for assessing its constitutionality and legality within five days. This is clearly in the Constitution of Serbia in Article 192, paragraph 1. Therefore, the government is not competent to suspend individual acts based on general acts from enforcement. As you heard from the minister, thanks to the amendment of Mr. Petar Cvetkovic, who the government has accepted, practically this situation is fully resolved, so that individual acts will also be adopted. I think it is a good solution, so I propose to the National Assembly not to vote on Mr. Sarovic's amendment in the day of voting, given that Mr. Cvetkovic has already covered it with his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8983	The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8984	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I wanted to go out in a way to replicate to you, or to say some other things that I don't think you've paid attention to. It's nice that you're in the mood, it's nice to meet and talk, but the question is, have you achieved something concrete in those arrangements? Talk can last and last, it can last for months. We are aware that there will be a budget proposal for next year, that all of this should fit the budget, the planned salary increase, and otherwise you stated that you would freeze wages. The union has set up a concrete proposal, that the government form a co-operation committee with the union in a parity number of union members and members of the government. Did you do that specifically? So every concrete deal has to go with some concrete conclusions. Tell us specifically what has been concluded, whether you will initiate an amendment and an addition to the Law on Salaries, because if you remember, the Socialist Party of Serbia had in the previous session such an amendment to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies and wanted to prevent such a situation from becoming 1 :6 ratio. If there was a good will then, it wouldn't have come to this. Will you put out of force the existing law and initiate amendments and additions to that law that will solve this issue? I want to say one more thing, it has to work faster, because there's a budget law coming up, and since this union announced the next protest for the end of the month, if I'm not mistaken on October 31st, let's talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8985	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Željko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President, I report to members 225 and 226. I'd like to take advantage of Mr. Secretary's presence and draw attention to a very unpleasant situation that is happening in the Medvedz Municipality Assembly. Mr. Minister, I would like some attention, because it is very important, because there has been a violation of the international relations between Serbs and Albanians in the Medvedje municipality, and all of this comes from the work of the Assembly of the Municipality. I've heard from people, I've mentioned many of the problems that arise in the Medvedz Municipality Assembly, but I'm going to tell you something concrete now and you'll see that the silent event that took place two days ago has a background in it, so please take a look at what happens in the work of the Medvedz Municipality. At the meetings of the Medvedje Assembly, individual Albanian national minority councils are very often threatened by the Serbian Nationalities' committees using words - you will not apply your head on our shoulders, we will solve with sticks and knives all the problems we have. This applies even to certain MPs from the Serb people's order. Namely, what happened? I don't know if you've read about it in the paper, on October 20th, 2007 Mr. Goran Simic was beaten on the doorstep of his house and he suffered serious physical injuries to the axe handle. Only by the happy circumstances did Mr Simic remain alive. Namely, that this is due to some threats from the assembly session of the municipality is evident because on the basis of reasonable doubt, Jaha Burim and Nazim Muratovic were arrested and freedoms were deprived. Please really try in the domain of your jurisdiction to see what's going on in the work of the Bear Community Assembly and let's see if we can work this out. The second part concerns Interior Minister Mr. Jocic, whom I have already provided with some documents that a certain group of Albanians are terrorising over the Serb majority there. One of these Muratovic attacked the owner of the independent shop Dragan Trajkovic on October 24th and inflicted serious physical injuries on her, refusing to settle his debts to her. What else does it matter? It is important that these Mr Muratovici, who appear to be the main terrorists in the municipality, have the support of the president of the municipality and, with his help, write to OSCE representatives, international institutions and try to replace the the thesis of terror. I think Mr. Jocic would really have reason to deal with this issue a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8987	The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8988	Dear People's MPs, I want to understand Mr. Minister that he has no direct responsibility for this state he is, but Mr. Secretary must be interested in standing up for the resolution of this issue in order for the state administration, the judicial authorities and the local self-government to function in accordance with the law and to carry out the tasks entrusted to them by law. On the other hand, we passed the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I have pointed out here about one member of the Law, and it was an increase of 10% in 2007 compared to the amount of funding from 2006, when it comes to receiving and earning workers, and I said it would produce a problem. What do I want to say? The finance ministry has had a steady practice that the allowed volume has increased since 2005 and municipalities have been in different situations. Some have realistically planned resources to earn workers. Some planned far more than they needed, and when the law came, they froze those funds and found themselves in different situations. I therefore appeal to the Government, for the simple reason that some who did not comply with the law were rewarded and punished by those who respected the decadent law, to consider, to look at the application of the law in the present situation and to try to resolve the issue in order to avoid consequences in the authorities of local administration, in the judiciary and social organisations. I'm appealing because I've received information that there will be another protest on the 30th of this month. I just want to say that the government's staff is the lowest salary of 12,000, and the highest, with high professional equipment, 22,779 dinars. I also point out that the cost of the basket is 17,000 dinars. Where are these men with a salary of 12,000? So I urge the Government and the Ministry of Finance to again, before some moves by the unions and to call for a strike that they are announcing, although the law does not allow workers in the authorities of the administration and the judiciary to strike, to see this possibility and take measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8989	National MP Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8990	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, I suggest that the National Assembly not accept the amendment of the National MP Radovan Radovanovic to Article 3. A bill of state administration, because it's pointless. First of all, I would like to say that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 186, gives the Government the right to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the decision of the Autonomous Province before the decision comes into force. Article 3 The bill proposes that the title above Articles 71 and 71 be changed by voting - Aging on the legality of decisions taken by autonomous provinces in their work. In Article 71(1), it states that the ministries shall monitor the constitutionality and legality of decisions taken by autonomous provinces in their district and in paragraph 2 that the Autonomous Province Authority is obliged to deliver the decision to the competent ministry within 24 hours, which shall be required to propose to the Government within 48 hours to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the decision if it considers that it is not in accordance with the Constitution or the law. Of course, Article 3 states: "If the Government initiates proceedings for the assessment of constitutionality or the legality of the decision within 72 hours, the Constitutional Court may delay the entry into force of the contested decision until it has decided to postpone its entry into force. "The senselessness is that here is a suggestion to delete a title without proposing a change of title. In the technical application of any law and any legal act, this legal technique is always used to indicate the title, for reasons of better application in practice. As for attitude 2, which says the Autonomous Province Authority is obliged to deliver the decision to the competent ministry within 24 hours, the matter is that the ministry could at all monitor the work of the Autonomous Province's authorities and the adoption of these acts, the ministry would have to obtain the act. So here is a clear basic motive for the promoter to prevent the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the government's right to monitor the legality and constitutionality of acts adopted by an autonomous province, in fact, in an indirect manner by not being able to apply the provisions of the Constitutional Law for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8991	The People's MPs Lasslo Varga and Pastor Balint submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8992	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill provides that the Autonomous Province's body is required to deliver the decision to the competent ministry within 24 hours. We think it's the introduction of a tutorship over the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, as well as colleagues from the Vojvodjanski MEPs, have proposed that the positions of the 2nd and 3rd members be deleted. I think that prescribing this obligation to the provincial authorities puts the AP Vojvodina in a completely subordinate position. The prescribing of this obligation is unnecessary, and that is because if any ministry wants to control the legality or constitutionality of the AP Vojvodina decisions, it can do so if it follows an AP Vojvodina Official Journal in which all acts of the AP Vojvodina are published. The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that the absence of a deadline within which the AP Vojvodina Authority is required to challenge the government's decision to deliver to the competent ministry the possibility of considering the decision of the AP Vojvodina authority before the decision comes into force. I have to say, even the proposed solution doesn't provide for this, but, of course, the proposed solution doesn't have a goal. On the one hand, the government, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as DS, G17 plus, the DSS, who will vote against this amendment, have a clear goal of showing AP Vojvodina, the citizens of Vojvodina who represent the authority in Serbia, where the government is in Serbia, who is in charge. On the other hand, support for this solution by these parties clearly shows what weight certain statements by Bojan Pajtic, the president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina or Vice-President G 17 plus Ivana Dulic-Markovic when they talk about the autonomy of Vojvodina. It is obvious that their views do not match the official policy of their parties. This must be made clear and loud about this pay phone. On the third hand, and this is the strongest evidence that the legislator's intention was not to ensure the control of the legality and constitutionality of the AP Vojvodina decisions, the proposed solution itself contains one obvious legal void. Namely, pursuant to Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts, as well as the general acts of autonomous provinces, enter into force at the earliest eighth day of publication, but may take effect earlier, if there are particularly justified reasons. Therefore, if the Autonomous Region Authority provides for the entry into force of the same decision on the day of publication and its publication immediately prior to the delivery to the competent ministry, the Government would thus not be able to initiate any procedure before the date of entry into force of this decision, as the decision is already in force at that time. On this issue, this legal gap was referred to by the Committee on Justice and there all the members of the Committee agreed to this finding. And I signaled to the minister that this problem exists. Of course, he didn't take any steps. I don't think it's too late to solve this problem by accepting this amendment. When in serious countries, the minister proposes a solution that clearly contains a legal void, then resigns or accepts an amendment that corrects the problem solution. So I call on Mr. Minister to accept this amendment for these reasons, because this solution in practice will be simply inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8993	The word is made by Minister Markovic, and then by this amendment, MP Branislav Nedimovic and MP Jovan Palalic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8994	Mr. President, we've already had one discussion on this subject and I have to repeat what I said back then. Unlike the previous law, when the government was able to suspend the execution of a general act of an autonomous province, the government can no longer do so. This is such a step forward, a step towards protecting Vojvodina's autonomy, that I really don't understand why you're saying this is some kind of tutorship. No way, the government can no longer suspend, and here, before and today, the government could practically suspend the implementation of the AP Vojvodina Act, but we don't want that. We want to say he can't stop, and according to the provisions of the law, he can't stop. We're just looking for one thing, and that's, I don't know if it's that hard, that the Autonomous Province's organ when it brings that general act to the government. That's really not a problem. Why do you say that's impossible in practice? It's impossible only if someone doesn't want to report such an act. To tell you the truth, I don't think that's going to be a problem if we're all democratic, normal people, we want to work together. Under the provisions of this law, only the Constitutional Court may, until a decision has been taken, delay the entry into force of that contested decision, but this shall also apply to any other decision. The Constitutional Court may postpone the entry into force of any decision in this State. There is no decision that the Constitutional Court cannot... That goes for the AP Vojvodina. I'm really surprised by this argument. I repeat, if the National Assembly adopts this law, no one but the Constitutional Court will be able to suspend, or delay, the execution of the General Act of the AP Vojvodina. If this law is not passed, the solution that is now in force remains that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can suspend the general act of the AP Vojvodina. I think this is a big step forward. I'm really sorry you brought up the president of the province's government, Mr. Pitiæ. It is also his credit that there is no longer a possibility for the Republic government to suspend the general acts of the province, or suspend them from execution. I think it's a big shift, that this is in accordance with the Constitution, and I don't think that you really need to accept your amendment. Regardless of what you think is such a terrible problem right now, here, to inform each other, I will believe that we will have good co-operation, as we do now and that tomorrow, if you are the secretary or president of the circuit council or anything else, we will have good co-operation, as I have now with the president of the province government, with Mr. Korheco, who, if I am not mistaken, is from your party and with Mr. Regional Secretary for Local Self-Government. I really can't believe someone thinks there's gonna be a problem just letting each other know about something we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8995	The People's MP Branislav Nedimovic has the word, then the People's Messenger Jovan Palalic, and then the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8996	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Administration, concerning Article 71 and the amendments tabled by colleagues Laslo Varga and Balint Pastor, I would like to start by saying what kind of a solution is foreseen by amendments to the Law on State Administration. Article 71 says the ministries monitor the constitutionality and legality of decisions taken by autonomous provinces in their work. Article 2 states that the Autonomous Province Authority is obliged to deliver the decision to the competent ministry within 24 hours, which is required to propose within 48 hours to the Government to initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the decision if it does not consider that it is in conformity with the Constitution or the law. It is also said that if the Government initiates a constitutional procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the decision within 72 hours, the Constitutional Court may decide to postpone the entry into force of the contested decision. The existing Law on State Administration in a different way regulated this whole matter by putting aside the decisions of the Autonomous Province's authority. I think the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has gone one step further, and in particular these amendments and additions to the law go one more step further in this whole matter. Imagine a situation to erase Article 71, paragraph 2, and Article 3. I will now tell you that this member of the 71st ministry would follow the constitutionality and legality of decisions made by autonomous provinces in their work. And nothing more. What are we gonna do, then? What can we do? We don't have any provisions that talk about deadlines, then it can happen in 100 years, the whole thing. If the amendment of counterparts Balint Pastor and Lasla Varge were accepted, there would be one bare norm that would not have its own particularisation. I absolutely do not dispute the fact that this correspondence can be a potential problem, but it is necessary. There must be co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of territorial autonomy, i.e. in particular in this case you are talking about the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the general acts adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. I simply cannot accept that fact that without deadlines, we can function in this part. I have another proposal for the ministry to consider a further situation in the future, and it can occur as extreme, which is that perhaps if a decision comes into force immediately, there may be potential problems. You should think about it. I am not saying that this will be a rule and that the extreme should always be sanctioned in the beginning, simply, we should let these provisions, which are provided for by amendments to the Government Act, come to life and see what practice will be, so if necessary, the Government will propose, and so can MPs, and we will propose such an amendment, that is, to amend and supplement the government's decision to address this particular situation. I don't think in this particular case there's room for the fear that you've made, or that you want to explain these amendments, because it's the Constitutional Court that can decide on the constitutionality and legality of this decision, and the government just serves as some kind of technical service that passes this whole thing to the Constitutional Court. I'd like to invite all my fellow MPs from all my MPs, and I can see that some of them are nodding on my head, and they'll probably vote when the time comes. I think this proposal is an amendment to the State Administration Act in this part of the way forward and let us move forward, not leave a norm that means nothing to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8997	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Rakovac, and then the messenger of the people, Laszlo Varg.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8998	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think this is a very important discussion about the amendments tabled by the MPs, our distinguished colleagues, because in some ways the constitutional principle, more specifically, the right of citizens to province autonomy, but also an important principle of control over the constitutionality and legality of general acts, both the provinces and local self-government. The essence of this discussion is how the government, more specifically, the competent ministry, may have the knowledge that the province, i.e. that the province's competent authority, has adopted an act and, given the importance and jurisdiction of the province, within which time it is estimated that there has been a breach of constitutionality and legality can be initiated before the Constitutional Court. The essential question is that all this would work if there were no deadlines, what would be the obligation of the regional autonomy authority to deliver the decision to the ministry and to carry out the supervision at all. In that regard, the very standard of supervision of constitutionality and legality would become practically empty norm without the possibility of effective application and implementation. So, in addition to what we have fought together during the referendum campaign for the adoption of the Constitution, to extend the right of citizens to rural autonomy and to be more comprehensive, to extend the province's competences and also to be in significant scope of the larger rural budget, thus increasing the importance of that right that citizens have; the impact of decisions taken at the level of the province on a specific life of citizens is also increasing, and the danger of illegal and unconstitutional decisions made by such an authority, or such autonomy as rural autonomy, is becoming more significant. In this regard, it is important that these short deadlines, in order to prevent possible illegalities, which would result in adverse consequences for the citizens of the AP, are as soon as possible. In this regard, the very good solution proposed by these amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration is a very good solution. A specific obligation of the competent authority of the province autonomy is known. The competent ministry reacts within a very short period of time, and then, which was spoken by the minister with full law, given how we raised the question of the right to autonomy and in the Constitution itself, only the Constitutional Court can appreciate the issue of constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the province's autonomy. In this regard, I propose, regardless of the opinions expressed here, that this amendment is not accepted, that a good norm of Article 71 will be retained in this form, because in the best possible way, regardless of what appears to be the subject of the amendment, the right of citizens to the province autonomy given to them in that scope in the now applicable Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The president. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u8999	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessors have quite clearly and well explained why this amendment should be rejected and why the text that the Government has offered is good, why it does not need to be changed. However, I noticed something that I think should be pointed out. Namely, we had two amendments to this article of the bill: the previous, MP Radovanovic, who asked to delete only the position of the 2nd member and the amendment currently discussed by the MPs Lassla Varge and the Balint Pastor who asked to be deleted both Article 2 and Article 3. So we had two amendments about erasing attitude 2. Whether it's a coincidence or not, let them think about it, but it's indicative that there's one such advocate for eradicating attitude 2. I would draw attention if it were impossible to accept this amendment. If this amendment were to be accepted, we would deprive both the Government and the Constitutional Court of their obligations arising from the Constitution. Clearly, it's in Article 176. The Constitution provides for supervision of the work of the Autonomous Province Authority and of Articles 2 and 3. Article 1 is very clear – the government is overseeing, i.e. the ministry that monitors the constitutionality and legality of acts that bring autonomous provinces, and as far as these deadlines are concerned, it was quite well explained here. So, your amendment, even if there was a goodwill in this assembly, cannot be accepted because we would thus deprive two very important institutions in this country of their jurisdiction, which is absolutely impossible. Their powers come directly from the Constitution, and this is just the development of these constitutional provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9000	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9001	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary... Mr. President, please consider the three or four replicas I would now have when calculating the time. Of course, I won't use that time. Mr. Varga, I can tell you that you have 10 minutes left. Here you go. That's great, thank you. I have a replica of my colleagues from the DSS. I think we need to get some facts straight. On the one hand, the Constitution is not bound by the obligation of the province's authorities to deliver these decisions. That's a few seconds or minutes ago, if I'm not mistaken, at this pay phone I was told. That's not true. On the other hand, the question has been raised - how could the Government or the Constitutional Court have knowledge of possible illegal or anti-constitutional decisions of the AP Vojvodina? That's what I gave the answer to. Simply, all competent ministries should read the "Official Journal of the AP" and thus be able to monitor the legality of these acts. We've suggested that this end of the procedure be lifted. Of course, on the basis of Article 168. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a regular procedure. Simply, if our amendment were accepted and these two positions were deleted, then the Government and the Constitutional Court would have, on the basis of Article 168, in a regular procedure, the possibility of assessing the constitutionality and legality of acts of the AP Vojvodina. In his presentation, Mr. Minister tried to respond primarily to the political part of the reasoning of this amendment, but he did not respond to that legal part. In fact, he was not talking about whether he agrees with the fact that this solution itself contains one valid legal content. In the event that the Autonomous Province Authority makes a decision, predicts the entry into force of the decision immediately, the same decision shall be announced immediately, so before the deadline of 24 hours, what happens then? I think the legislator should also answer this question, because it is not good to pass laws that are in practice inapplicable. Of course, this ministry has repeatedly shown that it does not aim to bring regulations to apply them later. On 24 September 2005, the State Administration Act, which states in its Article 39 that the Government is obliged to determine the areas of the administrative districts so as to allow for the rational and effective work of the branch units of the state administration. Until the government's election, the previous government, the previous ministry was responsible for implementing this law, and Mr Markovic has been directly responsible for it since 15 May. Of course, this provision does not apply. Namely, the three Bačvan municipalities - Ada, Senta and Kanjiža are still within the administrative district's borders, based in Kikinda, which is called the Northbonat County. We're not familiar with the fact that the Tisa River has changed its course, so I think it's completely pointless for these municipalities to be within the borders of the Northobanian Management District. On the other hand, the fact is it's a violation of the law. Do not try to explain to anyone that this solution allows the rational and effective work of the district departmental units of the state administration, when some citizens, instead of travelling ten minutes to Saturday, from the territory of the municipality of Kanjiž, Senta or Ada, have to travel an hour and a half or two to Kikinda. I think this is a completely obvious violation of this law. I ask the Minister a question - when will the Ministry, or he himself, propose to the Government to amend the Regulation on administrative environments in order to remove this recorded illegality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9002	Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposings Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9003	I apologize for taking my word at the end, I just wanted to say that the boundaries of the administrative districts are not determined by the Law on Territorial Organization. Therefore, the border of administrative districts determines the Government by its regulation. Just don't impute that question to me. Also, as for the laws that are here on the agenda, I come forward on behalf of the government, but you know well that the public knows, don't impute your relationship to the laws again, I didn't make them. Therefore, it is not the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government responsible for the laws that are now on the agenda. This is the responsibility of the Legislative Secretariat, and it is the legislator of these laws, i.e. the Government is the Proposer, but is the author of the Legislative Secretariat. Just please, don't really... Although I stand entirely behind these laws, but since you want to say that we can't make them, I'm telling you that we didn't even make them. I'd just like to ask you to take care of it. I really hope, to conclude, that the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the republican authorities and the authorities of the autonomous province are taking one up line. I truly believe that this is one big step forward, therefore, this solution contained in the Bill on Amendments to the Law on State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9004	I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Laws on Payments of Civil Servants and PUBLICS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments of Rade and Aleksandar Martinović on the bill of law. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments mentioned. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Law on the Salaries of Civil Servants and Peasants, as the famous Balinovac called them in his legal project in 2006, with Boris Tadic in effect on 19 July 2006. We Serbian radicals were against this law because in the process of passing here we had a bile debate. That's what my colleague Markovic knows. I say colleague, because at that time he was a National MP and vice president. We felt that this way, by adopting this law, the possibility is created that in the future process of systematicisation, I am specifically talking about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it happened, and there have been many injustices. It is now an opportunity for the amendment of the Faith to work on Article 53. The law harmonizes this amendment with the basic text of the law. Unlike some others who pose as your legalists, we Serbian radicals respect the law that is in force and we want everyone to rule and act against it. The fact that we have strong and firm arguments (some of them I will present today) that we vote against these laws does not oblige us, nor amnest us from responsibility the next day until we change that law, we come to power; it is not a hypothesis but a reality, but until it comes to the agenda, for a month or two days until we are in a position to completely change this law, we must, therefore, apply all existing laws. We will be effective in putting aside the strength of many laws, and make sure that the citizens of Serbia can't wait for it, especially in the area of economics and social policy, these harmful laws that have left over a million people out of work, laws that have made citizens live on the edge of poverty and poverty today. Do not make, conditionally speaking, the cripples of people, highly qualified and professional, who worked in the services of both the Government and the National Assembly, by applying, and selectively, because it is obvious that this law, which was designed by the Balinovac and which was voted by the National Assembly in July 2006. My colleague, Ms. Radeta, is as a National MP and a lawyer, above all, from the fact that the amendments and the addition of the law must be consistent with the basic text of the law, and I have to read to you. In the 2006 Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, it is important that we remind ourselves of Article 21, since it is related to this Article 53 and to the request of a colleague, Radeta, to apply it from 1 January 2007. So, if the law is passed in July 2006, and we are today making an amendment and supplementing and amending this Article 53, then why not apply from 1 January, when the basic text of the law is applied. The 21st said, "The state official who has been transferred from office to an executive post because of the time he has been placed on or because he has resigned or because of his position being abolished", which is numerous cases, "the coefficient of the highest paying class of the paying group in which he is transferred is determined. "Then, article 53 of the basic law says: "From 1 January 2007, the coefficients are determined in the following way," and then it is said of these persons: "1) appointed and appointed persons whose jobs become positions - according to the pay group in which their place of work is located; 2) government officials in the executive jobs - according to the first paying class of the paying group in which their job is located; 3) the managers of the internal units - according to the third paying class of the paying group in which their job is located; 4) the tenants - according to the paying group in which their job is located. "Here, in the amendment and addition of the Law, it is said that after this article I have read to you that Article 53a is added: "State officials at the executive post who had the status of posted persons", for example, formerly the deputy secretary of the Assembly, "who do not operate the internal unit, determine the coefficient according to the eighth paying class of the paying group in which their job is located. "What's the problem now? It is necessary to bring this Article 53a into line with January 1st, since the Article 53rd and the Law apply. How can you now amend and supplement the law so selectively, supplement it, which was also necessary because of these people who have remained so finished, so to speak, without handling the fact since the law was applied? That's really incredible and illogical. What did we get as an explanation of the government? I believe, Mr. Minister, that you didn't write it, because if you did, it's one sentence that doesn't mean anything. The government's explanation does not cover all cases that have arisen in practice. What cases? Let's get out of it and tax-list them. It is not the law, or Article 53, or this additional 53a, that covered everything. There's really been a lot of interference since this law was passed. Systematization was done as it was done. People are waiting for this injustice to be corrected in some way and for me to apply this law... I repeat again, we were specifically against him, because we believe that earlier regulations were quite enough for this area to be brought into line, but, behold, to them, this mentioned Balinovac and the previous government of Kostunica, it occurred to them to pass one of these laws. In most cases, they have played with the fates of many people, who have been demoted, which are officials, which are tenants. To ask them what their salaries are and how difficult these people live and what rank some of them are, especially those who have the status of tenants... Therefore, there is no reason why this member you add, 53a, where the position of people is explained, is not in line with the application of the Law of 1 January 2007. By the way, then you didn't have to come here to change this one member at all. What does that mean now, we're changing it, but now it doesn't matter when that law is passed; or is that Balinche's ex-post mind, so he remembered, because in practice they showed all these cases? And in reason, the government says -- not all of them are included. I'm asking you again, what cases aren't covered? I think it would be your turn to accept this amendment from my colleague, Radeta, if it had just gone over him. After all, you as a lawyer and as a minister of state administration must know, since you are not talking here about local self-government, which you are otherwise against, Mr Markovic, that the only way is for a law in a functional sense, in a legal sense, to have its own application in the right sense if it is stated since when this article is applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9006	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9007	Dear fellow MPs, the SPS also wants to point to a number of social injustices that are caused precisely by the adoption of one such law, i.e. by such provisions and by members of this law. First of all, we would like to point out something that has been shown in later practice, which is that to a large extent, the politicization of all these workers and all these structures of workers has been done, and under the very other explanation that depolitisation is being carried out. In practice so far, it has been learned that all these amendments and additions to the law have been passed exactly in line with the most important party interests of the ruling parties in the country, and never in line with the state interests, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. State interests always looked so much at each other, and to this end they met if they were to fit in with the narrow party interests. Why do I say that? First of all, most of the members of all these laws, this package of laws we're talking about today, are not applicable without the Constitutional Court. They're practically imaginary. Many of these members are imaginary because the final instance is the Constitutional Court, which needs to solve many things. But that's why it joined in rewarding political people, and that was what was the point. We remember this summer how the 400 people who were probably politically responsible were rewarded, had no other merits, so they had to be placed in new jobs, but unfortunately, not only in new jobs, but also in the jobs of those who were brought in by the political arches in the previous assembly, so some of them disappeared temporarily or permanently from the political scene, we will see, and some who were not satisfied by these arches. The question is, who are these special ministry advisors, what do they do, do they have to come to work and come to work and can they just correspondence by email with their offices? In this way, pre-election promises have been fulfilled, but not to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but promises made to people who have implemented a particular policy for a particular party. Then you came to think of it, the government came to think of it, she put all the officers in one basket, because many of these structures of workers had to be taken away to add to some. Of course, as capitalist laws say, a small number are being rewarded, a huge number of people are being discouraged; that is why you have this protest of members of the union in the administration, the judiciary and other public organisations. I've told you before, I'm not going to repeat that story now, but the fact is that today, in these conditions, as in the country, most often these people are the only ones who make money in the family, they bring income. With such small salaries, which you want to freeze for next year, they are on the verge of existence, all of their families; it is even a question of whether they will have bread, because we know what the minimum consumer basket is, how much they earn, my colleague Vidoje said. On the other hand, you have those who are too rewarded and who are enough and that one salary to live well. The most dissuaded are those people who make up the core of a state, who form the essence of a state, those people who are directly incomeming into the state budget. These people don't just work in offices, these people work both in the field, day and night, and in the rain, snow and sun, and in the freezers and in the cargo yards, and you've made the most of them unsettled, you've taken the most from their wages, you've given them the lowest coefficients, and you've put them against those rich people who've been rich mostly on the bill of obligations to the state. In other words, to make it clear to Serbian citizens, those who avoid the obligation to pay taxes to the state. That is why they regularly meet their obligations to political parties or their pre-election campaigns. On the other hand, you have in those same services those rewarded, which are given higher coefficients, higher wages. Instead of giving them a bigger work assignment, more complex work obligations, they are reduced work tasks; and the norms have been increased to these others who are discouraged, and so on. So you actually became a regime that treats one as a stepmother, to others as a mother. You're a stepmom, not to mention pensioners and everyone else, now you want to be a stepmom and the highest number of civil servants and tenants. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as I said, has also tabled an amendment in its earlier term due to a large range of 1-9 coefficients where someone receives 12-13 thousand and someone much more. Unfortunately, there are also people in this house, workers who receive under 12-13 thousand dinars, but that's why, by sharing the solutions of one you drove to the emperors, and most of them to beggars. Your solutions, which were not written on the merits of work, but by some other arches, by some similarity, you have determined who will buy only bread for members of his family and who will buy bread and meat. In the past, everyone said that the predecessors had increased that clerk's apparatus, that he was too congested, and what did you do when you came to power? There are several tens of thousands of new workers in that same machine. Unfortunately, these are not new jobs, there are few new jobs, there are more jobs that you took away from those who are in adulthood, which you forced to take social programs because they are technological surpluses. The SPS believes that these are not social programmes, but are programmes for demeaning people, a way to get these people out of work, because it is humiliating that in most cases you have given them 100-200 euros for the year. To judge what he was doing and what it's worth in a year's time, it's really embarrassing and the Socialist Party of Serbia couldn't agree on that either. You drove these people into retirement, you brought some younger ones, I agree, but not to help the entire youth, but to make your own political youth. I don't mind making a political youth, if necessary, but not at the expense of people who have worked for so many years, 20, 30 years, and they've been retired, and then they've been expelled from their jobs, others have been brought in, and they're aware that no one's going to take them to a new job. That's something to take care of. Have you improved the efficiency of your services? You're not. We've got new agencies, we've got new offices, but the efficiency of these agencies and offices, that state apparatus, is getting smaller and smaller. Let me give you an example, that's for the end of this exposure. In fact, we were all able to read the article in "Kurir" on October 17th that the journalists "Kurira" went to a few dozen pharmacies in Belgrade and found a drug that was to be withdrawn from traffic, which the health ministry said had to withdraw from traffic and warned the public that the drug did not buy. Asking reporters why the drug is in the pharmacy, drug workers said they didn't have any document that the medicine should be withdrawn. They asked the Ministry what happened. The ministry said - yes, we made a decision to withdraw on the basis of a statement by the Agency for Medicinal Products that the medicine is in the registration process, but that it is not registered and that it cannot be placed on the market. They said they were talking to the Grand Drug Association, and that's where their intelligence stopped. The association of drugstores said nothing, and they also assigned a health inspection task to oversee the withdrawal of the drug. In addition, all these agencies, all these associations, etc., the medicine is still in use. That's the point of how the state authorities function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9008	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic and then by MP Vladan Batic. You have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far we have been able to make sure that Mr. Milan Markovic is underly understood in the portfolio he is headed, but since the government has ordered him to present today in the National Assembly a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants, I am interested in a legal question. The bill mentions some civil servants at executive jobs who once had the status of appointed persons. While the old law on labour relations was in force in the state authorities, the status of posted persons had only those persons in the state administration who had been appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the new concept of working relations in state authorities, civil servants in executive jobs are not any officials, so I am interested in how a parallel is established between civil servants who are now in executive jobs and those who once had the status of appointed persons. State officials who were once appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia today are not civil servants in executive jobs, but civil servants are in position. I don't think what it says in these amendments and the additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants is in line with the basic concept of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and, in general, with the new concept of working relations in state bodies. I will later take the opportunity to report and discuss the amendment that I tabled on this bill, and I will also meet the people's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia with what it looks like to us as the state administration since the DOS in an unconstitutional way took over power in the Republic of Serbia on 5 October 2000, until today. Just to introduce you, Mr. Minister, these are not data from the Serbian Radical Party. The data is quite objective and probably mitigates the real situation that exists in Serbia. That's your Department of State and Local Self-Government's data, that's World Bank data. Citizens watching TV broadcasts and MPs will be able to see how the state administration grew, how the number of civil servants increased, and how our countries fell in return. Yesterday, I said, DOS buried two states, SRJ and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Instead of reducing the state administration, according to the reduction of state territory, the state administration is growing. If Mr. Milan Markovic could give us some too many answers, I would be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9010	The word has been given by MP Vladan Batic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9011	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say, on behalf of the DHSS, that this law cannot be corrected by amendments. His basic text is so bad we could use a whole new law. This shows the relationship of the ruling coalition to civil servants, according to one area, one topic and many human fates that deserve much better treatment and much better status. I witness this every day in justice institutions, in the prosecutions, in courts, in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, in the authorities of the administration; people working there are on the verge of existence. Their position is miserable. Their status sucks. When you say civil servants, it should be proud, convincing and classy to sound. Here we have one paradox to that extent... I know it's going to sound a little demagogue and it wasn't a much better situation at a time when I was, say, a minister of justice, but in any case, it was absolutely and incomparably better. Every day, without the desire to boast, every day when I go to court, the prosecution, people with nostalgia remember that time and say, "This is a disaster." So, how much money is so much music. Young fellow, why are you impatient? You can go out; otherwise, when you say something, it's like His word. I'm not stopping you, but listen. So, it's a very serious thing, a huge number of people, and I think all of the parliamentary groups have received this letter from employees, organised unions in the authorities of the administration, in the bodies of the judiciary, we all face it. It's a serious situation. However, there seems to be no real atmosphere here either. And otherwise, there's no real atmosphere in the congregation. Otherwise, which I asked the President of the Assembly, although he was not there at that moment, the Honorable Minister, I think that everything that is happening today in Serbia and in this Parliament is about the elections and I am asking the question again, and the answer deserves to know at least the MPs deserve all the citizens of Serbia. Approximately, this comes down to time or a waste of time, and obviously beneath the surface are the main topics of choice. I'm asking, and that's what I expect the President of Parliament to answer, and we're getting some answers through the means of information, but they're still ratty, vague, and the campaign's started... It was said -- elections until the new year. Now you don't know if it'll be sooner or after the new year. Will the Constitutional Law be changed? Whether a set of laws that precedes election laws will be passed – foreign affairs, defences, the military, and then laws on the election of the President of the Republic, the city of Belgrade, the province, etc. Mr. President, let's cut this situation down. I know it doesn't depend on you very well and that it depends on political trade. It's like some kind of overrun. Now we're talking about a subject that's serious, but we can see there's no energy for serious debate. It either comes down to the senseless advertising of the Rules of Procedure, or like this to one apathy, that we may pass the time. Let's answer that question and know what to do. Otherwise, when it comes to the set of these laws, as a former minister and as a colleague of Minister Markovic, I have one well-intentioned suggestion. You can't, Mr. Markovic, say, if the laws are wrong and they're not well written - I didn't write them, but they were written by Balinovac. Then in the second sentence you say - but I stand by these laws in everything. That's worse. You'd better keep your mouth shut, so if it's bad and if you're writing, it's not important, but you admit you're behind something that's wrong. I think your argument is a little missing. I'm really well-intentioned. I hear colleagues who are now wooding and stones at Balinovac, and when we discussed here, they didn't say a word; now, Balinov's laws, projects, his solutions, etc. I think it's our fault; not only did we drive off the Balinian, we should have sent his laws away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9012	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's how Mr. Milan Markovic behaves, it's the best picture, there's nothing to be said; I can leave the pay phone right now, he said about myself. But since I am not only talking to Minister Milan Markovic, but to the MPs, who I will try to convince in the sense of my amendment, I will still say a few sentences. Article 196(4) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the laws and other regulations and general acts enter into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and can only come into force earlier if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The Serbian Radical Party believes that there is no legal basis for such a formulation and that this law, like all other laws, should enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The government, as the legislator and Minister Milan Markovic, as the government's authorised representative, did not convince us that there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law since the deadline prescribed by Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the law should enter into force within that regular constitutional deadline, which is the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We don't see what's going to happen dramatically, so the law has to come into force sooner. Will security, public order and peace be compromised, security of the state? If there's going to be a major hoarse, accident, etc. if the law enters into force within the time limit prescribed by the Constitution? So the government didn't convince us, and we don't think there's any room for early entry into force. During my previous report, I said I would try to present to Minister Markovic a picture of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, as it has looked since the DOS took over. I must remind the People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transfer to the DOS leaders' promise before they came to power – when we come to power we will fully settle the situation in the state, we will in a new way regulate the state administration, it will be effective, rational, less costing citizens of Serbia and the state will work better. Those are the words. If you pay attention to numbers, then you will see that the situation is quite different from that represented by all the Ministers of State Administration from 2000 to today. According to the Department of State and Local Self-Government... As you can see, these aren't SRS data, we didn't write that; so the condition can only be worse, not better than these numbers that I'm going to read to you now. According to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, on 31 August 2001, 8,099 persons worked in the republican authorities except the Ministry of State Administration and the related institutions, the General Secretariat and the Government's services and the Republic Authority for Joint Affairs, of which 171 appointed persons and 7,928 employees. Not three years later, on 31 March 2004, therefore, right after the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, was increased by just over three times. The number of persons appointed, trainees, employed indefinitely and for a certain time, who worked in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, without the MUP, was 27,238. If these data are compared with the World Bank's figures on the number of employees in the European countries between 1999 and 2001, there is an unequivocal conclusion that the Serbian state administration is pre-named, i.e. that the number of persons working in the state administration is above the European average. For example, the number of employees in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia is higher than in Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, although all these countries, except Finland, are also countries in transition. Comparative data on the participation of employees and officials in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia and Central and Eastern European countries in the total volume of public spending are also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. During 2004, the Republic of Serbia recorded a higher participation of the profit fund in the total volume of public spending than in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. A higher percentage of Serbia had only Greece, Croatia and Slovenia. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of state administration in the Republic of Serbia is extremely difficult. The state administration is massive, extremely expensive, and it is extremely inefficient. There's no rational justification for the fact that our country is shrinking from year to year, and that the state administration is increasing. This is the 2004 data. To remind you, there was then a 2004 Ministry Act, according to which there were 17 ministries in the Republic of Serbia. Under the current 2007 Ministry Act, there are 22 ministries in the Republic of Serbia. So, if we were to look for new, valid 2007 data, they would certainly be far more alarming than the 2004 data. Now a fundamental question is raised – what is the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government doing, what are his State Secretarys, his assistants doing, and where has this reform of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia that you have been talking about for several years? To remind you, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica brought the State Administration Reform Strategy to Serbia at the end of 2004. When the text of the strategy was presented in Hayat, then one of those who spoke positively about the strategy was then the head of the OSCE in Serbia, Mauricio Masari. It's been three years since 2004. You can't see anything. There is absolutely no valid information that the state of government has improved. Not only has it not improved, it has worsened. The number of civil servants is increasing and increasing. The 2007 budget confirms that. The state administration is extremely inefficient. What is worst, the state administration in the Republic of Serbia today does not operate under the Constitution and the law, but works on party orders from DS, DSS and G 17 plus. When the Democratic Party responds to the law, they are called to the law. When that doesn't suit them, they say the law doesn't apply. You could see in the previous days, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the Serbian Radical Party insisted on a consistent implementation of Article 12. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under that member, the National Assembly president has the obligation to call elections for Belgrade mayor within 15 days of the end of the late Nenad Bogdanovic's term of office. We have received the interpretation of Minister Markovic that it is not clear whether the Law on Local Self-Government is in force or not, whether it applies in general or not, etc. The law on local self-government applies. This clearly stems from Article 12. The first to apply the law is precisely Mr. Milan Markovic, but Mr. Milan Markovic does not want it. It maintains an extra-constitutional and extra-legislative state in Belgrade. He will not admit in the National Assembly that the Law on Local Self-Government, for example, does not know at all some deputy official of Belgrade's duties, that he does not know that only the DS can propose the president of the Belgrade City Assembly without the SRS, etc. I'm using this announcement to introduce the MPs to what's going on in the Rum municipality. This morning, two police buses from Shid and Sremska Mitrovica arrived in the city house, i.e. in Ruma Municipality, and tried to introduce a completely illegally elected president of the Assembly and his deputy, two from the Democratic Party. In doing so, they wouldn't allow the president of the municipality to enter the city hall. So, everything was blocked, like there were terrorists in the city house. There was a lady from the Department of State and local self-government with the police. I tried to talk to her, as a MP. She said no. I don't know what that lady's name is, and the cop who was, apparently, is an elder from Belgrade, on my question -- what's your name, she says -- I'm nobody here. Gentlemen, that's another proof of what our government is like, because the police are part of the administration. I tried this lady from the Department of Local Self-Government to find out what the legal basis is to bring the police into the city house and not allow the president of the municipality to enter the city house. Of course, she didn't want to answer anything. Prior to that, she told the Secretary of the Assembly that police in the city house were based on some conclusion from the government. Yesterday we talked about a dangerous phenomenon, which is that the government is bringing some acts that are not going to be published anywhere. Serbian citizens with such acts will not be able to get to know each other. I ask Minister Milan Markovic, as well as Mr Jocic, as Minister of the Interior, which is the conclusion of the government allowing the police to break into the city house without a court order and not allow the president of the municipality and the council to enter the city house? What is the law that allows it? Is it any other legal act? At all, what is the legal basis for this police operation? I understand the desire to come to power. It's a legitimate pursuit of every political party. Gentlemen, there will be local elections soon. Go to the polls, so if the citizens of Ruma, Srema, Vojvodina, all of Serbia want you in power, you will be, but don't let the police take you into office. This is not a police state, although you obviously have a keen desire to turn Serbia into a police state. Don't drag those honest cops who looked at the country today out of shame, don't embarrass them. They're honest people. They have their families, and it's not easy for them when they have to carry out your political orders that have no legal basis. Don't embarrass those congratulatory people. Then come, you, let Minister Milan Markovic come, let him take the hand of his party comrades, and let him lead them into office. Don't hide behind those honest cops who work for a small salary and you pushed like a living shield. Don't do that. Win the election, it's a democratic path. Anything else can cause extremely dangerous incidents. I call on Milan Markovic, he is likely to come out of the Serbian Parliament, but I ask his party comrades to pass the issue on to him, to go out for the Serbian Parliament and to answer what is the legal basis for the police to break into the city house and that the official of his ministry does not want to show the legal act on the basis of which it is done. If Minister Milan Markovic disobeys this really well-intentioned request of mine, we will be forced to go out in the business and defend the rights of local self-government for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9014	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia (Serbs) You have received an amendment that was submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor to the bill of law. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 3. The government is proposing that the amendment not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9015	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said in principle that it is clear to us that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays is a alignment with the Constitution and with the fact that it is also an opportunity for us to meet national minorities on the celebration of the holiday. According to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, national councils of national minorities have the right to establish national holidays of national minorities, which are later confirmed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities. The government has proposed that the amendment be rejected, with an explanation that, according to the government, this solution is, in its content, a matter of system law governing the rights of members of national minorities. We believe, and I think it is the fact that there is a system law governing the issue of the rights of members of national minorities; it is precisely the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. On the other hand, the system law governing the holiday issue is exactly the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, we propose that this amendment be accepted. This amendment, by the way, contains an identical solution as already contained in the Law in relation to religious holidays. The essence of our proposal is that, as well as the religious holidays of national minorities, national holidays of national minorities are simply marked in a dignified way, i.e. those of national minorities do not work these days. Otherwise, let me say, the explanation that I have quoted is completely unargued, because if we follow that decision then religious holidays should be established in the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, or the Day of Work in the Labour Act, so I think that regulation of the ways of celebrating the holidays that have been established in accordance with this system law is the place in this law. In the end, only a brief replica of the minister at his last exposure. Namely, he said that the issue of the borders of the administrative districts was not established, or regulated by the Law on Territorial Organisation, but by the Government Regulation. That's perfectly clear to me. I asked a question, and this is the question, and I repeat this way, when, in order to protect legality, Article 39 will. The Law on State Administration, not the other law, but the Law on State Administration, the Ministry of State Administration, initiate an amendment to the government's regulation establishing the boundaries of the administrative districts and thus correcting the injustices under which the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta, otherwise the Botswana municipalities, are practically located in Banat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9016	The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you saw yesterday an unremembered incident in interstate relations between the former SFRY countries, where Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Chairman Zeljko Komsic warned the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia -- it doesn't matter who he is and which political parties he comes from, but the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is authorised under the Constitution to lead foreign policy -- to keep his fingers away from Bosnia and Herzegovina, will get on both fingers and nose. If anyone here thinks that Kostunica has been warned, I think he's deeply mistaken. The Republic of Serbia, the Serbian people were warned here and the citizens of Republika Srpska and the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina were warned that they would not accidentally consider defending the Dayton Agreement, that Serbia should without any raise a vote, not to say any other authority or means, some institution or, God forbid, the armed forces, watch the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija and the destruction of Republika Srpska. Mr. Minister, the government of the Republic of Serbia must react sharply to this statement. This is a threat to the Republic of Serbia coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the image of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How much more will you invest and apologize to those who today threaten Serbia and the Serbian people? That's why I'm asking the state authorities to react sharply to these statements. The strongest statement on this can't be a statement by the prime minister's adviser on media issues, Srdjan Djuric. So, please get serious, please do what is your constitutional obligation, which is to take care of state and national interests. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to protect the Republic of Serbia, because there are special ties and special relations with it. This is where we adopted it a few months ago. This is where we voted on it. Today Lajcak wants to annul the Dayton Agreement. Today, it is said that the US and other states will be ready to unilaterally accept and recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and we say that we are not thinking of challenging Bosnia and Herzegovina's unity, that is, the president of the Republic said yesterday, at the same time as Komsic says and warns the Prime Minister that he will get it by his nose. The Prime Minister can get it on his nose, but this country and this people must not remain unresponsive to such claims and such threats, even if they come from Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, from anyone in our environment. That's why I'm really asking you to instead of clearing up relations within the ruling coalition and guessing and conjecture about the election... We have such a situation that no one will respond to questions like this. So Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica in this case is not a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, so that the Democratic Party is looking forward to being hit over the nose by Komsic. In any case, he is the Prime Minister voted for by you from the ruling coalition. Defend the Government of the Republic of Serbia in relations with our political opponents and those, I can say, who are the enemies of the Serbian people, because this will defend Serbia and the Serbian people and you will defend the Republic of Serbia. Milorad Dodik can't play Ahtisaari here to tour state institutions to get someone to defend Republika Srpska. The obligation is yours and ours to defend the Republic of Serbia under the Dayton Agreement. That's how the war ended. If the Dayton Agreement changes, peace in BiH is threatened. That's what everybody needs to know. Also, if Kosovo and Metohija are kidnapped, peace and stability in the Balkans are threatened. That's what you should say, because the people of Serbia expect it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9018	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9019	I'm reporting on the same basis as the previous speaker. Given what it was about, I just can't help reacting. I agree with the exposition of the predecessors. Indeed, Mr. Komsic's reaction cannot even be interpreted as diplomatic, and it would be euphemism. So this is about an aggressive attack on the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia, in a way that is unprecedented in this recent history. I don't think in that sense the state of Serbia can run out of reaction. This may be one of the kinds of that reaction, but I do not think it is excluded that individual state bodies in Serbia, like this parliament, should have a certain reaction. This reaction may not be enough to be from a pay phone alone, but it may be necessary for this congregation to come out with a particular document at some point. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we had a proposal for a declaration about Cuba; so when we had a proposal for a declaration about Cuba, it was just amazing that we couldn't have a proposal for a declaration about this situation in BiH, which is related to the position of Republika Srpska. For the sake of honesty, I'll say that yesterday I had a chance to see such a proposal, prepared by colleagues from the SRS. On behalf of the DSS - NS parliamentary group, I can say that this can be a good starting point to create a common text on this subject and that may be the answer to this Parliament. Simply, the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, that is what Mr Komsic must know, stems from the Dayton Agreement. The state of Serbia is guaranteed to implement the Dayton Agreement and has every right to interfere when we consider and when the state of Serbia considers that the provisions of the Dayton Agreement have been violated and that the constitutional framework in BiH has been violated. What Mr. Lajcak is doing now is definitely insulting the constitutional framework in BiH, it is an attempt to undo the existence of Republika Srpska. We know very well how it all went, how the war ended and who the guarantees were ending that process. So at this point, this has a basis, and everything we've heard makes a deep sense, and this country is bound to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9020	I thank Mr. Aligrudic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. I apologize to Mr. Nikolic, replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to use my professional right to explain in two sentences what I was talking about since Mr. Aligrudic referred to my statement in the Rules of Procedure. I propose and call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the adoption of one act, document, resolution or declaration, anyway, on Republika Srpska. You are absolutely right that our congregation should make a statement. Our assembly should bring a declaration in which it should make it clear that if Albanian lobbyists of independence unilaterally wish to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, outside the Security Council's decision, outside the international legal order, then the international legal order does not apply to the Republika Srpska and Serbia either should recognise the independence of the Republika Srpska. In any case, any violation and endangerment of the Dayton Agreement this National Assembly must react. This is in line with the Special Relations Agreement. The peak of our reactions cannot be a statement that Serbia is in favour of BiH's integrity and unity. They abolish Republika Srpska, and Serbia advocates BiH's unity and integrity! That was said yesterday by the president of Serbia. Komsic says Serbia will win over the prime minister's nose. You know what, and when he was Milosevic, they didn't attack Milosevic because he was Milosevic, but they attacked him because he was protecting Serbian national and state interests. It doesn't matter who's in charge of this country and this government at all. And that someone has threatened you always this assembly should stand up for its President and Prime Minister. But if you don't understand what I'm talking about and if you think it's all about personal issues, I apologize, I didn't want to impose on anyone whether they would defend or attack Kostunica or anyone else. This is about Serbia, the Serbian people, the citizens of Serbia and, above all, those who live in Republika Srpska and who are watching this parliament and cannot believe that today in this House no one will say this, that we are coming into an absurd situation that opposition representatives should talk about it. No matter, we are a state-of-the-art political party and above all party interests is the interest of this country and this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9022	The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9023	As a representative of the government in this House today, I feel invited to take part in this debate. I fully understand the concerns of Mr Dacic and all other MPs. A good estimate should be given to whether such a statement deserves to be dealt with by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The character and quality of Mr Komsic's statement is such that it hardly deserves to be found on the pages of the yellow press. Unfortunately, there is something else that is very serious, which is an idea he's carrying out, which he has or is represented by Mr. Lajcak. That is what has come across a very direct reaction from the President of the Republic and I think that, if we want to talk about Serbia, we should not now in some way perform some segments from the appearance of the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister and use it for some internal political scene. So, the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia made the following very clear in the statements, which is that Serbia is a guarantor of the Dayton Agreement, that Serbia will not and will not agree to violation of the rights of Republika Srpska, which have been established by the Dayton Agreement, i.e. the Serbian people. At the same time, they pulled the parallel and said that in addition to this international document, we are also protecting the other document, which is Security Council Resolution 1244. I think the statements made by the President of the Republic and by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia were one real, balanced and complementary answer to what was the idea carried out or represented by Mr Lajcak. Of course, if the National Assembly, Government or President of the Republic, the state authorities assess that a different reaction should be taken into account, then all elements in this case will be taken into account and another reaction taken. In any case, I would ask that we bear in mind that the President of the Republic has made it very clear and directly said that Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and that as such it cannot be allowed to question the rights of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. I would like to pray, if we want to talk about it, that we are still talking in a comprehensive way, so that the public doesn't get the wrong impression, because someone might not have listened to a statement from the President of the Republic yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9024	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. I apologize again to Mr. Nikolic, according to Ivica Dacic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9025	I just want it to not be explained what I was just talking about. I think the topic we're talking about is very serious and it's not a matter of mutual bickering whether something was said by the President of the Republic or by the Prime Minister or by any other president of any political party, etc. It is about Serbia's obligation under the Dayton Agreement and, of course, from what was brought in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Agreement on special relations and relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska. In this sense, Serbia should take advantage of all political opportunities to clearly tell everyone what it will do if there is a breach of the Dayton Agreement, and there is a breach. That's why I think the uninformed statements of any state body that speak of Serbia not sending troops to Kosovo, that Serbia will not support the independence of Republika Srpska, that Serbia simply declares in such a way that our enemies can do whatever it wants against us, and we will suffer with dignity and we will do nothing. I think those statements are wrong. That is why it would not be far from the political right to try through the National Assembly of Serbia's document to condemn it. I'm not saying there should be any additional and special debates, but there is such practice in many parliaments. In addition, in Serbia itself, on the bombing of Serbia, on everything, joint statements, declarations were adopted through various congregations. I think that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should once again point out that Serbia will do everything for the defence of Republika Srpska, not just on the words and not just on that sentence when it is said -- but we will defend both the single Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know what, we'll defend the Serb people in Republika Srpska. I cannot, of all international documents -- the Dayton Agreement, Resolution 1244 -- be more important to the AVNOJ border of the former Yugoslavia. A communist system has been torn down everywhere in Europe, only inter-republic borders in Serbia, in the former Yugoslavia, remain as the highest expression of justice. It must absolutely stand in the defense of our people living in this moment outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Besides, it's not just our policy, it's your policy that you've been running, it's the policy of those parties you've supported and you've been working with all these years from 1990 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9026	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9027	I assume this requires a statement from every member of Parliament. In our position, you don't have to doubt it, we've always carried it out, we're taking it out now. For us, Bijeljina and Banja Luka are Serbia, and one day, the Serbian people, or all the citizens of Republika Srpska, will have the opportunity to decide on this by a referendum. I think when someone makes a statement about the Prime Minister or about a member of the government, they should react to the government. I don't think this is for the People's Assembly's response. We're not the government's auxiliary body. We're not particularly the government's protective body. But I am prepared to participate in the creation of a document that would be called - a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and the exercise of the rights of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of this Dayton Agreement, so that we should warn the whole world of what obligations the then-Yugoslavia has made regarding the protection of the Dayton Agreement and what we are prepared to do if there is a rough breach, and it is obvious and evident. So Republika Srpska is at risk. There are people in power in Republika Srpska who are directly supported by the current Serbian government. Make a deal with these people, make a deal with Milorad Dodik what needs to be done to keep Republika Srpska alive. What if someone replaces Milorad Dodik these days and forbids him, as radicals are temporarily banned because of such statements, to practice politics more? In the 21st century, can anyone in one country forbid a man from politics because of ideas he stands for? Now that the Council of Europe has abolished slander as a criminal offense, can someone be banned from being elected by the people because of their speech? Let's seriously defend the interests of both Serbia and Republika Srpska and Serbia's special interests in Kosovo and Metohija. But as we defend Kosovo and Metohija, so will the Republic of Serbia and you know it very well. If you continue to negotiate this way without preparing for a self-declaration of independence, so will Republika Srpska. Don't act like you don't run out of days, 'cause days go by really fast. The cynicism of foreign high officials is growing. Solana ended up saying what he probably already told your representatives, so give up on the 100% demands both of them. I now ask you, who is this addressed to, both Albanians and Serbs or only Serbs? Why would the Albanians give up the 100% requirement when America says so today? Why would they give up the requirement to be independent, when America says so today, that's what Germany says today, and also the European Union? So, this is a message to our negotiators in Vienna -- giving up the maximum demands, giving up the requirement for Kosovo and Metohija to remain in the Serbia system. So, I'm ready for a session of the National Assembly where you're going to re-report what's going on in the negotiations. Why do you keep us in the bliss of ignorance? What's going on in the negotiations? Do you have the right to keep us in blissful ignorance based on the resolution we adopted here unanimously or are you obliged to report to us what is happening in the negotiations? If you want to co-operate with the Serbian Radical Party, we must be fully in progress. If someone said Vojislav Kostunica would slap on the nose and on his fingers, let's see the first reaction of Vojislav Kostunica, not wait five or six months; let them say right away – you know what, he, not as a person, but as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, put it at risk and ask the government to make a statement. Then we will, of course, and as the National Assembly to plead. Come on, if you want to defend the state, segment by segment, piece by piece to get everyone uniquely into that defense, not that you're defending it to get some points, so you can even call the election and end the election before there's a negative or positive point. So we're ready to take part in the debate here and we're ready to bring resolutions, but I'm really not ready to take part in the vote of something called - you shouldn't have threatened Vojislav Kostunica and the National Assembly is terrified about it. I don't care, I want to see him defend himself, so I know how he will defend Serbia when it's difficult for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9028	The Republic has a National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9029	This is a replica to the previous exhibition. So I think we didn't get along very well, because I wasn't talking about the need for the Assembly to react to the Komsic statement, but what Lajcak did. That's two completely different things. In Komsic's statement, we can react as politicians in a different way. As far as Lajcak is concerned, it's the subject of a resolution. So, I said that yesterday I had a chance to see an initial document by the Serbian Radical Party that could serve as a good basis for the National Assembly's response to what is happening in BiH under the international patronage. We must bear in mind that BiH is not an ordinary state. It is a kind of puppet creation of the international community, which we had to agree to at this point because it was resolved by an agreement that stopped the war. It's a legal framework for us right now. This legal framework must be respected because we are guarantees of respect for this legal framework. In that sense, I can also understand certain statements made by certain state officials. So, I wouldn't be spreading the subject, really, but it's simply impossible for the Serbian state authorities not to respond to such challenges. It's gotta be done. I really cannot accept the the thesis that if someone who is an official of a state, even such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the image of Mr Komsic, calls on a state body of Serbia, that this concerns only the state body's reaction. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable from a political point of view. In my opinion, the state of Serbia must have a certain reaction, and usually the reaction is appropriate to what caused the reaction. So the question needs to be asked who said it, in what capacity, in which way he addressed it, whether it's a diplomatic dictionary or something that's quite different, something that's scandalous in diplomatic and political terms. I think this is a different matter. In the end, such a scandalous statement goes to a reaction that is such a statement, not just at the level from which it was given, appropriate. Therefore, you will be able to hear very clearly the statement of a media adviser to the Prime Minister about this. She clearly, unequivocally, decidently says that it is a bold, reckless behaviour that can be characterized in any way, just not as diplomatic, and that it is not directed at any moment against Vojislav Kostunica personally. Do not have any illusions of what Komsic said personally against Vojislav Kostunica, for, my God, he does not like anything Vojislav Kostunica. That's just not true. Who interprets that such an attack is directed at a person in this country is obviously unable to feel how the state interest of the Republic of Serbia can and should be defended. Such statements are directly directed against the Republic of Serbia. Because those people in office in this country represent both the state and the state interest of the Republic of Serbia, not themselves in those functions. No matter who he voted for in this election, who he voted for in this House when it comes to ministers or the Prime Minister, this is, therefore, something of common interest. When it calls for protection of common interest, Mr. Nikolic, then it must be fully consistent. When you talk about some announcements here that you may be able to call the presidential elections at a time when a truly important phase of talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija, which will result in a report of the "three" to the Security Council on December 10th, can easily result in a declaration of self-proclaiming independence of Kosovo and Metohija, which may be, again, in line with the announcements, followed by the unilateral recognition of individual states, in this case it can easily happen by the United States... It is about creating an extremely dangerous situation and a major challenge for the state of Serbia, so it is not enough to just say - ha, there are announcements whether it will be, whether it will be. This is a topic for our conversation together. When it comes to deadlines for calling elections under the Constitutional Law, it falls on the burden of all of us. The Serbian Radical Party may not have voted for this government, may not be in power, may not be interested in the fate of the government at all or is interested in the worst sense -- that it falls, but, in any case, the SRS has an interest and participates in the constitutional process. Therefore, to that extent and to the extent that the provisions of the Constitutional Law and their direct application are important for resolving this issue, there is also the responsibility of 81 Serbian Radical Party MPs for this story. So it is absolutely not true and it cannot be true that this matter comes down to the political decision of a political party or to the question of imposing this political decision. This is what we have to have, ladies and gentlemen, a common political stance, because if we don't have it, it's a huge shame for the state of Serbia. In that sense, we need to understand each other, not to express the political views that we need here, thanks to our skilled rhetoric, to sound like, my God, we are all ready to defend the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, but when a key moment comes and when a challenge arises before us, such as a possible election call, then what? It's probably proposed that we all rush to that election. Answer that question, Mr. Nikolic, so we can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9030	I thank the MP Milos Aligrudic. Replica was requested by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9031	Unlike you, I always have an answer. So there is no question whether the SRS may be in the government, whether it is not in the government – so we are not in the government. The implementation of the Constitutional Law is only on you, on this minister and on you. You are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you do not enforce the Constitutional Law. One part of the government is calling the elections, and the other part of the government is asking the SRS for help not to hold the elections. Slowly, let's see, people, if you're a single government, are you uniquely acting on the most important state issues, where you agree and where you disagree? You disagree on the way Kosovo and Metohija defend themselves. You don't agree on how to defend Republika Srpska. You disagree on the most important things - whether there will be a choice or not, whether we finish all constitutional laws in due time or not. What do you agree on? About the division of directors in public enterprises, about the distribution of ministerial posts. And what else do you agree on? So don't talk to me like the SRS is part of the government and part of the responsibility. Whenever the SRS needed to show its responsibility to the state, you had the support of the SRS. If I had known that by bringing the Constitution to cheer the citizens of Serbia and letting you boycott it, I would never have brought an SRS parliamentary group into the constitution. To be perfectly honest, with a full heart, maybe we had a breaking effect on that day, on Sunday, when the voters were breaking out at the polls. We don't regret it. But how many long months after that you didn't do anything by that constitution, but nothing at all. Why? Because your interests are conflicting. You cannot pretend to be one government, and as soon as your interests conflict with it, you can transfer it to the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens participated in the adoption of the Constitution. You now deceive all citizens of Serbia. For you, it's pointless, no character, no identity, those who have to circle something when you call them. When they leave it to you, it falls into the water. The people of the Constitution asked you to arrange for them a state. What's an orderly state? First the Constitutional Court, gentlemen. A new democratic authority; last night I heard a new expression, Carla del Ponte and others suggest that "a new democratic government" be given a chance. What new democratic power? For seven years, we've been hearing about new democratic governments that are changing behind each other. So, what? To choose the Constitutional Court for them, to pass the laws under which the Constitutional Court will act. Where's your Constitutional Court? Who controls your decisions, your behavior? To pass laws that regulate the most important -- local self-government. The minister doesn't care about local self-government. He doesn't think about it at all. Whenever you ask him a question, he'll say, "We'll pass a new law on local self-government, and now we don't have to do anything about it at all." The President of the Republic raised the Constitution. Someone's got to regulate his behavior, his behavior, his obligations, his duties, his duties. Who? The law, not the president himself. You don't mind the President of the Republic setting up generals, replacing generals, talking about defense, talking about foreign affairs, talking about the military, about security. By what law? According to the Constitution, the Constitution gave him these instructions. He can't do it without the law. Now you've come into conflict. The deal was that Vojislav Kostunica be Prime Minister and support Boris Tadic to be president of the Republic. Support Boris Tadic. It's a fulfillment of the deal. Fill out at least one deal in your life. Here, the radicals are easy to cheat, the agreements with us because of Boris Tadic you have stepped down. Because of Boris Tadic, you have stepped down an agreement with the Serbian Radical Party, because of his desire to command Serbia here, as president of the assembly, because of his desire to have the president call the elections when Boris Tadic says. You accepted it, you accepted that distribution, now support Boris Tadic. There's nothing, clean. You are the same government, the same ideology, you are implementing the same government programme, why don't you support Democratic Party President Boris Tadic? It doesn't matter to us, our candidate will get more votes if you support him and if you don't support him. It's just, those two chairs that you're sitting on, they're moving. Now you have to see what's left in the middle, what's the defense zone, and how defenseless it is. That's pretty much how things happen. I don't know if we're going to the election, I don't know if Boris Tadic will call them, and neither do you. So don't call me. The Serbian Radical Party only behaves after the consequences. Let us decide when the election will be, and then charge us with why there's no choice, why there isn't. Since you left it to yourself, part of the government to decide, then wait for our reaction and then call me. I think you'll have a hard time calling me if we're boycotting the election, and I think you'll find it hard to call me and if we go to that election. If I'm going to call you, leave it to some pre-election campaign to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9032	I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milos Aligrudic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9033	This was a great rhetorical way to avoid answering the question that was asked. I really can't blame anything you've said when it comes to the criticisms you've given to the ruling coalition. Any opposition party would do so. Whether we're slow, whether we didn't do what we promised, how late it was, those are things that can or can't be defended. I asked a whole other question, don't let it get out of hand. On December 10th, this phase of the negotiation process will end; it may happen to be concluded by individual actors to be the last one, which, of course, Serbia cannot respond to. A report will be submitted to the Security Council. One side, the Albanian side in Kosovo and Metohija will likely unilaterally declare our southern province's independence. One country in this world, this is the United States, has already announced that it is most likely that it will unilaterally recognise this independence. It is therefore more than obvious that after that date certain circumstances will be created which represent more than a challenge for this country. In this regard, the DSS - NS expressed its political position publicly, unrelated to whether or not it participates in the government. You know very well that we have not highlighted our candidate for any moment, the Democratic Party of Serbia has not pointed out its candidate for the presidential elections, nor, as things stand now, we have planned to do, for two reasons: firstly, because the presidential elections are not called, with which I agree anyway; secondly, to be consistent in our political position when it comes to not having to call them now. It's a decadent and clear political stance. He's clearly politically explained here. What I was about to say is not, Mr. Nikolic, that you have an obligation to participate in the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the implementation of the Constitutional Law, it is certainly not your obligation, none of you expect it. It's our responsibility, and if we do it badly, all the criticism goes on our backs, I'm sure it's not on yours. Your obligation arises at the moment when a particular challenge is created for this country, which is now more than easy to predict, so when it happens, and we all conclude it together, which I call on you to discuss together, rather than just the ruling coalition parties, it is unacceptable for me to discuss such an important issue in the ruling coalition's atara. If someone is sitting in this parliament, if there are five MPs, if there is a group of five MPs, she is obliged to pay attention to this issue, and when a challenge happens for this country, and before it happens, if we can predict it, is it not the main issue to discuss whether we should or should not have an election campaign at that time? Should all Serbian citizens be raised to our feet to be politically by one or another internal political message at a time when we have one of these challenges? No one is foolish to think that the Kosovo and Metohija issue will be resolved on December 10th. Of course he won't, he won't get rid of it for years, maybe decades, but that's not the time when we can and should be dealing with an internal political scene. As for the President of the Republic, so does the mayor of Belgrade. What is the difference between a quarter of the electoral body and the entire electoral body when it comes to this argument? I don't see any difference between that. Then don't accuse others of political calculatorism and mention boards, public enterprises. Calculating those who are calculating with public political functions, those who talk about perhaps participating in the elections, may not, depending on the assessment of who will win, e Tomislav Nikolic certainly wins. Well done, I don't mind, but that's not what I want to talk about right now. I'd like to ask you another question, which you haven't answered in spite of all your rhetorical skills in your presentation. Will you, decadeously answer that question, agree to talk to all of us about any changes to the constitutional law provisions and allow the vote to be called a little later or much later than the term envisaged here, so that we can relax the political scene in Serbia and allow Serbia to act properly with the challenges that lie ahead in December of the month? I know that you will tell me that there seems to be a disagreement between the coalition partners in Serbia on the issue. Maybe, maybe not, but that's not my question, my question is to you personally. Don't you measure what's going to happen in the ruling camp. That question can be resolved in different ways. The disagreement between us, as we all know, can be resolved in a drastic way, but that's not the question I asked you, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9034	I thank the MP Milos Aligrudic. The replica was sought by Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9035	Mr Aligrudic, 15 days ago I suggested that we propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You never answered me. I even told you that we're ready to be proposing. You never answered me. That's the past. Let's move on. Yeah, well, the past is, there's been a time, now the deadline for the election has come up, come out with a new idea. So that idea when she was mine wasn't acceptable. When you didn't make a deal with the government, you're looking for that idea now, but file that bill. We're talking in the fog. Let's move on. The situation with Kosovo and Metohija is extremely difficult. Do you see that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? You can't see it. Are we discussing this? We're not discussing it. Are we ready for that December 10th or 12th, as you said? We didn't. What will be 10 December if Kosovo and Metohija self-proclaim independence? Do we have a resolution here that we then order state authorities to do what? We don't. So we're not ready for Kosovo and Metohija. Let's move on. It's immoral to call elections, absolutely immoral. It's the easiest thing for us radicals to run that pre-election race. You have not included us in any obligation to defend Kosovo and Metohija. You've taken it upon yourself. You shouldn't have. Did anyone tell you-- Socialists, radicals, that's not supposed to be on your negotiating team? Say, it doesn't matter. That's how you relaxed us to run the pre-election circle. What will you tell your coalition partner, when all the ministers and presidents of the Republic will run a pre-election campaign. And, finally, let me answer you. Break the coalition, Mr. Aligrudic. Don't ask the opposition what she's going to do. Clean it up with yourself first. Did we agree that it was immoral to call an election? What about the one who's immoral in the government? You're not gonna sit next to him in a chair, are you? That's the answer to your question. You want to have the government, and the Serbian Radical Party holds the government's positions. So, the government is good for us, one part of the government wants elections, help the SRS not to have a choice, help the SRS be the choice. Why do you leave that choice to us? If Boris Tadic calls the elections, break up the coalition, sit down, talk, discuss, maybe there won't be a choice in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9036	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9037	From your answers you clearly see a simple political calculation or political calculatorism, it's "the strategy of cricket". So what you're saying I can't accept. You just want to say, and you keep saying it, how you have a comfortable position as an opposition MP group, as if you're discovering hot water, and that's obvious, clearly. In every political system, in every country, that thing is clearly set up. Don't say that. I didn't ask you that. You have continued to have a skillful rhetorical ability, on which I congratulate you, to avoid the answer to the question I have asked you. I'm asking you if there's this readiness, and you're telling me that you offered something 15 or 20 days ago, which no one remembers anymore. So then you said, turkey dots don't work, deadline's up, deadline's up. Like yogurt, like sour milk in a supermarket, look at the date and say, "We're out of time, let's throw it away." What difference does it make? What are you guys talking about? I'm asking you a very clear and concrete question that you haven't answered. Why didn't you answer me? Because the race for the presidential election is more important to you than what I asked you. You care more about the mayor's race than what I asked you. You have more important choices, how you'll go through them, than what I've been talking about. That's what the point is. How the problem will be solved within the ruling coalition, do we have a programme with the government's existence in case the issue doesn't settle in a satisfactory way, it's a flow that goes by itself. I gave you my political stance, or position of the DSS - NS, on the calling of elections and on the importance of the act, if this happens and if the campaign runs at the time of the solutions to those problems and those challenges that are being put before Serbia. If that's not a clear political stance, then I don't know what a clear political attitude is. And that story -- let's wait and see if it puts the government at risk, so when you break up the coalition, then call us... What does that look like? I didn't tell you about that at all. I've asked you a specific and decadent question, which you don't have an answer to today, Mr. Nikolic, and I'd like you to have it, and I'd like you to answer that question that I asked you instead of going raining around Kragujevec.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9038	I thank the MP Milos Aligrudic. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic appeared for the replica, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9039	I'm not ashamed that you're claiming that my choices are more important than some situation. I'm not ashamed of you saying that. You should be ashamed of me saying that participation in the government is more important to you than any other situation. So we're in different positions. As for ease in opposition, I think it was a clear enough sign that we didn't want to be in opposition when we agreed to vote to be president of the National Assembly. It was a move that was said that the SRS would take over that part of the responsibility that we agree on. So it's not true and don't talk like those G17s and these yellows, how the SRS can't wait to be in opposition so it doesn't have a responsibility. That's not true. We want responsibility, you've had that sign on our side, you've accepted it for three days, on the fourth day you've been with those who've been baiting you, what they've been putting on their heads, and you've been taking off their pants, you've gone into the coalition with them. Now it's going to get back to you. It took too long. Idila in the coalition lasts while the state is stable. Then anyone with anyone can be in the coalition. When it comes to ideology, that's when masks fall, masks are revealed, then you know who's who in that coalition. It would be easy for you to rule if all these problems were solved. Then the entire assembly can be in the coalition. The problem now is Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. You have completely different attitudes about it, absolutely different. You constitutional defenders and you who act in full accordance with the constitutional law, don't you mind this unconstitutional situation in the country? Do you, Mr. Aligurudic, who is chairman of the Council of Europe, not mind that the citizens of Serbia have no one to appeal to for a year and a half when their human or minority rights are denied? You're telling me, "What are you guys talking about? "I'm only talking about what lives in Serbia. Don't ask me what the SRS is gonna do. Nothing in Serbia depends on us. I have the right to ask you - will you call the elections, I have the right to ask you - will you participate in these elections, I have the right to ask you - if it is immoral to discuss the elections, will you stay in that government? What kind of charges are you making on my account? That I'm irresponsible? Where did you bring me to some meeting where I acted irresponsiblely? Was that about Kosovo and Metohija? Have I ever been irresponsible? Was it about the Constitution? Have I ever been irresponsible? I'm irresponsible when you have meetings with the heads of the parliamentary groups, so tandara-mandara, that makes me very happy. When it comes to the state, I'm never irresponsible, nor will any radical be irresponsible, but don't ask me to lead you. I can't, you're not mine. If you were mine, I'd lead you, my dear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9040	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9041	I think this is what we are talking about right now is the most important issue Serbia is facing today. For this reason, I want to exercise my business law and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia once again – will it give full information about what is currently going on on Serbia's political scene? Is it December 10th the day when a final report of the negotiating troika is expected? Is that so or isn't it? Is it expected to come after that so-called. Kosovo's assembly -- which has been called elections, and we have called on Serbs not to participate in these elections and yet some Serbs will be found to participate in giving the assembly legitimacy -- to declare independence? Will the Kosovo Assembly declare Kosovo's independence (that's what they're called)? Will or won't? Will the United States recognise Kosovo and Metohija unilaterally without a UN Security Council decision? Will any other states besides the United States follow that policy and decision of the US administration? Will there be a re-exodus of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija for that? Will Serbia have presidential elections on December 9th and Kosovo and Metohija's independence will be declared on December 10th or 11th, between the two rounds of the presidential elections? I ask the ruling coalition to clearly and precisely say now whether the election call by the president of the National Assembly, without agreement with the DSS, means the fall of the Serbian government? Or will you continue to sit in the same government, and secretly call each other an election? Will Serbia welcome on December 10th without a president, who has to resign in order to be called for elections, without a government that will fall because elections have been called without agreement in the ruling coalition and will parliament be disbanded because there is no parliamentary majority? Answer me whether or not this is the case and whether it is an answer to the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, to those who chose us all here. They didn't choose us to deploy to certain chairs, they chose us to defend national and state interests. That's why I think it's really time for us to talk openly. Whether you in the ruling coalition have unity or not, we are not interested in the opposition, but your disunity endangers national and state interests. At this point, you are an obstacle to the protection of national and national interests. That's why you have to be responsible for this people and this country, not for asking opposition parties... We're ready to discuss it. Put the Kosovo and Metohija issue on the agenda tomorrow. Ask the Republika Srpska question. If you can't agree when there will be elections, how will you agree when and how will you protect national and state interests? Just one more thing to tell you: if you call the election by November 5th for December 9, that's 30 days and a few days, will you be ashamed? Because if Milosevic had called the elections in 30 days, ten commissions of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation would have come, the UN, all would have declared the elections in advance illegal. Call the election, now in a week, we've got our appointments. Maybe RTS has an appointment to report the election. Maybe he didn't rent those terms. (President: Thank you, Mr. Dacic.) Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Here I read, at B92 Professor Radivoje Stepanov says - Serbia can remain without Vojvodina. And we're being chased here and you're persecuting yourself on these issues. I really call upon you, I call upon the ruling coalition to, on behalf of national and state interests... Point number one around which they have gathered, reportedly, is Kosovo and Metohija. I absolutely agree that the matter of elections and Kosovo should be a matter of agreement between all parties. Call us for a conversation, invite us to say what we think about it. At the same time, they cannot resolve Kosovo's status and hold elections. At the same time, he can't do that. If you want the election, the minister's gone, why didn't you call the local election, why didn't you call the mayor's election? No, they're, like, less important. What are they? (President: I thank you, Mr. Dacic.) At least they're jeopardizing the state? No, it's important that the president's election is discussed as soon as possible. We are not afraid of any choice, it is not a problem, but don't put Serbia in a position to know in advance that Serbia will run out of institutions during that period. I warn Serbian citizens to understand that this is not an accident. This is only done because Serbia would be weakened during that period, that there is no one in Serbia to say no when it is important to say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9042	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, appeared in the word, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9043	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in many things we differ, and that is simply the nature of things. As for some things, we can't even bring our attitudes closer. What I don't doubt, indeed, is that we all share our concerns for the extremely difficult position of the country in which we are now. So I believe that all of our political thinking, the measurement of decisions comes from the fact that we are in the situation and all of our efforts to find a solution are actually efforts to find the best solution at this point. I really don't doubt that. The differences show, concerning some of these issues, and I don't think it can argue that these differences in Kosovo and Metohija do not exist essentially. There is therefore a unity of political consideration, but also of political strategies on the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Also, there is an undivided sense of concern about what can be the final outcome of it, regardless of all our joint efforts. What I'm saying is that the issue of the coalition is not about the disappearance of differences. So coalitions aren't made only if there's no difference. Coalitions are also made when differences exist, and when different topics are viewed differently by the best outcomes. When it comes to elections, I believe that all our arguments are actually an effort to choose the best solution. Maybe we take different factors as key, maybe we take different scenarios as most likely, maybe we take arguments that look to us or others as the most important arguments. What I really believe is that we are looking for the best solution precisely in view of the fact that Serbia is in a terribly difficult position, related to Kosovo and Metohija, for the position of Republika Srpska, for our European future as well. I want to point out this in particular, because I believe that for Serbia it is one of the most important, strategic objectives. So, we have cross and extremely complicated circumstances here, but normal political life can't stop because of that. So Serbia has to show the capacity to run life in Serbia; it is expected to pay, to go pensions, to have health care and health care work, to do education, it is simply expected, whatever difficult decision we have ahead of us is, whatever complicated process we are now taking part in. Life is simply expected to flow normally. People expect it from all of us together. This is an important topic, and I think that today may be the best debate we've had, in my deep sense, because it's being guided by the essence, it's being guided by arguments from each of us who, I say, in different ways, sheds light on this problem. I'm sure each of us is looking for the best solution. However, I appeal, if we can do the job, precisely because we have before us the Constitutional Court Act. We find it extremely important that we do the same. We care about doing the job. We care, as you do, that we have a Constitutional Court, that the country, whatever crisis in the next phase, has a Constitutional Court, that there are institutions that will depend on stability in one time that can be very unstable. Please, we are open if we are to sit down and discuss these issues as MP clubs and look for the best solutions that are related to issues, among other things, and choices. We're ready for that. So we have no reluctance to anyone to talk about it in the most responsible way possible. Please, if we can still do the job. If necessary, after this work we can sit down deep into the night and discuss these topics and look for the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9044	I thank Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Nikolic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9045	I would like to affirm one question, in fact, what makes Serbia significantly different from countries that have clearly highlighted ambitions to join the EU. We have opened this issue from the very beginning, i.e. trying to announce to the public that Serbia is specific in this regard. No country entering the EU, as we approach it, has been burdened by the problems we face here. We're facing real problems that part of our territory wants to declare independence and we're facing the possibility that one of the great forces will recognize that independence. We're finally facing this problem, the complexity of this problem. We have often sent very simple answers to complex questions to our citizens, for political points. We have to deal with this problem eventually, and it seems to me that this is the moment when we're all going to face this problem. Of course, every party in this House has the right to look from its party vision, but to a certain extent. The weight of this problem binds us all, the parties that are in power and those that are not, to try to come up with a common solution to what is best for the country in the coming period. Is that calling the presidential election? I don't think that's it. In fact, I want to make my point, I think whoever's ready to call the election before December 9th stabs the state of Serbia in the back. I think anyone who cares about Kosovo and Metohija remains in Serbia's membership, and who is ready to reach the limits for that principle and the right to fight, that's what he thinks. That's what's important here and I think it should be pointed out. In this previous period, we have had more challenges but we have shown that we can achieve unity right around Kosovo and Metohija. On several occasions we have passed resolutions that this assembly has almost unanimously declared; that there is not one unfortunate party that is ready to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but thank God for the margins of political life in this country, we have almost unanimously committed ourselves to these resolutions. We have clearly said in them that we will not admit and that we do not recognise any act of secessionism by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. We overcame that obstacle together. I won't open the question of who paid the biggest political or party price. So it doesn't matter to us. Let's just say we paid for it from the DSS, but at that point, at this point and in the future, it doesn't matter. It is important that we reach a consensus on the most important state and national issues. We had another big challenge last year. The constitution was a big question and it asked for a joint action and we managed to agree on that constitution. If it hadn't been for the engagement of all parties, the Constitution wouldn't have been adopted. Today we'd be in much bigger trouble if this constitution wasn't there, but, fortunately, we've got it. Now we need to take this final step, at the greatest moment. The question here is whether there is a real possibility that Kosovo Albanians will declare independence after December 10th. It's open to say - of course it exists. For that, we need to agree on what is the best time for the presidential elections to be held. It is not the right time for the presidential elections to take place before 9 December. Once again, I will repeat my personal position, and I believe that the DSS counterparts share that position, who will call the elections before December 9th, will stab the state of Serbia in the back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9046	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9047	I have to say that what I've heard in the last two hours has really asked me to come out for this pay phone, because this peaceful Friday, in the past two hours, we've turned, in my opinion, into the most significant part of the work of the National Assembly in this session. Most importantly, for the simple reason that the most significant state issues are on the agenda, and it is not an opportunity for us to personally step forward and express our views, but we should remember what we talked about on these state issues several months ago. Mr. Ivica Dacic, not by chance, mentioned three possibilities hanging in the air: that we had an election scheduled with the president in resignation, that we had no government and that we had a disbanded National Assembly. So that the opposition representatives, because there is a part of the problem, can say to Serbia what they think, will then do their part of the work of media, which are reportedly impartial, but are directed and represent the views of certain stakeholders, unfortunately, sometimes against the interest of the Serbian state. I think that Mr Nikolic is right when he says that we, the representatives of the opposition, should not be burdened with things related to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I have to remind you, for those of you who forget, that last November was about going to elections at the cost of life, because if we don't go to elections, we're not going to enter Europe. People, remember, today is the end of October 2007 and our position in Europe hasn't changed for Yota either. On the contrary, they are now even more eyeslessly demanding that we give up Kosovo and Metohija because of this Europe. Last year, the Assembly was disbanded and the elections were going to be reportedly entering Europe, and I'm not putting our European future into second place at all, but let's see what it carries with it. If this European future carries the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, then it should be said from here publicly, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are also determined according to those options that the European future without Kosovo and Metohija wants. Don't say "we're not for it, we're not for it" and so on, when it's essentially done, some of us MPs in the National Assembly are essentially doing it. It should not be forgotten that we have a political option that advocates independent Kosovo and Metohija, right here in the National Assembly. They are supported, as Mr Nikolic says, will turn out and more. So, mind in the head. If last November we all agreed to put the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in the Constitution, to be our idea of leadership, and thus to provide the majority needed for the adoption of the Constitution, I guess nothing changed a day or day, eleven months after that. No election can be more important than a state issue such as Kosovo and Metohija. If you're making a script like last year, you should say it in time. If that's today, today. Remember, last year we had a situation that we had a government in resignation, technically, as they were called, so Ahtisaari's plan had no one to accept, to experience, to maltene, as a sheet of paper, and to determine the fate of the state and the part of the territory. Is there really people in this country who can put their own personal interest and party interest so facelessly first in relation to state issues? If there is, no problem, tell us that we know what's waiting for us. Do not bear in mind that the position of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their way of life differ dramatically. Some do not know, nor did they know what happened in the 1990s, nor do they know today, but most of Serbia is experiencing all this which is part of Serbia's fate: sanctions, isolation, bombing and today's low standard of living, low pensions and wages, high unemployment and lack of opportunity to buy bread. That's something to take care of. We socialists, as well as radicals, are likely to find the answer in this situation, whatever we do will not be wrong, but we call on the ruling coalition parties, those who make up the government, to come out together (if they can not, let them publish it) and to tell them what they are thinking of doing with Serbia. Do not appeal to the Constitutional Law and do not call on other things, for it has been months and in practice you have shown that you do not care. It is about very specific interests and what can happen to Serbia. We do not want Serbia to be left without Kosovo and Metohija, in order to allegedly be part of the European family, because we do not think that this is the kind of Serbia that needs Europe, and neither do we.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9048	We're going back to the amendment. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, then MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9049	There's no minister, but okay. (President: I ask the Minister, if he hears, to enter the O.R. I believe he's been through a medical examination. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, in the form in which it is now, was to be called a law on national and religious holidays. The MPs who submitted the amendment are right. In order for the law to be called a law on national and other holidays, these other holidays were to be foreseen. When I say those other holidays, I mean national minority holidays. However, the amendment is premature, because they themselves know very well that these national holidays should have been established and that these holiday proposals should have been confirmed by the Council of National Minorities. This would be some normal procedure, so that the state respects national minorities and their rights, but also national minorities respect the laws under which their rights are governed. So, this provision states that national minorities have the right to mark their holidays, established in accordance with the law, it really cannot enter this law. This law can be entered by dates or days when something is celebrated. In advance of saying that national minorities will determine their national holidays themselves, no one can, no one can. I urge representatives of national minorities to deliver such a single proposal to the National Assembly through the Council. The SRS parliamentary group won't mind supporting such a proposal before I'm in a dilemma about the whole concept of the law. I think we should write a new law. True, it was initiated by abolishing a common state that regulated some of the holidays of the common state. I am not for us to single out only our Orthodox as religious holidays in the Republic of Serbia and baptize the religious holidays of other religions as the unworkable days of those religions. I think it would be fairer, more congratulating that the first day of Christmas on January 7th and the Easter holidays were settled on state holidays, and then let's see which holidays come on religious holidays. This is how to single out our Orthodox holidays into religions, I don't think it's right. We're not a country based on that principle. It is true that we are a state of the Serbian people and other citizens, but we are also a modern civil state, which respects other peoples and other nations and their customs, and especially their faith, and that should indeed be pointed out. It is no problem at all, nor is it a shame to say that religious holidays and holidays are Orthodox, Muslim and Catholic, and even Yom Kippur, which is mentioned in the old law. What else was there to do? Why the Day of Work on May 1st and 2nd, two days off? You've come up with this work in Serbia, you've also devised the Day of Work, so I'd rather accept that we're not going to celebrate Victory Day, but it says - Victory Day over Fascism, because we've had a lot of victories. This holiday really should be called Victory Day over Fascism, but it's hard for me to do so with you, since you have abolished the name of Marshal Tolbuhin Street, General Zdanov, those who participated together with our citizens on 9 May in liberating our country from fascism. They disturbed you, and the streets that had worn their name for 50 years suddenly don't call them that, they got some new names, some other army leaders, foreign ones. I suppose it was due to these warlords that they should have taken a new day as a day of victory, to see what this Macenzie brought to Serbia, what freedom, so that that day when he brought freedom we celebrate as a holiday. If he is as a person more responsible for Serbia than Marshal Tolbuhin or General Zdanov, okay, I agree. Historically prove it to us here, and then that day he's so in charge of us, it's the day of victory. If the Day of Victory is May 9th compared to May 9, 1945, then it can't be regulated by you throwing out Russian heroes who fought with the Red Army on our territory, and putting in some who were in the same century, possibly in some kind of relationship with our struggles. That's what I have in general and as far as this amendment is concerned. So, apparently, they're partly right about the amendments, but they didn't respect the way. When they respect that path and when it's fully prepared, we're absolutely ready to support this amendment, but we're not. That is why I tell the representative of the Legislative Committee - the Legislative Committee could not adopt the view that the amendment is legally possible, it is indeed not legally possible, and it is justified only when it meets the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9050	The word has been made by MP Milica Radovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9051	I have reported on this amendment, agreeing that national minorities should have the right to unworkedly celebrate their national holidays, but such an idea simply doesn't deserve to be regulated by this law. As you know, there is a system law that will deal with the rights of all national minorities and will in a comprehensive way regulate this issue. However, I must say that I am very glad that the Republic of Serbia is in line with those rare states which and how they take care of their national minorities. I will only remind you that we have passed a Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, where we have predicted that the censorship of national minorities should be abolished in parliament. It is necessary that they cross only the natural threshold to be represented here as MPs. Also, I must say that in Serbia today there are about 150 primary schools where teaching is performed exclusively in the languages of national minorities. This is also how much progress is made, and how much concern the state has about the rights of national minorities. In Serbia, I also have to say, there are about 15 different national minorities living, and now I'm asking one logical question -- what would happen in a situation where each of these national minorities asks that all their national holidays be incorporated into the State Holidays Act and celebrated as state holidays? I'll only mention one example. In America, 10 million Mexicans live and no one, but no one, slows down the right to celebrate their holiday Sinko di May (Cinco de Mayo). So they celebrate their holiday, but they know how to celebrate it. It never occurred to them that they wanted this holiday to be celebrated as a state, because America would never accept it and it's perfectly natural and there are reasons for that. I have cited this example that it would be clear to the promoters that the matter of this amendment should absolutely not be put into this law, but should be regulated by a new system law that will only be passed, and I know that it is in preparation and that its adoption is expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9052	The word has been given by MP Bojana Aleksic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9053	I will not repeat what my colleague Milica Radovic said, of course, I support it, I just want to ask us all one question. It is clear that all parties in this assembly are to give the highest possible freedoms to members of national minorities and that there is a mood to pass one law that will regulate the matter concerning holidays that will celebrate national minorities and that no one disputes their right to do so. We were just talking about that it's not the matter that's contained in this law. What has come to my attention when we talk about this amendment and what seems strange to me is that the parties representing national minorities, meaning the official parties representing national minorities, there is the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, there are Muslim parties, there are two Roma parties, they have not raised this issue, they have not submitted this amendment, since it is clear to them that this should be the subject of another law, while respecting all the rights and freedoms that the state of Serbia has given them, because that is their state, as much as ours, but that question is being raised by members of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, which can still not be said to be a national party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9054	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9055	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I need to give quite a number of explanations. Unfortunately, many things are not clear to fellow Members. On the one hand, this amendment was not submitted by the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina MPs, but by Ambassador Pastor Balint and I, as SVM MPs. Secondly, I have to say, and I'm glad that Mr. Minister entered the O.R., is not preparing any system law on the rights of national minorities. This system law exists, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and the Law on Jurisdiction, the Selection and Financing of National Councils, which is one of the other rules that will regulate all other matters. I hope Mr. Secretary confirms this. As far as the Mexicans are concerned, it's a little humiliating to us, not very little, because the Mexicans in America are immigrants, and we in Serbia are not, so please, and all fellow MPs, that in future they are not comparing us with the Mexicans. As for the celebration of these holidays, we did not suggest that these holidays be national holidays, but we suggested that these holidays be national minorities' holidays, just as they are religious holidays. Religious holidays are celebrated only by citizens who belong to that particular religion. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, there seems to be some things to clarify. On the one hand, national councils are not authorized to establish national holidays for national minorities, but only to establish proposals. The proposals are confirmed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia; there are five other ministers in the body, and by the president of national councils. As far as prematureness is concerned, it has been five or six years since the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities on the basis of which national minorities were given the right to establish their holidays. I couldn't agree that today is too early to allow this right to happen to them. On the other hand, and this is important information, a large number of national councils have set out proposals for the holiday of national minorities and these proposals have been confirmed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia and published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Unfortunately, that happened another 23. 12. In 2005, when the council held its final session. From that day to today, other national councils have established their national holidays, confirmation is waiting and we hope it will happen at the next session of the Council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities, we do not know when. The problem with listing is that some national minorities have not formed, for now, national councils. Of course, we hope to do so, there are also some indications that this will be done in the future, so that this solution would be best, because we would leave this procedure open and it would not be necessary to change the law so that national minorities who do not yet have national advice would have the opportunity to establish their national holidays and later celebrate them unworkedly. In the end, I want to tell you that in this assembly when it comes to the rights of national minorities, the most popular word is 'but', in the sense that everyone advocates respect and a broad range of the rights of members of national minorities, but there is always some problem to ensure these rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9056	Replica has a National MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9057	There's no "but" in this country or in this congregation, you're wrong. This country fully provides rights to all national minorities. If you think something is not and something falls under 'but', go out for this pay phone and say which right of yours or some other national minority is not achieved and which right you cannot use. These flat-rate estimates about how you're being threatened by someone, you just don't know which, they can't be the subject of a debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't insult the Mexicans. In New Mexico, they are about what you are in Serbia. That's where they were born, where their ancestors were born, they fell under another state, they need to exercise their rights. You were born in Serbia, your ancestors in Serbia, should give you other rights. It's the exact same relationship. Don't, as soon as you get on the field, judge someone else, speak underestimatingly. So the Mexicans are also a people worth mentioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9058	According to the amendment, MP Predrag Mijailovic Lune has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, dear ministers, dear brothers and sisters, I would like to say to my fellow Varga and to all the other national minorities that no country in the world has given more rights than our Serbia has given to national minorities. It may seem to someone that this state holiday law is irrelevant. It's important. We all know that one country in the world is recognized for its anthem, coat of arms, flags, and national holidays. Look how everyone celebrates their national holiday. That and the Republic of Serbia, our Serbia, must and should do so. She could do so thanks to the new constitution being adopted, because the Constitution defined everything, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the patient functioning of the DSS, which from day to day, has patiently led to a national consensus and to the fact that we have received the Constitution adopted in the referendum. So, Mr. Laszlo, I'm going to read you the first member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I'm going to prove to you that none of the commas, not that it's fulfilled in this Law on State and Other Holidays. Here, in Article 1. The constitution defines Serbia as the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. Here, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, as the Republic of Serbia has arranged through the State Holidays Act. She has so arranged for a member of the Constitution and in Article 1. The law on national holidays in the Republic of Serbia states that the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is a meeting, February 15th. Gentlemen, all of us who are citizens of Serbia who feel that the state of Serbia is ours, and I hope we all feel that, whether we are minority or majority... is when it's 1804. Karadjorge raised his uprising when he removed the Ottoman Empire from this space. Gentlemen, and then it was said it was a democratic revolution at the time. Gentlemen, on the day of the 1835 meeting, Serbia's Principality brings a democratic constitution, which does not like then Europe and the Principality of Serbia must abolish it. In that constitution, Members of the People's Parliament, it is clear that Europe was no match for Serbia. Europe's 1835 helmet for Serbia as regards democracy, human rights and minority rights. Are you saying that's not the case, gentlemen? Come on, give me an argument. Is that how you're supposed to laugh in the American Parliament, English or something? I'm glad you can throw it away and I'm proud to be a Serb, living in Serbia and being given the right to national minorities. What better way to go in one country than if you're completely free, and we all need to be equal and free. Then, in Article 2, religious holidays are celebrated in Serbia: the first day of Christmas and Easter, starting on the Big Friday, with the second day of Easter. Article 4 reaffirms that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic state and that it has strict regard for minority rights, so as not to damage the rights of minorities, just as well as to the harm of the majority, of the Serbian people. Here's how it's arranged. It is arranged so that Orthodox people do not work on the day of the baptism of glory, Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities on the first day of Christmas and Easter holidays, starting with the second day of Easter holidays on their calendar; members of the Islamic community on the first day of Ramadan Bajram and the first day of Kurban Bajram; members of the Jewish community on the day of Jom Kippur. It makes it clear that the Orthodox Serbian people, although they are majority, have no more rights than other religious communities. This is what I am as a Serb and Orthodox proud of, that all faiths here are even. Is there anything, ladies and gentlemen, that you can tell me that there isn't, that our Serbia and the Serbian people or the Orthodox Church are favored? You can't say that. You can only laugh sourly and I'm glad you can laugh like that and no one resents you because you're in Serbia. If you were in another country, it would be different, but thank God you're in Serbia and you have all the rights. In addition to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, it is proposed that the international holidays of the New Year - January 1st and 2nd, the Day of Work - May 1st and 2nd, as well as the Day of Victory on May 9th, be state holidays. Therefore, from all of this, gentlemen who have submitted amendments, find something from Article 1. The constitution, without Serbia meeting it; all European norms and more than European norms have met. That's why I believe, Mr. Varga, that your amendment should not be adopted. I'll give you one more reason why he doesn't need to be adopted. In an amendment to the Law on State and Other Holidays... For example, you all know that the Holy Sava, a holiday of great spiritual, religious, Orthodox and enlightening importance for Serbs, is celebrated at work, and Vidovdan is celebrated at work. No one from the national minorities forbids you to choose your day tomorrow and rejoice in the evening, call, and on our Holy Sava and Vidovdan we will invite you, we hope you will come; and you will come, for you feel this country as your country, and I will come to your holiday, for I feel you as my closest fellow citizens, as brothers, as sisters. Finally, let me ask you, Varga, is this all in Hungary? No, I don't. To tell you the truth, do Serbs have what you have here in Serbia? They don't. That's why, brothers, we don't have to keep making up extra holidays, then the holiday after the holiday, when are we going to work?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9060	I thank Mr. Mijailovic for his exhaustive speech. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Lasslo Varga called, and then, hopefully, the last speaker, Srdjan Shin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9061	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of section 104. The Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly, according to which MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I don't think talking to a "you" of a national MP is a courtesy address, so I'd ask my colleague to do it in the future, at least in relation to me, it doesn't work. On the other hand, just one explanation. As far as national holidays are concerned, I fully agree with the part of my predecessor's exposure, but this law is not only about state law, but also about other holidays, the law on state, religious, and if our amendment were to be accepted, it would also be the law on national holidays of national minorities. I don't see any cohesion in that sense and no problem. It's second if there's a political will for this request to be fulfilled. Of course, it will not be difficult for you to explain, it will be, above all, difficult to explain to the members of the DS and G17 Plus MPs who are members of national minorities, who will be forced to vote against this amendment because of party discipline, and when they go to their communities, then it will be their problem to explain why they did so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9062	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9063	Dear fellow Members, I would only ask all MPs, especially those who sometimes use the question of national minorities to court either their constituents or their own once, not knowing what, in fact, Serbian voters think, to try when themes like this are initiated by the Duke Hungarian Union to speak of it in a practical way and to analyze whether it is necessary or not, not entering into details, if someone has something, then someone here needs something to have. The Roma come from India and I am Roma. I am not a representative of the Indian state here, nor their ambassador, nor any attaché at the Indian embassy, I am a citizen of Serbia. I am primarily a Serbian citizen and I am not a representative of any other state and that is all I am. Well, it bothers me a little bit when someone comes out for a pay phone and says, "Well, some minority representatives there have that." You know, I don't care what anybody's got in another country. I am interested here in Serbia in what rights we have as citizens of Serbia, as representatives of the national communities in Serbia, and the one who is interested in something there so as to establish a question of reciprocity, I am really not in favour of it. Secondly, I don't think you're any bigger member of the SPC and that faith than I am, and I think that in these things we'd have to move some things a little bit, so we'd have to show a certain sense of that tolerance in this House. Let's not always use, as soon as the minority is mentioned, so we don't use it to prove whether it's bigger or smaller... Now it would be best if I said that at 23 o'clock in Pogorevec, one child was killed, that what, by the circumstances, was a member of the Roma national minority and that it was done on a national basis; that child is 19 years old. We can't say it's on a national basis, because we have to wait for the state authorities to question it, so the prosecution can answer that. Now it would be best if I were making a political problem out of it in the Assembly. I say we wait, I don't make that, I just want to answer that... No, I mean, the paper says that, Mr. Nikolic, it says that some people think it's national. So, what I'm saying is, just as I'm against the abuse of relations with the Roma minority, I'm against the fact that representatives of the Roma national minority abuse such an event and support such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9064	There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the Messenger John Palalic. I would like to inform the MPs present to attend this part of the session the students of the Sremskomitrova High School, who are upstairs on the balcony. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would like to inform the National Assembly and the public of Serbia that the Belgrade District Court has adopted a request from the Serbian Liberal Party, the Association of Yugoslav Army members in the country, the Association of Political Prisoners and Victims of the Communist regime, the Association of Librarians of Serbia, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the youth of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Nada Gomic-Vukovic for Rehabilitation of the now late Slobodan Jovanovic. It is determined that the Supreme Court's ruling is FNRJ, the Military Council, the Court of Justice No. 1/46, of 15. Seven. In 1946, nothing since the moment of its adoption and that the zeroes are all its legal consequences, and the rehabilitated person, now the late Slobodan Jovanovic, is considered unjudged. [[Applause]] I believe this is an important act of correcting injustice against one of the greatest political and legal thinkers in Serbia's history, a man who understood the political processes and political constitutional history of Serbia in the 19th century, who, in difficult conditions, knew how to define Serbian national interests, and whom every Serb in Serbia and in Serbia can be proud of. The Democratic Party of Serbia has inherited his work and is expressing great satisfaction on this occasion. I believe that, at this time, all those who have studied in the work of Slobodan Jovanovic are proud and feel that this is an important event. In this sense, I would like to point out once again that the Belgrade District Court has made a right and valid decision, to the joy of all respecters of Slobodan Jovanovic's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9066	I thank the People's MP, John Palalic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, appeared. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9067	I would like to say to the Belgrade District Court spokesman that the verdict is in place, such as in the place of many judgments on the rehabilitation of many people, so you are not here at the Parliament for the Speaker's Office to be the quality of these verdicts. If you had inherited the work of Slobodan Jovanovic, yes, and to inherit it now, do not inherit it. For if you had read anything from him and understood anything from him, you would not have played with the Constitution and the laws of this land. If something could teach you his capital work, and I bought it when it was secretly issued, when it wasn't even allowed to betray the works, then you would learn that the state rests on the Constitution and on the laws. Mr. Palalic, thank you for that information. We'd get it from the papers. Perhaps this was your wish to say that you had an impact on the District Court, so you insisted that the verdict be passed. I don't see any other reason why you're making such a euphoric announcement here. I repeat, behave in accordance with Slobodan Jovanovic's work and it will be the biggest prize for Slobodan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9068	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. Since no one is responding to this amendment anymore, we have completed a search of the bill in particular. Does the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the State Seal of the Republic of Serbia (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Slavko Jerković and Milorad Buha on the bill. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Alexander Martinovic, the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I have to say that the Institute of State Seals as a legal institute has never existed in the Republic of Serbia before. We had a law on the sealing of state and other bodies. The Serbian government is now proposing a bill on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I can understand it, the government wants me to introduce this kind of seal into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to make certain political and legal importance to decisions made by the most important state bodies. In Article 2. The draft law lists certain state institutions whose decisions are subject to the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the state authorities on which the state seals are placed were chosen by some criteria that the government had. I don't want to go into those criteria. It is clear that the government wanted to point out in Article 2 that the state seal is being placed on the acts of the most important state authorities, therefore, on the acts of those state authorities whose decisions have the greatest political and legal importance. I can't understand why in Article 2. The bill does not specify that the state seal is also placed on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. You see, the Constitutional Court is a roof, or supreme institution that defends constitutionality and legality in one country. As important as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to pass laws, however important the Government that enforces these laws is, at least to the same extent, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which should give the last word on whether certain legal acts are in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not. When the Constitutional Court says that a regulation is in accordance with the Constitution, then there is an end, then there is no debate of constitutional nature. This brings about any controversy as to whether something is in conformity with the Constitution or not. I think it would be absolutely right to take Article 2. The proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is complemented by "consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia" adding the words "the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia". So, I think it would really be too much and necessary to include in the bill a provision for the state seal to be placed on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The issue is significant not only in terms of this law, but also in the sense that the Republic of Serbia, here, at the end of 2007, has not yet been established by the Constitutional Court. As soon as one state does not have a Constitutional Court, and the Constitution provides for its existence, it means that it is a state with a serious legal flaw. In order to finally remove this flaw from our legal system, it is necessary to raise the authority of the Constitutional Court institution, firstly by the Government and the President of the National Assembly finally implementing the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and proposing to us the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, therefore, to form that institution. On the other hand, when we form it that we make it completely independent and independent and introduce in the draft state seal law a provision under which the state seal will also be placed on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We in the Serbian Radical Party think it would raise the importance of Serbia's Constitutional Court, its authority. At the same time, it would raise the authority and decisions the Serbian Constitutional Court will make. Let me remind you, the Constitutional Court is not just defending constitutionality and legality. He does not just decide whether some law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. The Constitutional Court plays an extremely important role in protecting human rights and freedom. Serbia's constitution is prescribed -- if the citizen has exhausted all legal mechanisms in the protection of his individual rights and freedoms, the last means left at his disposal is the institution of constitutional appeals. So he can file a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which should give his word on whether an individual citizen's right has been violated or not. I think that by accepting this amendment, we would also give this importance to the Constitutional Court, not only as a defender of constitutionality and legality, but also as a defender of individual human rights and freedoms. At a time when everyone is talking about human rights and freedoms, when a party gives its party a basic sign that it is fighting for human rights and freedoms, when even countries are bombarded because of the alleged threat to human rights and freedoms, I think it would be extremely important to raise the reputation of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, to form it and to pass such a law on the state seal that will predict that the state seal as a symbol of statehood, as a symbol of the authority of the state institutions, is also placed on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I call on all MPs, I call on representatives of the ruling coalition, Mr. Minister Markovic, who is not here again, to accept this amendment, because I think the amendment is in the spirit of the proposed law and, of course, is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9070	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this amendment to Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic. Natasa Jovanovic, my colleague, reported earlier, and then Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, not only is it for who knows which time the distinguished colleague Martinovic said, but it is a general problem in the state that we do not have a Constitutional Court at this time and we haven't had it for a long time before the constitution was adopted last year. In fact, since the coming of DOS to power over a period of years, there has been no Constitutional Court, and the one who existed was of political character, headed by the then President of the Constitutional Court. As counterpart Martinovic said, since this is a completely new law-edited area, it is quite fine to think rationally and think based on the practice so far. All Serbian citizens know that when they get a decision in a regular court procedure in front of a municipal, county, trade or other court (I am saying this to explain to them what we are talking about here and why we insist and that the decisions of the Constitutional Court be approved by the state seal of the Republic of Serbia) get that decision with the seal. Now, the question can be asked why fellow Martinovic's ideas, as the next item of the agenda on the stamp of state and other bodies is to include the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in this law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that in Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects the constitutionality and legality of human and minority rights and freedoms. So, we don't have it, but let's wait and see when it's coming. But isn't it more logical, since it is the highest court and the Constitutional Court in every sense should say that it should identify itself, as one of three branches of government, with the state and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the National Assembly, that in this rank and in this law it should be a place for the seal of the Constitutional Court, and not in the next, where it is not even foreseen in a precise way? You have no reason to run away from this amendment at all or to give such an explanation (that is, the Government, there is now no Proposer of Minister Markovic), which has nothing to do with the recent arguments of counterpart Martinovic or what I am saying. If you look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that the only place for the seal of the Constitutional Court is in this law. Think about it, you don't have to reject everything because it comes from the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Although you have considered it to be in the law of the sealing of state and other bodies, it is not the place for the Constitutional Court, as the most judicial instance, which should protect all this which is stated in the Constitution. I'm sorry that at this point, but he'll probably come back, Minister Markovic is not here to hear. Here, I also call on you, fellow parties who support this government and make it, you are in that coalition, to say what is your problem and what is your opinion on the amendment of counterpart Martinovic. If for the first time in this way we determine what it should look like and what the seal of the Republic of Serbia should be used, then why it is disputed to accept the amendment of counterpart Martinovic. It's his only place in this law. Or you missed it, so now you won't admit it, as we can see in the previous law there were numerous misdemeanors in Balinchev, when the law on civil servants and tenants was written. Here, it's the first time you've ever made a law, and it's no problem to admit that it was a mistake, that you didn't do it, but there's a great lawyer, a colleague who corrected you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9072	I would like to thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, the MP, the vice president of the Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9073	Mr. Chairman, MPs, dear colleagues, the state seal is an extraordinary seal. In the end, it also shows a proposal for this law that lies before us today. He also organizes his appearance, use, and manner of keeping. As such, the national seal cannot be placed on all documents that appear, or can only be placed on those of national importance. In Article 2. The proposal for a State seal law is detailed and lists the documents on which the State seal is to be placed. I am now quoting Article 2: "The state seal is placed on: decisions of the National Assembly on the declaration of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law and acts on the election of officials that the National Assembly performs directly on the basis of the Constitution; acts signed by the President of the Republic of Serbia in the framework of constitutional powers of representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad; statements of the declaration of law; indications of the appointment and denunciation of the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia and the instruments of award of distinction; international contracts signed by the Prime Minister and acts of the Government on the appointment and recall of consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the originals of other acts for which it is laid down by law. "The amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic foresees that after the words of "consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia" the words "and decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia". Of course, the Constitutional Court is certainly an institution of special importance and, within its Constitution of certain obligations, it makes various decisions, but not all decisions it makes of national importance. So, they don't meet the criteria that the bill provides for to be state-owned and state-owned. Let's just say, it's some protocol documents. They're not of state importance and it's perfectly fine not to have a state seal on them. In addition, Article 2 of this law does not exclude the possibility that a state seal could be placed on any other act, but it would be good, and that is also the idea of the government, that some other law, in particular, would precisely regulate which decisions the Constitutional Court may and should be stamped on by the state of Serbia. So, as I understood things, the character, type and significance of the act depends, of course, on the kind of seal that will be used. That is why I think, here is my colleague Markovic, who agrees that the solution offered by the government is better and that this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9074	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Milic Vojic-Markovic. The replica was sought by Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, and then by Goran Rakovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the lady who spoke before me says that the State seal law contains some criteria on which the Government has decided that the state seal should only be placed on the acts referred to in Article 2. A bill of law, and that's not true. The law does not contain any criteria on the basis of which it is decided that only those acts referred to in Article 2 are to be placed on the national stamp. We can only assume what the government's intensity was. There's no criteria. I believe that the government's intensity was to place the state seal on those acts, that is, those decisions by the state authorities that are most important to the state. There is no doubt that Serbia's Constitutional Court is one of the most important state institutions. As important as the National Assembly is to pass certain laws, so is the Constitutional Court that can say, gentlemen, you have passed the law, but the law does not comply with the Constitution. Then what about the National Assembly? As you can see, the Constitutional Court in the law-making process and in its application can have even more importance than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it does not end here when the law is passed. Someone might ask if the law is in accordance with the Constitution. The People's MPs answer that question, not the Constitutional Court. No matter how important the work of the MPs and the acts they adopt, and above all, the laws, at least to the same extent, are the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I remind you one more time. Many laws that remain a dead letter in the paper foresee the possibility for citizens to appeal to the Constitutional Court to protect their rights. Remember only how many times that famous phrase is mentioned - so let the court speak its word; let the court say whether something is done by law or not. How can the court say its word if the court does not, in this case, the Constitutional Court of Serbia? Tomorrow, if that constitutional court is finally formed, why not put a state seal on its decisions? The lady says the Constitutional Court is passing some protocol acts. I really don't know what kind of act these are. There is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that prescribes what the Constitutional Court does. We'll pass the Constitutional Court Act. The Constitutional Court cannot now pass any acts which are not prescribed by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Court law. It's clear what the Constitutional Court is doing. First of all, it is his primary duty to protect constitutionality and legality, to make decisions on whether the general act is in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not, and on the other hand, to protect human rights and freedoms through the institution of constitutional appeals. What's so terrible about putting a state seal on such decisions? I see no reason why an indication of the appointment of the ambassador of the Republic of Serbia would be more important than the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I don't want to insult any state, I don't want to cause any international scandals, but why would an order to put ambassadors there in some country, who knows where, where there may not be any of our people, be more important than the Constitutional Court's decision on whether it was in accordance with the constitution of the law passed by the National Assembly? Remember, the ruling majority in this assembly a few months ago, when we talked about the Civil Service Act, went back in time, retroactively applied the Law on Civil Servants, although there was no constitutional basis for it. Many human rights can be questioned. The government is now proposing, when we talk about the Government Act, that there are some acts that are never published. What do we do with that? Which institution will defend human rights? Neither does a citizen know if the government has brought in an act, nor can he read it. Now take away his right to address the Constitutional Court, that is, take away the right of the Constitutional Court to place a state seal on its decisions. It's the collapse of the basic institutions of this system. There is not only a government and only a ministry in the state of Serbia. There are also citizens, who should address the Constitutional Court in order to protect their rights. There's really no reason to, except for your mere will, to say -- we won't accept the amendment because it came from the Serbian Radical Party. There's no reason to be a member of 2. The bill does not complement one quite correct provision, that the state seal should also be placed on Serbian Constitutional Court decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9076	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Last speaker, Mr. Momir Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we had a Constitutional Court, as we don't have it, then the Constitutional Court would interpret the constitutionality and legality of certain acts and then it wouldn't be a problem where the state seal and the other seals would be placed, on which act, on which document, on which paper. Since there is no Constitutional Court to interpret where to place the seals, so today could not be stamped on paper, so no paper was brought into the municipality of Ruma, where a group was masked, I suppose the police, although it does not have to mean, two buses, one "Strem" - Shid and one "Lasta" - Stara Pazova, came to force, democratically take up the building of Ruma municipality. Since they had no paper and since the president of the municipality of Ruma, MP Martinovic and So Ruma insisted on being shown paper or to withdraw, all 60 or 70, as many as there were, they refused and left the scene. With them was a certain lady who falsely represented herself as belonging to "the ministry for working against local self-government", because she did not show a paper to be legitimateized. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, free elections to Serbia, if the "minister against local self-government" can organise and pay (because why should we go free unless the police minister sent them) to raid a state institution, an institution of local self-government, to seize power. Because if he can't do the election, if he can't do the election results, if he can't do the ballots, he can force it. They say the Force of God does not beg. This time, your force didn't work out. Try some nicer method, you might be able to ask SO Rum's councilmen to give you that chair, at least for two hours, to feel what it looks like, which is a pleasure to rule one radical municipality, of course in your spare time, because people work somewhere until 6-7 in the evening, from 7 to 9 we'll be able to let you sit in that chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9078	I thank Mr. Momir Markovic. Resume session at 15.00 hours. The first speaker will be the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac. According to the Rules of Procedure, as the first speaker after the break, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9079	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The People's MP Goran Rakovac comes to the word. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9080	Dear fellow MPs, counterpart Martinovic (I see he is not here right now) submitted an amendment asking for the words "consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia" to be added to the words "the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia". Mr Martinovic explained his amendment and in the light of why this amendment should be accepted, he stated, among other things, that since we have three branches of government, legislative, executive, judicial, that legislative examination is primarily in the work of Parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority, executive in the work of the Government, as the highest authority of the executive authority, and that the Constitutional Court, as a pandan, is the highest, most significant and most important body of the judiciary and should use the state seal when making its decisions, as does the government, that is, as the parliament does. The government has made a recommendation not to accept this amendment and has given a very clear explanation. The Constitutional Court shall, in the framework of its Constitution, adopt three types of acts: decisions, solutions and conclusions. The amendment requires that a state seal be used to make decisions. However, a question arises which all sorts of decisions and decisions are made by the Constitutional Court, what are the importance and whether the state seal should be used for this type of action. The government has come to the conclusion that the state seal of the Republic of Serbia should not be used. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that the bill provides for other acts on which the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is to be laid down by law, which in certain cases enables the specific law to precisely regulate upon which any decision by the Constitutional Court could be stamped by the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that the Constitutional Court is one independent and how important the country's institution is. The fact is that he is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. The fact is that his decisions are both final and executive and binding. But all these facts do not suggest that the seal of the Serbian state should be used when making decisions of the Constitutional Court. The arguments given by the government are quite good and satisfying. This amendment, in any case, should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9081	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9082	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 3 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The draft law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia not only is legally possible, but this law brings the adoption of this amendment into constitutional state, in which the bill is now not. Article 3 The bill says, "The state seal is a round shape, 60 mm in diameter. In the middle of the state seal is the great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. In a circle around the coat of arms, the name of the Republic of Serbia is written, with the word "Republic" written above the coat of arms and the word "Serbia" under the coat of arms. I suggested that this article be deleted because, as explained in Article 7(5), it is in Article 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that the appearance of the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia be established by law. There is no legal basis, fellow MPs, to pass a state seal law that mentions the term "great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia" and that the previous matter of state symbols is not governed by a special law. In Article 7. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the last position is said: "The appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem is governed by law. "It's not the law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, it's a law that should just be called the law on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have such a law right now, and you'll definitely agree to that. That is why I find it inconclusive, not to say the incredible, explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment is not accepted. The government says: "The amendment is not accepted since Article 3 is accepted. The bill regulates the appearance and contents of the national seal. By erasing this article, the appearance and contents of the national seal would remain unarranged. "Then the government overwrites what is already written in the bill. If the Government's argument is that eradicating this member means that the contents of the state seal would remain unregulated by law, then why didn't you put the Constitutional Court in this law, and the laws in the field of justice, and the law on VAT change and delete VAT on baby equipment, which the SRS is proposing to you from the introduction of VAT itself, etc. So everything that wasn't regulated by some law was supposed to be laid down in this law, and then any amendment to the government could explain that it was unacceptable, because that matter would remain unprotected by law. So we should have here and a bill of law on the use of national coat of arms, flag and anthem and then regulate the existence of a big seal, a small seal, and so on. and only under this law would we have the legal basis for adopting such a provision, or otherwise, which would be regulated by this law that should precede this law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for you to tell the story of how the government works a lot and how the government is burying the Parliament with the bill's proposals, in this 34-point agenda group, because that sounds like the government of 34 or 32 of the bill has submitted to the Republic's parliament, you have chosen the laws that you have assessed will pass in this House without debate, without amendments, not so important that the MPs don't know how much they deal with it. Of course, you understand that this is not exactly the case, that we Serbian radicals are seriously considering every proposal from the government. This law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia – without which we could have been able to function automatically, and without the Constitutional Court, I remind you, the state cannot function – and this Article 3., if you do not accept the amendment of the SRS, could be a topic in the Constitutional Court. I'm telling you, we have a Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court would declare the provision of this bill illegal when it is in its final form. If you've already proposed this law, we think it would be good... First, it would be necessary for the minister to sit here so that we could eventually convince him to accept this amendment. When we have already received and placed in the agenda and these laws, we think that at least these laws need to be brought in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law. There's not much politics in these laws. There are no political programs. The state seal should exist. Now let's just see that the law is such that there's no need for any future government to have to deal with and that it has to change this law, because at least this law can be passed and more permanent, not to say permanent character. That is why we think it would be good for our amendment to be adopted, the law to be likened to existing legislation and, in any case, to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since we have received a reply from the Government, and there is no minister here, I expect fellow MPs to understand in the right way this amendment of ours, primarily as constructive, well-intentioned. I'm already in the third session of this House, come on, ladies and gentlemen, to pass at least one law on which amendments and additions will not be discussed in a few months. When you propose to us one day or when another government proposes a law on the use of national coat of arms, flags, and anthem, it is not logical that this law is characterized by some law that is under the logic of the lower rank. We already have, I suppose, and that will be on the agenda, completely absurd legal considerations. For example, the draft law on the National Assembly has several members, believe it or not, where it says that this member is in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, you're totally chasing the order, chasing the grandmothers and frogs. Allow me, if someone really legally explains a proposal to you, accept it. This is absolutely, I repeat, not touching the concept of the law or the ideologies of the promoter. It is simply, only legally possible, constitutionally and legally, that is exactly the solution I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. There's no minister here. I was going to use this amendment to ask him and remind him, but I'll do it in his absence. It may come right from where I think it should have been long ago, which is to look at the documentation from the Belgrade City Assembly, to order the Belgrade City Assembly to put out force or to abolish the act on the appointment of Zoran Alimpic as president of the Belgrade Parliament and Mr. Perovic as deputy president. Let me remind you, first of all, for public purposes, it was that transnge-fange replacement between DS and DSS, completely illegal. To resolve such matters, under the right of supervision, is a prejudicial obligation of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. When Mr. Milan Markovic brings in an appropriate act, then we may have a basis for calling him Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government in the future. As long as such an unconstitutional and illegal situation is in place in Belgrade, for Serbian Radicals Milan Markovic will be "Minister of State Administration and Against Local Self-Government". Someone who represents the state seal law here would have to be much more serious, much more responsible when it comes to law enforcement. Of course, the use of not only the state seal, but the seal of the organ... And Mr. Milan Markovic is headed by an authority responsible for the functioning of local self-government in Serbia, and I remind you that he has done nothing to settle the situation in local self-governments, on the contrary, in 10 municipalities in Serbia we have a temporary administration, which is completely contrary to the law and to the existing party relationship in these municipalities. Mr. Milan Markovic does nothing to make this situation change, not to inform Oliver Dulic that it has long been his obligation to call elections in all these municipalities, as he has not said in public that Oliver Dulic was under obligation last Friday to call elections for Belgrade's mayor. Since there was a debate in the morning on the subject, to remind colleagues who have tried to completely twist the story in favour of their party, who cannot handle this situation, that elections for Belgrade mayor and elections for the president of the Republic are completely different at this point. The city of Belgrade, in accordance with the applicable rules, must have a mayor. He's gone, unfortunately. Unfortunately, because Nenad Bogdanovic died. I wish it wasn't and we weren't discussing it. But when that happens, then the ministry must take certain steps, the president of parliament must take certain steps, and that is very concrete - the vote for mayor of Belgrade. Just one more remark. I'm surprised it hasn't been commented on. Actually, it's not gonna be an observation, it's a question I'm referring to Vuk Jeremic. We heard from this place yesterday that in Novi Sad, Vuk Jeremic and Bojan Pajtic promised Vojvodina, so it is said that they will have a number of ambassadors, that there will be a number of ambassadors from Vojvodina in countries where Vojvodina has a special interest. For all I know, Vojvodina is Serbia. I ask Mr Vuk Jeremic to answer us what these interests are where Vojvodina has some special interests in relation to the entire territory of Serbia, which are countries, why in these countries. Of course, we don't mind having ambassadors from Vojvodina, Shumadia, Kosovo Mitrovica, Pirota and not counting, of course, from every place in Serbia, but not because of their territorial spread, but because of their expertise, because of the assessment that these people can represent Serbia in certain countries. This finding by Mr. Vuk Jeremic and his party colleague, Bojan Pajtic, believe me, is very dangerous and I insist that I get an answer to that parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9083	The word has been given by MP Donka Banovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9084	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, the truth is working, I will say that all DSS MPs are seriously considering draft laws that are coming to the National Assembly, and we are also seriously considering amendments that are mostly submitted by MPs from the opposition. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to regulate the use and appearance of the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the existence of the state union, Serbia-Montenegro needs to be regulated by law, in order to create a legal basis for the Republic of Serbia to have its own state seal. The law regulates that the state seal is placed on the decisions of the National Assembly on the declaration of the Constitution and of the Constitutional Law, on acts signed by the President of the Republic in the framework of constitutional powers, on acts and indications of the declaration of the law, on indications of the appointment and denunciation of the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the originals of other acts for which it is laid down by law. As criteria for determining the acts on which the state seal is placed, decisions and other legal acts taken by the highest state bodies, i.e. the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government, have been taken into account. The appearance, content and manner of printing of the state seal are governed by Articles 3, 4 and 5. It's a bill of law. A major coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia stands in the middle of the state seal when editing the state seal content. The reason for determining the use of large coat of arms in the composition of the state seal, and before the law is passed which will regulate the appearance and use of the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, is that the state seal was not established at the time of the adoption of the Recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. In view of this, the use of coat of arms in the composition of the national seal could not be arranged. Now I'm going to read Article 3, for which Radeta's colleague proposes to delete, and he says, "The state seal is a round shape, 60 millimeter diameter. In the middle of the state seal is the great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. In a circle around the coat of arms, the name of the Republic of Serbia is written by writing the word "Republic" above the coat of arms and the word "Serbia" under the coat of arms. So, I don't think the amendment to the Honorable colleague of Radet should be accepted because it provides for the erasure of this very important member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9085	The word has been given by MP Bojana Aleksic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9086	I'd just like to resort to the presentation of my colleague, Donka Banovic, who spoke before me. She made all the arguments she didn't need to accept this amendment for. I'd just like to rephrase Mrs. Radetti in some way, say that if the state coat of arms isn't used on the national seal, then what will it be used on? I guess that's the most basic possible use of the state coat of arms. Secondly, the National Assembly recommended, as the highest institution in the Republic of Serbia, that a state coat of arms be used for this purpose. So it makes sense to do something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9087	Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a state seal law in order to finally give meaning to this Constitutional Court. We have a member of the 9th. The law implementing the Constitution which was not respected until today in terms of elections, i.e. the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, which should have been implemented by the first regular session of the National Assembly at the latest. It hasn't been done yet. We remember the pre-election processes, remember the pre-election promises, remember the strengthening of institutions, especially Vojislav Kostunica was sworn in the legality and legality of institutions. I ask the question of what about the Constitutional Court, which is why he has not been formed so far, and why have the judges of the Constitutional Court not been elected? The amendment I submitted to Article 4 refers to the fact that the state seal is made in four identical copies to be printed in chemical paper. The state seal, in four identical copies, is also made to obtain prints in the seal wax, as well as for dry prints. In Article 2. The draft state seal law provides for what everything and decisions are to be placed on by the State. Why doesn't the state seal be placed on the Constitutional Court's decisions? Why wasn't this bill supposed to happen? I leave this as a question for all of us, and I believe that the Constitutional Court institution is not negligible and that it is necessary to accept this amendment in order to go to the rule of law and to finally understand the importance of this Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9089	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9090	The President-in-Office, the reason for the adoption of the law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is because it is necessary to regulate this matter in the legal legislation of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you that there was a Law on the state seal of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro since 2003. After the state union ceases to exist, this parliament should settle this matter as well. How seriously the DSS MPs consider every legislative proposal, all the amendments submitted, whether they come from the ranks of the opposition or from the DSS, and this is what Mr Markovic, the minister, has witnessed today, by accepting the amendment of a respected counterpart, Peter Cvetkovic, tells the fact that the Democratic Party of Serbia had a special meeting of the parliamentary club dedicated to amendments related to this whole agenda, and especially to the law on the state seal and to the law on the sealing of state authorities. There was also a representative of the competent ministry to explain to us all the concerns that we had about this law, given that this is about new matter and the new law of Article 4, which we are talking about and on which the amendment was submitted, reads: "The state seal is made in three identical copies to obtain a print with chemical paint on paper". The second attitude is also related to three identical copies, only it can be used to get prints in the seal wax, as well as dry prints. I understood a colleague who submitted the amendment in such a way that he suggested that this seal be made in four identical copies. In order to clarify these misunderstandings, I will, as it is about paint, wax and other things, not to make a mistake, to read one part of the explanation: ''The state seal is projected to be made in three identical copies to get prints of chemical paint on paper, and can be made in three identical copies to get prints in seal wax, as well as dry prints. Such a solution has been proposed since the acts on which the state seal is placed fall within the competence of the three state authorities - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. ''In accordance with this, the Secretary of the President of the Republic, the Secretary of the Government and the Secretary of the National Assembly apply for the production of this seal and are obliged to make sure that the state seal is used. The counterpart Jerkovic's amendment proposes that four identical copies be made. In the government's explanation, we have clearly got a reason why this amendment was not accepted. The Constitutional Court, you have heard this from my predecessors, MPs from the DSS, may, within the framework of their Constitution of established jurisdiction, bring other acts, on which no state seal is placed. So other acts on which the state seal of the Republic of Serbia can be laid down can also be laid down by law. I took this proposal as a request to create a seal that would be used by the Constitutional Court. I think it is clear from a given explanation that we received from the competent ministry and in the Government's view that there is no need for this fourth copy and that these three copies and the bodies authorised by law and the Constitution to use the state seal are fully sufficient for this law to find its application in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9091	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9092	When I read the bill of law, i.e. when I received the Bill on the State Seal, I immediately came up with an association - here are at least three more jobs for some of the Democrats who failed in all these associations that they invented to employ. It will be the guardians of the state seal, so in the chammer, as in Milos Obrenović's time, they will wear the seal and only at a certain point open that bag with the seal and pound the seal. They reassured me of this explanation because they said that the secretary of the National Assembly, the Secretary General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary General of the Government would be in charge of these seals. Mr. Slavko Jerkovic asked with his amendment to delete three and place number four. So, four national seals. Of course, the fourth state seal should be in the Constitutional Court; the Constitutional Court is an institution above these institutions, because it will interpret the implementation of laws adopted by the National Assembly. The explanation is so dry and so unmistakable that there is no real reason why the amendment of MP Slavko Jerkovic was not adopted, unless it is because he is the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's People's MP. He says like this... After all, if this law meant anything to this government, today the "Minister Against Local Self-Government" would be sitting here in the front row. I call again on the chairman to stop the session after my discussion, take a break and bring the "Minister Against Local Self-Government" to sit here and listen to the MPs. It's his only job, unless he's taking down local self-government institutions somewhere, unless he's picked up an informal group and went somewhere to take power where the SRS is in power. To remind the "Minister v. Local Self-Government" of another information: it is not 10 municipalities, 11 municipalities, the 11th is Cicevic. If I'm not mistaken, 24. This 6th year has been four years since the last election, and you are under obligation... Or, if the "minister against local self-government" were there, I would tell him today that he is obliged to call the election. Of course they won't be called, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, because there are "yellows" in Cicic, and there is a latent danger of not being in opposition after the local elections. There's a latent danger of a "yellow company" having one or no councilmen. However, and this one Serbian radical, I promise, will hold as little water on his hand until he evaporates. Let's go back to the explanation they gave to the MP Slavko Jerkovic. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation under Amendment 1. In addition, the solution contained in the bill provides personal responsibility" etc. And there comes what I read at the beginning. Let's see what that explains for Amendment 1. The government has chosen to say, "Amendment is not accepted. Constitutional Court... "I ask the chairman to appease the ruling party's few MPs. It's that she's panicking, she's not being given radical authority in the Ruma municipality, she won't be given anywhere, calm down; when you call the election, you win the election, if you can, then conquer the power. I know there is already tension now, because others will now oppose what is so violently and against the law you take power. Please, listen, maybe you'll learn something. You should always listen from a smart man. He says: "The Constitutional Court, within its Constitution of certain competences, makes decisions, including those which do not meet the criteria under which the draft law lays down acts on which the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is placed. "What are acts that do not meet the criteria and come out of the Constitutional Court? What are these lower acts that the Constitutional Court makes without meriting the state seal on them? I'm just curious if you could explain it to me. Maybe I'm ignorant of using that national seal, in the importance of the state seal, so teach me what is the act that the Constitutional Court issues, and it doesn't need to bear the seal. "The bill stipulates that the law can lay down another act on which the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is placed. "So, it is not the act on which it is placed, and the other on which it is not put, but said -- the bill provides that the law can be established. You're setting something up in advance here. Perhaps the Constitutional Court will pass some act on which the seal of the Serbian state should not stand. Whose Constitutional Court is this? Is that the highest court case? Is there a larger court case than the Constitutional Court, and why would that third branch of government be left without a state seal, or a stamp that has the highest value? Because maybe one of you doesn't understand that it is the third branch of government or because you wanted it, because the Constitutional Court may have to make some decision that won't be at the will of the government. Besides, we don't have a Constitutional Court for more than two years, because if we had a Constitutional Court, it would have to have a seal. Let me ask you, what seal on the Constitutional Court Act will come if this state seal doesn't come, which seal will the Constitutional Court place? "The bill stipulates that the law can also lay down other acts on which the state seal is placed, allowing the specific law to precisely regulate the decisions of the Constitutional Court to be placed on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. "So you already admit that there will be decisions on which to place a state seal. Then why isn't the state seal done in four copies? Where will the President of the Constitutional Court, with acts under the mouse, run - to the government, to the Assembly, to the President of the State? Where's he gonna run to get this stamped? You're just incredibly involved, ladies and gentlemen, in the house. If the "Minister Against Local Self-Government" were here, I would suggest that this amendment be adopted. I respect the lady, but she's only here to listen to what the MPs have to say, she can neither go out for a pay phone to explain why the amendment is not adopted, nor can anything but attribute and say "Minister v. Local Self-Government" what the MPs were saying. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting amendments from MP Slavko Jerkovic, we are allowing the opposition's MPs, which this ignorant government did not realize, which it missed, to finally get that fourth seal. We also help the ruling structure to get out of this; not only do they enter, but they bring in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9093	Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SRS has proposed, that is, our colleague Milorad Buha, amendment to Article 6, because it is impossible for the motionor to have imagined such a Article 6. The proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, because institutions in our society should be stable, laws should be made, in the opinion of us Serbian radicals, if it is a good law, which is not, for future generations, for people who will use it as it is written and how it is consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We never wanted to associate with an individual any work we did in the authorities of the state, when we were in power in the authorities of local self-government, because we do not do so in political or party life, our party bodies. I know the name and the name of the man who himself, as some incoherent organ, will do whatever he wants and behave as he wills. It's not a good practice, and I believe that it's nowhere in any country on a globe of Earth, and if it does exist, then it's not well-organized countries and systems. As a result, Mr Buha suggested that this member be changed, in the sense that the authorised state authorities would be the ones to take care of the construction, preservation and use and registration of the state seal, and not to be the holders of functions in those authorities. Namely, Article 6 of the proposed law provides that the secretary of the National Assembly, in this case and today, is Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, and this is Branko Radjujko, Secretary General of the Government Dejan Mihajlov, submits a joint request for the construction of the state seal. Paragraph 2 states: "The person of the Article 1 position", and these are now the individuals that I have listed, who perform these functions, but that is variable, "save the state seal, are responsible for its use and are obliged to provide records of the use of the national seal containing data on the date of use of the national seal, as well as the name and number of acts on which the national seal is placed. "This is really unacceptable. It can't be these people, or officials in these state bodies, because it just has to be that state organ. Imagine now the situation that, for any reason, because of the official trip, the absence of vacation and other reasons, Mrs Stojcevic is absent from the National Assembly. Mr. Marco, who used to be a secretary, is her deputy. Who's gonna take care of the use, keeping and keeping records? Are you telling this law that until she returns, no one is allowed to seal the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? He stayed at Tamara's, locked in a drawer. Dulic has to stamp his decision, obviously to call presidential elections, because it's Boris Tadic's private election and his, and he says, "Give me a stamp, I have to verify it, and where Tamara is, she's gone, the women went on the official trip, went abroad or anywhere." Dejan Mihajlov is due to stamp the government of the Republic of Serbia to Kostunica to sign the bill, or Vice President Bozidar Djelic. There's no Dejan Mihajlov, he's gone to work, he's got a hearing with Beba Popovic, who knows where he is, he's gone, the seal's locked, and no one can put a seal on him. Is that normal for you? Of course not. Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic, should suggest that, as his constitutional obligation, he declared the law or the promotion of an incompetent person such as this Ponoš, the disgrace for officers and the military, in some higher rank, seeking the seal, went somewhere Branko Radajko. What's he gonna do? Nothing. They're waiting for him to come back. Now I guess you're seeing these examples, and you're probably going to have some other argument, that it's completely pointless. For us, this is the only normal solution, because these are the people who are appointed to those functions, but who have their deputies. When you commit an institution, or a state body, it must take care of it. There's nothing here, anything to happen with this, no personal responsibility; of course, it exists legally, but it's probably a state institution, or an institution that has to take care of it. That's your bad practice you passed from the law, so you say the minister will do this with a sublegal act, the minister will do it. No, we're constantly correcting you, and that's why our intensities are here: the ministry is in charge of, and now that's in question. It's the only normal state where nothing depends on one man. I've listed some examples and hypothetically anything can happen, don't give God something bad, some reasonable reasons, and now you can't bring a state body into a situation where someone doesn't have it. You can say that the special decision by that state authority or by regulating relations in that state authority determines what the deputy is doing, what someone else is doing replacing the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, the Secretary-General of the President and the Secretary-General of the Government. Now that you know all of this, there's a possibility that this could happen and if it's in a decision about what the secretary is doing, and what his deputy, who's got powers, who's transferring the secretary to him, then why are we playing with it? Then we say nicely that these bodies, then the National Assembly, the President, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court, are applying together for a national seal. You can see that we and in this amendment are putting a special emphasis on the Constitutional Court. We think that the Constitutional Court, as the highest court instance, is not the place in this next law that comes to the agenda -- state and other bodies, but here, where the use of the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is concerned. I don't think they were right (but, at 14 o'clock, it was time for discussion) for colleagues and colleagues to defend themselves by arguing that the Constitutional Court was making, as they said, non-essential decisions, so that the Constitutional Court should place a state seal. No, Articles 166 and 167. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has clearly listed what decisions it makes, in which disputes are settled by the Constitutional Court, and that is not something like that. Excuse me, please, in a dispute conducted by an authority or organisation or when it comes to the annulment of decisions by local self-government, autonomous province, any other state authority, or in violation of human minority rights and freedoms, it is not an insignificant decision of the Constitutional Court so that you may say that these are some decisions which are irrelevant and should not be the seal of the Constitutional Court. There's especially interesting, you see, how you have double arches in this law. You should have said or agreed by these officials to arrange for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, those who make laws for them, to act as if under the matrix. Don't be different. If he's a DSS minister, he's got his own vision, if he's a DS minister, he'll do what he wants. It also has something to do with the fact that you've made it clear here... What you were not consistent with until the end, so as to say in previous laws, the appearance of the seal, or what will stand on the national seal, will be prescribed by the minister, as you did in earlier laws, by a special act. Then why didn't we arrange the appearance of the passport and you didn't accept the amendment of your colleague Nemanje Sarovic on the draft travel documents bill, as many as 15 or 20 days ago? He made it clear what the passport, which is sized, dark blue with the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, looks like in Serbian, French and English, should look like the other side of the passport. We suggested that it be a map of Kosovo and Metohija. Now, to the smallest detail, you're editing what the state seal should look like. It's okay. But then it wasn't right that you were so careless about that part of the job that the minister was supposed to do, when it comes to the Law on travel documents. Be consistent once and make laws so they don't have to make the following ministers... We will indeed, I repeat, this morning I was talking about it, we will have to react very quickly after taking over power in Serbia and many laws to put out of force, but in this vacuum, right to tell you, we do not want, because of this now and we are responding, that tomorrow the ministers of the SRS and our prime minister find themselves in a situation that because of the fact that we need some time we need to work under these laws. But we'll have to, because it's obvious that until that time, until we change them, you won't listen to us. Therefore, individuals are not at all important. They are someone who has been elected to the Authority of State Authorities and that authority should take care of sealing, use and record keeping. Accept this amendment to fellow Milorad Buha. I'll tell you what his additional motive was to write this. You know that he is the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, who was occupied by the Ustasha government, in exile. Imagine now that he's not acting like this and he's not in a situation to gather... You forgot that, we, I must remind you, in Strasbourg, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, came out with a declaration that we have offered to all colleagues from our parliamentary delegation to condemn crimes against the Serb people and to protect the right to defend in the future by all diplomatic means the Republic of Serbia. You want to deny the fact that Mr. Buha was the legitimate and legally elected Prime Minister in the Western Serb republic who had her president, her government and her parliament, is that right, all executive authorities. Now imagine that it happened that he couldn't, because, unfortunately, many of his colleagues from the government can't gather, and that someone has a seal or what is a record or what is living proof of the existence of that Serb republic that is now under occupation; no, it's something that he and his colleagues who are, unfortunately, banished, as well as half a million of our countrymen, from their centuries-old hearths, but they have the deed to it, as well as every Serb and every individual, but they can't go back to the feet of the Ustashas in order not to survive the horrors. Because anyone who does this unfortunately has the same fate as the Serbs in 1941 or Serbs from 1991 to 1995. Think about the fact that laws are not made once today, just for this time, for one power, but that at all times the state authorities can, in 10, 20, 50 years, as you are calling here in the making of this law for the earlier tradition of Serbia, to call upon this law and to use it, because it was built in the long term and for a time to testify about the people who were in power and the way they exercised it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9095	I thank you, the word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Let MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9096	I called about the amendment. In this amendment, it is said that, apart from the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, a request for a state seal is submitted. It is already said that the Constitutional Court does not have to make just decisions that must have a state seal. If I understood my predecessor correctly, or the applicant of this amendment, he or she, I don't know now, Mrs Jovanovic has explained it, and Mr Buha is the applicant of the amendment, if I understand it correctly, they have asked that the state seal be placed on the Constitutional Court's decision if it decides on a constitutional appeal, if it decides on a collective contract or even a ban on the political party. That's just impossible. That is one reason why this amendment should be rejected. The second reason why this amendment should be rejected is because it insists on collective responsibility. Keeping, making and using the state seal is an extremely important thing. Therefore, it is necessary to apply and ensure the personal responsibility of the secretary, of course the secretary of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government, in order to remove any doubt of responsibility if, for example, the seal is lost. This is another classic example why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9097	He has a replica of National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go. Just tell me, is your discussion of the Rules of Procedure related to this? You'll get your word back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9098	I'm replicating my colleague Radovic, because I'm not her, I'm not her or that, but I have my own name, and you're not blind, you're not blind, you're not looking anywhere left or right, you're looking at me. So, don't pretend to be ignorant and play Kostunica when you're not, he's always so uninformed. I followed the pay phone, and I said, "Buh's colleague, Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina at the refugee office, the applicant of this amendment (I gave a very clear argument for 14 minutes of speech), is not there, so I went out. As you went out and it's your right, and maybe one of your colleagues will... I don't know why it's so controversial and why you needed this senseless persuasion, but I don't think you're right, or I'm sure of it, because political legitimacy in one country doesn't have a single person who's appointed to a function at all. We can talk about the political legitimacy of the elected person in the direct elections, or if elected by the MPs, as elected by the Secretary-General, but he cannot at all times respond, nor could the current deputy, and the former secretary, nor now Mrs Tamara, for the situation where the use of the seal is needed or when she is physically unable to submit a request. As for the Constitutional Court's decisions and sealing the Constitutional Court's decisions, I think we're in the afternoon debate, but if you want, we can continue, so much we've absorbed that it's pointless to talk more about it. We can only open a discussion now on why until today, October 26th, and last year, at Mitrovica, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was declared, we do not have a Constitutional Court. We do not have because the government is irresponsible, because you have a second one, a shortcut to work, but to choose those institutions and to do a job under the Constitutional Law, but it is already a problem for citizens to punish you in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9099	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras and then MP Milojub Albianic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9100	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister... Mr. President, it's about the question you asked me while I was sitting in my seat; I don't know where you find the source for that, because you asked if my report to the Rules of Procedure was in line with the discussion. So when you show which member it is, I'll be very pleased to learn something from you at last. Secondly, several members have been violated in this way. Article 100 has also been broken, meaning that an MP who reports in accordance with the infringement of the Rules of Procedure or in accordance with the rights and obligations of the Rules of Procedure shall receive a championship in relation to those Members who have not made themselves known or have not received a word in that way. I answered because this is a rare opportunity where I can ask you a question. I need an explanation from you and a notice. So, a few days ago, you bid, or announced the possibility of a December 9th presidential election. Yesterday we heard from the president of the state that he does not know, or that he is still thinking; the Prime Minister, or those who spoke on his behalf, said they would most likely boycott those elections. I have to ask you, both as an MP and as a citizen of this country, how is it that all MPs in this room, including you, and all citizens of this country know when the election for president in the United States, know when the election is for the president of Russia, we only don't know when the election is for our president. You've brought the Constitution, two days have been voted upon, you've imposed every possible public figure in the videos of a few minutes propagating the adoption of the Constitution. As I see it lately, this constitution is very often broken, the constitutional law is very often broken, and here it tries, I'm not, of course, talking about you, one party from the ruling coalition, or one party from the government that scares the citizens of the elections. I think it's something that's totally inadmissible. The party of the prime minister of Kostunica cannot intimidate citizens with the elections and constantly find Kosovo as an excuse. We have heard from those who have been in power for 20 years, especially that patriotic part that has been shouting - Kosovo, Kosovo, but it is completely unclear to me why they say Kosovo, and they mean the boards of directors. Don't scare the citizens of the election, the election is an opportunity and a chance for some new policy, maybe an old one, but for some new policy. Please, Mr. President, to clarify this to us, we live in this country, as all citizens want to know if there will be a choice, when there will be a choice and who will participate in it. That's not what you're gonna tell us, of course, but please help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9101	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, section of the National Assembly, section 240. So, Mr. President, this is about the next one. Very often, i.e. Every day, all of us MPs here in the Assembly are also meeting with people who prepare suitable materials for us, who prepare sessions, working during the session, working after the session of the National Assembly. It's about their rights, human rights, it's a real compensation for work. So these people stay behind after working hours at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and do certain jobs. These people have the right to receive adequate compensation for overtime. I believe all MPs will agree with that here in the Assembly. It is also a stenographer, and it is also the people who work in the committees of the National Assembly, in all congregation services, and have the right to receive adequate compensation. As things stand now, they get hours and hours off, but they can't take advantage of those days off because they have to work. It is not fair, it is not correct, and I ask you, Mr. President, of the congregation service, of the Secretary of the Assembly and of you, that this matter be resolved in a fair and just manner for the congregation services, which means that after three months, as it has been possible by law, compensation is paid for their work. I really appreciate it. I won't be long anymore. This has nothing to do with politics and political talk, but it has to do with the people who work here. It is easy for us, we can talk about the efficiency, ineffectiveness of the work of the Assembly, but these people work all the time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. I apologize to everyone for taking the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9103	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9104	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, the draft law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia states in Article 6: "The Secretary of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government have submitted a joint request for the construction of the state seal. "To this member of the Law on the State Seal, our fellow Member, Milorad Buha, has submitted an amendment to amend and read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia submit a joint request for the construction of the state seal. "It also states in its amendment that the authorities of Article 1 are obliged to keep the seal, keep the records, and other things listed in the above amendment. My MP group, the DSS parliamentary group, thinks this amendment should not be accepted for the following reasons. One of these reasons is that it is contained in the position of the 1st proposed amendment, where the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is introduced into the whole matter related to the state seal law. You heard the explanation of my fellow DSS MPs why all acts brought by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia should not be hit by state seals. There are a few reasons why that is. The first and basic reason is for the state seal to hit on those documents that are of paramount importance to the state of Serbia. Surely, the Constitutional Court is the most important state institution that exists in Serbia, and it is certain that some documents of the Constitutional Court should bear these seals. So it's a special law, and you've seen for sure that the bill on the Constitutional Court is also in the procedure... I'm sure you'll have the opportunity and the amendment to act on this Constitutional Court bill for a number of reasons. The Constitutional Court adopts a number of acts, but only let them have a character of special national importance to which a state seal should be placed. The state seal can't be hit on any document. A colleague, Markovic, is why there are stamps from other state authorities that are hitting on other acts. There's no need for this most significant state seal. Also, these government seals are being placed on those documents that have a protocol form, and we've agreed in previous discussions, so I don't think there's any big problems here. The position of the 2nd amendment submitted by Milorad Buh is related to the fact that the authorities of Article 1 of this Article are obliged to keep the state seal, and are responsible for its use and for the records. There is a need for personal responsibility to these persons who hold this state seal and who are in charge. Applying collective responsibility certainly isn't good. Just imagine the situation of something happening with such a state seal; when there is a collective responsibility we can never determine who is in charge of keeping it. The other thing I wanted to say is about you, colleague Markovic. In your previous presentation, you said a few things. First of all, you mentioned the name of "the ministry against local self-government". I thought, colleague Markovic, you were a professional lawyer. The ministry law has been passed and there are ministry names, I've never heard of "the ministry against local self-government" and I don't know that it exists. If you think it exists, I'd like you to explain to me what this is all about. As a lawyer, I think you should know what the Ministry Act is and I don't think that's the topic we need to talk about today. The second thing you were talking about in your previous presentation, 15 minutes ago, is about a public seal guard. You were talking about him. Surely you know that in the bright Serbian tradition, in the tradition of the Serbian state's legal system since Nemnjević, there has been an institution of the guardian of the state seal. I wouldn't want this way to diminish the importance of this institution, and I couldn't conclude from your presentation that you spoke in a commendable way about this institution. I don't think that's the point of talking about her right now. At the end of my presentation, I would like to say that DSS MPs will not vote in favour of this amendment. This amendment may have seats elsewhere, i.e. when it comes to other laws, so I call on all fellow Members of the People to vote against this amendment in the day of voting, and to those topics that do not belong here, we do not hold the attention of MPs and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9105	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras called, please. There are replicas and exhibitions that are related to this amendment, and there are reports in the Rules of Procedure that are probably not related to this amendment, but are related to the exposure of Milosevic Albianic, so we're going to combine it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I really apologize for taking the opportunity to report for Mr. Albianic's exposure, but I think the least I can do is take advantage of, incorrectly, one service, one institution in this country to apostrophe, or situation that is happening, or the inability to pay compensation for the overtime, or the inability to use the days off. I must say that I used to work at the Tax Administration, at a time when the minister was Mladjan Dinkic, and I remember well that then 6,000 employees also had a problem every time tax returns were received, whether these were individual tax returns, whether they were invoices, or handing over tax returns to VAT, etc.; so people were working overtime. I suppose that many institutions, i.e. employees in them, work overtime and, unlike Mr Albianic, I would argue that this is respected in every institution, not just in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I certainly respect people who work here overtime, but we have to take care of everyone. I just want to say one more thing to my colleagues at the DSS. I really respect your dedication to some of the bill's proposals so often. The citizens are certainly the witnesses that you are the most active in the matter of the state seal law or of our cooperation and our support for Cuba. I don't think that's very serious. We had a lot of important laws here when we couldn't hear you. All of this looks like a love fight inside a love triangle, where one has been cheated, all three know it, then we get into a situation where one of those three is acting after this pay phone as if everything's okay, citizens are like kids, and then come on over these kids, or citizens, to act like everything's okay and to talk about the state seal. We have much more important topics to discuss, and we still expect an answer to the question when will the citizens of this country and MPs know when the election will be for the president. We know when he'll be in the U.S., we know when he'll be in Russia, but we don't know when he'll be in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9107	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, then MP Vladan Batic, and I hope that we will then move on to the debate on amendments, MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I hope you will never again call on the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and hope to continue the debate on the agenda. I'm very sorry, Mr. President, you weren't yesterday, I understand that you have and the obligations required of you not to be present at certain meetings of the Serbian Parliament, but nothing surprising about the Serbian Parliament, we have come to some of the problems, we have moved towards the Rules of Procedure, and normally we have asked for the exit in some sort of agreement between the heads of parliament clubs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, during the talks, we have tried in some way to point out that MPs are not the ones responsible for the events in the Republika Srpska Assembly, not only in the Serbian Parliament, but also in the state, that there is a responsibility of the ruling coalition, above all I mean the Government of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, so that they have to find a way to agree between themselves, in terms of happening in Serbia, the answers we have to give to citizens, in order to greatly contribute to the work of the Serbian Parliament in a way that would allow the agenda points to be done in a shorter period of time and that this ends in a mutually satisfying manner. We respected that agreement, we said yesterday that we would avoid it, although we don't think we were guilty of the situation we were in, but we said that we would continue to work in accordance with the agenda. Although the minister wasn't there the whole time, which doesn't matter, we kept working on the agenda. We didn't report to the Rules of Procedure once yesterday, and we may have used the tenth part of the work on the agenda for the rest of the time, there were reports by the Rules of Procedure. Today, or a few moments ago, your vice president, your coalition partner, comes out to warn you of some of the things the Assembly should possibly do when it comes to certain services. I don't want to discuss it at all whether it's necessary or not. As a man, I can say I should, but please, as long as you think you're driving us crazy. What does that look like? You in the coalition sit at the same table, the presidency, and one of the vice presidents comes out and calls you what should be done, according to the Rules of Procedure, completely out of the agenda. I'm sorry, let me finish. That is why I warn you that you are giving your actions the legitimacy of the Serbian Radical Party to act in a way that it thinks is politically appropriate to it. Please, next time you hope that the discussion will run in accordance with the agenda, always remember this, remember your responsibility, because your responsibility as ruling parties comes first. You must take care of this and never invite us again to keep the session in line with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9109	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9110	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Mr. President, please explain when a set of judicial laws will be found on the agenda, because according to the Constitutional Law it is intended to be by the end of the year. Will that deadline be respected? We need a credible judiciary, given the situation we're in today. Serbia still does not have a state prosecutor. She had a pensioner as a prosecutor for two years, now she has an employee of her duties. Why do I even say that? Because, as the public knows, a report came in yesterday from the FBI on the death of guards in Topcider. I remind you that 49 soldiers have been killed in the last three years and each time the same explanation is suicide. More soldiers died here in peace than in some wars. Someone's got to be responsible for that. The FBI report isn't like ours, because according to Anglo-Saxon law, it's different. There's no answer on the matter of judicial-medical skill. What has been confirmed is the essence, the report by the independent state commission ballistics confirms that the guard Jakovljevic and Milovanovic did not kill themselves, nor did any of them commit suicide. So they were killed. On behalf of their families, I ask the president and prime minister to answer who killed their children. I ask Mr Boris Tadic, who at the time of the work of an independent state commission and then the Supreme Defence Council in late 2004, said that because of the state secret he cannot say everything he knows about the Topcider case... No one must hide behind a state secret. It's a state-of-the-art shame and a state-of-the-art disgrace, it's a state-of-the-art crime. I urge the president to make that known. Mr. President, I ask you again, and I ask you to give an explanation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether, when, under what law in Serbia will be held and what elections. Why? Because in a civilized world, you know when football derbys are games, when it's film festivals, music festivals, let alone when it's presidential elections. We can't speculate here when it will be and that the public and parliament are practically just dealing with it. All of this is in the shadow of that expectation. We can't wait to hear from you when the election's gonna be held. The way we read the papers, it's coming to you. (President:Thank you, Mr. Batic. ( ) Go ahead, answer if you will follow the law, when and by what regulations the elections will be held. This is not a country of matches, its citizens and MPs must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9111	Mr. Batic, thank you very much, I understand the question. You asked two questions. One is about judicial laws, the issue will be forwarded to the Ministry of Justice, since these laws are not yet in the assembly procedure. When they are in the congregation procedure, they will meet before the MPs, and we will have opportunities to discuss it. As far as election issues are concerned, the issue is problematicd in the media. On my part, I will strictly respect the constitutional law provisions that have defined the deadlines. I've never been involved in any discussion about a possible date before. I won't do it in the future either, and of course you'll be informed on time. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of the National MP Nedimovic. Then comes the replica, the People's MP... The basis is that you're mentioned personally. Then the People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9112	First of all, to counterpart Nedimovic, the state seal is not struck, but placed. No hitting, no sealing on everything prescribed. As for the Constitutional Court, do not lead the citizens and other MPs astray. This morning, a colleague of Martinovic explained it to us, and now I'm going to tell you. Articles 167 and 168. The Constitution, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, when and in what cases the Constitutional Court decides: "The Constitutional Court shall decide on: 1) the consent of the laws and other general acts with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and the approved international contracts. "Please don't count on me this time, as I quote the members of the Constitution. "2) the consent of the approved international agreements with the Constitution, 3) the consent of other general acts with the law, 4) the consent of the statutes and general acts of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with the Constitution and the law. "We have cases that many statutes of local self-government, such as the statute of the town of Kragujevac, are not in agreement with the Constitution. There's no constitutional court to decide, so what do we do? "5) the consent of general acts of organisations entrusted with public authority, political parties, trade unions, associations of citizens and collective agreements with the Constitution and the law. "When solving the Constitutional Court, everything is listed from point 1) to point 6) and now you have called and you say - where did this idea, colleagues Martinovic and others come from, ask that the Constitutional Court use the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, when, in a second position, it decides to ban the work of the political party, union organisation or association of citizens? That's what one of your colleagues used as an argument. I remember very well what happened an hour ago, and an hour and a half ago and this morning morning. We're just quoting what the Constitution says. You know that we were never a party that... Unlike some of you who have advocated banning the SRS, especially during the "Sabbe" action and after that. Some do not stop these abnormal demands, etc. We've always protected the possibility of everyone working in the state in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So as far as this second part is concerned, it's the wrong and the wrong argument, there's no collective responsibility. No, that's why I told you nicely, it doesn't stand to reason that because we can't introduce collective responsibility... First of all, we're not the Hague theater that we're making up something that doesn't exist. On the other hand, it says nicely, on the case of the Secretary of the National Assembly, I will explain to you, since I do not have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government and how the work is arranged across the street from the President of the Republic and on what act Branko Radajko is working on, as Secretary General of President Boris Tadic. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it stands well and is specified who has the responsibility. The Rules of Procedure clearly pointed out, and that's what I was talking about when I explained to my colleague Buhe's amendment, that the secretary had his deputy. What does the deputy secretary, or Mr. Marko Danilovic, do? He, as well as the secretary, is responsible to the National Assembly. So he is responsible to the National Assembly for where the seal is and on which act is placed, when used, and where it is in traffic. There's no collective responsibility here. You see what it says, the rules of procedure of that state authority has arranged what these persons, which you have mislisted in the law, instead of these state authorities, should do. So in the event of Mrs Stojcevic's absence, Mr Danilovic will know how to use the state seal. He will not do so on his own, but in accordance with the powers that arise from his Rules of Procedure. He is responsible for the National Assembly, such as Dejan Mihajlov and Branko Radajko, responsible for their part of the work they do; they have their deputies and cannot lock the seal so that they are not there until they return from their official journey or from their vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9113	Replica, MP Momir Markovic, then MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of explaining to Mr Nedimovic this first part, which was so plastically explained to him by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, but I will only look back at two questions he called me for. He says: "Are you afraid of the guardian of the state seal?" I'm afraid since you've been in power, everything. Everything you've been keeping, it's all gone. To remind you that you have kept the property of the Serbian state, the property is no longer available, everything has been sold out in "burazer's privatisation". You've kept the institutions, the institution's almost gone. You are guarding the state of Serbia, the question is whether, when and how you will attack Kosovo and Metohija, not military, but political, as they do. You keep the health of the citizens, the nation getting sicker. That's why I'm afraid. I am not afraid of the guardians of the state seal, especially not Serbian traditions, because my party and I are also known as the guardians of Serbian traditions from the beginning to today. Let me remind you of the "Minister Against Local Self-Government" thing. As long as the minister behaves like this, he will be "minister against local self-government". "Minister v. Local Self-Government", based on his opinion, which he did not put on, or as you would say -- struck the seal, which arrived in Rumu, this morning sent two special buses in full military equipment to drive out of the Romanian municipality, from the town hall of those who received power from Serbian citizens in the elections, to allow their "yellow" companies to take their positions. And there they were looking for the seal this morning, to remind you, Mr. Nedimovic. The main problem was to hijack the municipal seal. What would they hit him with if they took him, I don't know, but I know they didn't find him. To remind you that the "Minister vs. Local Self-Government" was silent when his "yellow company" bought councilmen in Old Paz, to bring down the number of councilors and put in temporary measures, so that the "yellow" companies would be reunited. I'm sorry, I'm done. It offered 10,000 euros to other political parties' committees to resign. Let me remind you that in 11 municipalities we have temporary measures and, behold, miracles everywhere in the power of yellow, possibly with you in the coalition for a year and a few days. Never mind. Why don't you go to the election? You're afraid of choices. That's what I said, Mr. Nedimovic. It's a great honor for the public seals at the time, but I don't believe in your guards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9115	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9116	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I first advertise the Rules of Procedure, a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It's been a while, but I'd like to refer to the discussion of our esteemed Vice President, Milorad Albianic. I don't know how you've had his discussion, but I can tell she's made me a little angry. I don't know what he was going to tell us. So every MP knows how many people who work in the congregation, besides the MPs, do a lot of work; if it weren't for them, it would be very difficult for this home to function. So, a lot of stenographers, dactylographs, secretaries, I'd also like to mention people who work at a restaurant. It's true, while we work here and they work. I didn't know, I didn't know until he told us that these people weren't properly rewarded. I think every MP has an understanding, but we don't understand how to talk about it in public about it this way at a congregation pay phone. I don't think those people liked it either, if they heard, and I don't know what he was asking us to do. In the end, he got a round of applause, but he could have known it before he got out, so we could support any such proposal. However, it is not a matter of the MPs of the people, but of the leadership of this assembly, that they agree on how this issue will be resolved. Secondly, I consider his discussion as the beginning of some pre-election campaign. I personally don't see that G17 plus that discussion of his has any plus. However, I may be able to see it as his personal campaign and his personal promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9117	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the PEC OF State AND OTHER ORGANIS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, together Laslo Varga and Balint Pastor, Jadranko Vuković, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović and Dejan Mirović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give the word to the messenger of the people, Peter Jojic, the word of the messenger of the people is Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9118	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, for the presentation of Mr Albianic, Vice-President of the Assembly. Interestingly, he mentioned and opened a discussion about what the Serbian Radical Party was trying to correct when the Labour Law was passed. The Labour Act doesn't say that only an internal rule can be given an hour in an hour. If you pay the hour, he's an hour and 50, if you give the day off, he's an hour out. So, not only are they damaged in many cases by workers, but they are also damaged when giving the days off. No matter what he tried to correct some mistake, the Serbian radicals warned about it, but here you are, two or three years later coming to what, I wasn't a national MP back then, but I followed, there's no possibility of someone losing half an hour. If it's overtime, it's 150 percent; if it's day off, in an hour it's an hour. So, on any basis, the worker is damaged, and not just in the National Assembly, but damaged in all areas of society where the worker works. Look at the internal rules, look at their conclusions, the worker is damaged. So, let's go back to correcting the Labour Act and that there is no such possibility at all, but if the worker works for an hour, pay him for that hour and 50, as foreseen by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9119	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, according to the amendment. Before MP Petar Jojic arrives, I thank you, Mr Kovacevic, for that comment. That is also my response to the discussion of MP Albianic. Simply, the congregation cannot arrange for its decisions something that is legal matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9120	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 7. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed norms that the Republic of Serbia has its coat of arms, flag and anthem. The coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia is used as a large coat of arms and as a small coat of arms. In paragraphs 3 and 4, the flag of the Republic of Serbia exists and is used as a national flag and as a national flag. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law in Article 1 on the seal of state and other bodies is prescribed, as the first norm, in paragraph 1: "This law regulates the purposes, contents, appearance and use of seals used by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the authorities of the State Administration, the Civilian Protection Officer, the Army of Serbia, courts, public prosecutors, the Constitutional Court, the Republic of Public Tribunal, the Service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Service of the Authority whose members are the National Assembly, the bodies of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government (hereinafter: state and other bodies), as well as the seals used by public agencies, public undertakings, institutions, organisations and individuals when they perform certain public powers entrusted with them (hereinafter: public authorities). The content, appearance and use of the units' stamps and institutions of the Serbian Army is determined by the defence minister. "Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2) and suggested that the same change be made. "The content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army are governed by the law on the Serbian Army. "In the light of the amendments, we drew attention to the MPs that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army is regulated by law, rather than by the sublaw of the defence minister. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Constitution in Article 7 norms that the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is governed by law, then it cannot be given to any minister or minister of military, the right to regulate the appearance, the form of the Serbian Army's seal and the units in Serbia's military. What's it gonna be? I suppose the appearance of the future seal, if you don't adopt this amendment, will be similar to that of Ohio, the Guard, which is actually civil protection and firefighters. This is what the military minister, Mr Tadic, has been presenting to us over the past few years in the Republic of Serbia; he is promoting that guard from Ohio. Will we have the form, appearance and size of the military seal just as the minister wishes? What happens if the minister changes and says he does not recognise this seal -- I was given the right as a minister to now regulate the shape, appearance and size of the ministry's seal, as well as the unit of the Serbian Army by means of a sublaw. If the constitution is the highest legal act, the law should regulate the provisions on the appearance and size of the Serbian Army and the units of the Serbian Army, which means that Serbia's Army Minister cannot have the authority to take the constitutional category into his own hands by means of one of his instructions, instructions, regulations or regulations. The constitutional category and constitutional principle can only be regulated, ladies and gentlemen, by law. It is beautiful in Article 7. normised – appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem is regulated by law. If, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of norms, then you gentlemen who propose such a law do not have constitutional authority. The constitution is a dam to prevent tomorrow's abuses of those who would be contrary to the Constitution, especially if the minister's shift occurs; the party in power will have its military minister and the military minister, while in power, will make certain instructions and certain sublaws; the next will come, he will change them and adapt them according to some of their will. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal is against the constitution, because it is proposed that the military minister has the right to establish, by its sublaw, the shape and size of the seal of the military, both the ministries and the units. It's the Constitution of norms, and you mustn't step on the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the governing structure, if you stand by this proposal, you directly violate the provisions of Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Read, ladies and gentlemen, you will make sure that this absolutely cannot be in accordance with the Constitution. I'd like to ask the president of the National Assembly. I recently asked a parliamentary question, I didn't get an answer. Whose pharmaceutical company, which, whether one, two or three produced and imported fake tetanus vaccines, gave a large number of citizens in the Republic of Serbia instead of a real tetanus vaccine. Who gave the license to that importer? Is the agency's owner at large? Is he at large the owner of the company and the company that did this? Any idea who the importer is? Has the Ministry of Health informed the medical agencies on the international level? So, world agencies dealing with drug production must be informed about this case and this crime. Secondly, has periodic control of these drugs been performed, who did, when and where? Is there a criminal case against the owners of these agencies and the owners of those companies? There is still no answer, and the matter is urgent, has priority because of the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9121	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. I fully agree that this is an urgent matter and I will make sure that the answer comes as soon as possible. The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with Mr. Jojic to be in Article 7. The Constitution defines this question. What's more, in Article 7. The constitution is not mentioned at all. Allow me, I'll tell you what I have, for another reason. So we'll think again about this amendment that you've submitted, there's no dilemma. I really don't think you're right when you talk about constitutionality, I say responsibly, because this law has passed the appropriate statutes, the Rules of Procedure provided, in the Government and no one has objected, no one has put any doubt about the constitutionality issue. I think you agree that this law cannot be arranged, I'm glad we understand it, the seals of units and institutions, but the seal of the Ministry of Defense you mentioned, it has nothing to do with the minister. We say, you know, the post office and that post office; that's something the army needs to arrange. You're suggesting we settle this with the Army Act. We've made a proposal here to arrange it by the Secretary of Defense, given the character of these seals. I promise you that we will seriously consider this amendment, but not from the position of constitutionality, I simply cannot accept that it is unconstitutional, but it might be a good thing that the Military Law does the basic elements of that seal for units and institutions. So, the Ministry's seal itself is normally regulated by law and there's no dilemma about it, it's about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9123	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9124	Ladies and gentlemen, if the bill says it will allow the minister's right to decide by sublegal act on the size and design of the seals, it is discrimination against the other ministries. Now can the MUP say - hey, I want to have a stamp, the interior minister to say - please give me the right to regulate the seal of the MUP with a sublegal act. We don't understand each other. You claim one thing and I claim the other. I'm right as much as I think this matter has to be regulated by law, and in no case is allowed to regulate by sublaw. Here we are at approximately different levels of interpretation of a certain standard. If it is said to be a sublegal act and to give authority to a minister, and in fact it should be regulated by law rather than by a sublegal act, then you will agree with me that this amendment is in place and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9125	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly, has the word, and the People's Messenger, Djordje Mamula, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9126	Mr Markovic, this is not about the objection of counterpart Jojic that it is against the constitution, but he said that this law that you are proposing is not in line with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know that we have yet to pass a law on the Serbian Army? Article 141 of Article 2 says, "The Serbian Army is governed by law." We don't have that law. He told the Sutanovac he had him somewhere in some preparation, went through a public debate, hooked him up to the site. Where is the congregation procedure, was it a greater obligation of the National Assembly to pass that law? I have no idea what that law looks like. He didn't come to the defense and security committee. Or you're just about to pass it on the next few days, as my colleague Vukovic told me, since it's been a long time, all deadlines have expired. You see how consistent we are and how we respect the Constitution. I have to remind you of the fact that earlier -- here, we talked about it, when they were also the Secretary of the Government, the Secretary of Parliament, the Secretary of the President of the Republic, and all the previous laws -- we always wrote amendments, we Serbian radicals, when you gave the ministers the authority to prescribe forms, the finance minister, the minister of the interior what would look like a passport, what would stand in it, just before these secretaries for the previous law. I must remind you that when it comes to the President of the Republic, therefore, the one directly elected, had it not been for Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because he knew that he would be the next President of the Republic, as all citizens of Serbia know, that is so normal, would remain this member of the Constitution that regulates what the President of the Republic is doing. He says, "The President of the Republic", and this is now what Mr Tomislav Nikolic added with his own hand, "in accordance with the law, commands the Army, and sets up, improves and relieves Serbian Army officers. "Is that right, Mr. Nikolic? Yes, it is. And you now give the right to one Dragan Sutanovac, or anyone, to a NATO minister who is for Euro-Atlantic integration, that he edits what the seal will look like. And, don't replace the thesis, Jojic wrote nicely in the amendment: "The content, appearance and use of the unit seals and the Serbian Army institutions are governed by Serbia's Military Law. "Maybe he wants to place a NATO pact sign on the Serbian Army's seal. Does he want the military to be abolished and we're going to the NATO Pact before he even heard the opinion of the Serbian citizens? He can put on a pipe of peace. Here, 15-20 days ago, and that's the only action Sutanovac had, was on the Old Mountain in the survival process in nature. He ate snails there, frogs, I don't know what he was doing, put on a frog, a snail, now I really have to banalize... But, Mr. Markovic, the Army law is the first time... And let's see what this Sutanov's law looks like, his NATO proposal, we'll have a number of amendments, make sure of that, because nothing good for the military has done, as soon as he allows, as well as Boris Tadic, to be the Chief of Staff, so that those spies are there and the leaders of the Pentagon; that's what people, the honorary officers, who have been expelled from Kragujevac, tell me. You've abolished the army in Kragujevac. There's no more garrison. People who have completed all the general schools, who are in high positions at the General Staff, still, what remains of the honorable officers, are disgusted by the fact that spies from the Pentagon are running there. And you know what would happen if some colonel of ours went to the Pentagon -- they'd point ten rifles at his head from moment to time, and he couldn't move, he shouldn't blink. You are now giving such a minister, who sold us to the army, who gives us to the chosen enemies, that he arranges what the seal will look like. It's at least untasteful, Mr. Markovic. You didn't even write this law, but you inherited it from these predecessors of yours, you just finished a little bit. Balinian is an idea maker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9127	The People's Messenger George Mamula has the word, and then you will end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9128	The proposed amendment suggests that Jojic be amended in Article 1(2) so as to read: "The content, appearance and use of the units' seals and the institutions of the Serbian Army are governed by the Serbian Military Act". However, the applicant accepts Article 1st, which says the law regulates the purpose, content, appearance and use of the seal and the Serbian Army. An amendment to paragraph 2 cannot be submitted without the amendment being submitted to paragraph 1. Therefore, if the applicant accepts the solution set out in Article 1(1) of this Act, it is logical that this substance in Article 2 must be regulated by a sublaw. This is not at all controversial, given the number of units and military facilities, it cannot be regulated by the military law. So, Minister, please, when you decide to think about these arguments that I have made, because it is impossible to ask for a change in attitude 2 and to accept attitude 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9129	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9130	I think MP Mamula, if necessary to defend the draft law written by the Democratic Party of Serbia, insults the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not at all in the conflict that the first position of Article 1 determines that this law regulates the purpose, content, appearance and use of the seal used by the Serbian Army and the 2nd position that continues to work... You know, there's only one seal used by the Serbian Army. Item 2 refers to all those other seals that are being discussed by the Serbian Army. So there is only one seal that applies to the Serbian Army; its appearance is governed by this law. In part, he was right to propose the law which he had to find a purpose for the other seals of units and institutions and who would determine; he suggested it to be a minister, and we say he was wrong. So, it's not in collegiate if you're asking for all other unit stamps and the Serbian Army's institutions to be regulated by another law. It's not in college. Serbia's military seal remains regulated by this law. There is only one seal of the Serbian Army, such as only one seal of the Serbian government, and then you have a hundred other authorities of the administration using some other seal, on which other acts are brought. We have a problem here that the Department of Defense has been singled out. There are other such ministries that have to use more stamps within their organisation, which I would not mention. There's more ministries like that. Why didn't you also say that the appearance of the seal of certain SUPs would be determined by the interior minister? We believe that a minister should not be given such authority, that he arranges how the country is represented. Let the Serbian Army unit represent the country with its seal. The Minister can't make that happen. What if he puts the coat of arms of Ojah? Then what are you going to say, Mr. Mamula? Or if he puts on a snake, after they ate all the snakes in Serbia, what will you say? That we were right. Why don't we settle this with the Army Act? If it's up to us to single out the Army, it's set aside by a special military law, let's get it all right, because it all went down to seven or eight units, our armies are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9131	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9132	So, as before, this law has been processed by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and I have initiated the adoption of these two laws. So we didn't inherit it from anyone and no one else worked or any other party worked. I really think we did a good job. These laws regulate very important things, especially this law, a series of practical problems that exist today in Serbia and will be a clear and unequivocal use of state seals. Allow us to hold further consultations within the Ministry. I can't answer the question now whether or not we'll accept your amendment. So I believe the amendment is a good one, but let's have another consult. If the other elements, which we must take into account when accepting such amendments, tell us that it is correct, we will definitely accept the amendment. Really don't doubt it, because we're not vain at all. Thank you for trying to fix the text of the law this way, and I say, we will do what is up to us. So once again we're going to cross this whole matter and check to what extent it's right what you're proposing; we're going to see what the Military Act provides and we're going to pay particular attention to this question that you're talking about. As far as constitutionality is concerned, I'm really behind this absolutely, and whatever solution it is, it's totally in line with the Constitution, and I don't think we should be having a debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9133	The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9134	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the sealing of state and other bodies, by proposing that Article 3 be made. The bill deletes in general. I will try, honourable MPs and Mr. Minister, to convince you of the correctness of my position that this Article 3 is to be deleted. Article 3 The draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies refers to the content of the seals, and particularly regulates that the seal contains the name and coat of arms of Serbia. You could, Minister, listen to this. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically Article 7(1), specifies that the Republic of Serbia has its coat of arms, flag and anthem. The constitution also specified that Serbia's coat of arms is used as a large coat of arms and as a small coat of arms. Given that the legal norm as an essential part of each law must be clear and precise, and the language of the norm must be in the spirit of the matter being processed, it is not clear whether Article 3 whose erasure I have proposed refers to a small coat of arms or a large coat of arms, Mr Minister, as governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Articles 7 and 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes the difference between the small coat of arms and the large coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, so if there remains such a provision of the bill, it will not only be unclear and imprecise, but it will be contrary to the law and will be unconstitutional, and for these reasons I have suggested that it be deleted. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court, it has it formally on paper, but there are not enough judges to make measurement decisions, which corresponds to this puppet government, because at least half of the laws and sublegal acts would be abolished, given that there are a large number of requirements for the assessment of the constitutionality of acts. I would just briefly refer to this former member of Honourable Member Peter Jojic to convince you of the content, but it is not worth it, he went, to the correctness of this amendment, where he asked for the content, appearance and use of the stamps of the units and the institutions of the Serbian Army to be governed by the law on the Serbian Army. Namely, it's technically okay here. You've tried in a clever way to execute so-called. deregulatory relations, so you made it possible for the Secretary of Defense to do so. But deregulation of relationships here is simply not possible, so it's not right, Mr. Mamula. It is perfectly consistent with the correlation of this position, that is, the amendment of Petar Jojic, of my distinguished colleague, because as far as the unit's seal is concerned, only the law and the law on the Serbian Army can be laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9135	The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Mr. Rakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9136	Ladies and gentlemen, under Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I would like to get a notice from the government or other authorities on the scandal that is happening at the moment, or that happened today, which is now being reported by most of the media in Serbia, and I will read you the news, so you can see it in public services. Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic voiced hope that Belgrade's readiness to step down in negotiations on Kosovo's future and estimated that the upcoming presidential elections will confirm that citizens see the future in Euro-Atlantic integration. Serbia is fully prepared to make concessions to make a move before December 10th, Reuters reported, and you can see that on Reuters. Jeremic believes unfounded fears that Serbia could turn instead of EU membership to a larger alliance with Russia. At the same time, Bozidar Djelic in Berlin says he overcomes the view that negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status are not progressing and that independence is almost a safe outcome. Germany, however, is still looking for a solution. It is wanted for an original solution, primarily in institutional ties between Belgrade and Pristina. Serbia is ready for such a solution and plays a constructive role in the negotiations. All applicable models such as Hong Kong, two former Germany, etc. are being examined. It's a complete scandal. So, to start from the end, that the two former Germanys were two completely separated states, to discuss institutional ties between Belgrade and Pristina, as if it were two independent separate states. After all, a fundamental question arises who gave these people the mandate and the authority to make such statements on behalf of the Republic of Serbia? We killed ourselves here trying to protect the sovereignty of our country, to protect Kosovo and Metohija, and to preserve Serbia's sovereignty, and the people representing us abroad give statements that directly destroy the country's sovereignty. Totally scandalous. I just can't believe that the representatives of the state authorities have dared to put these statements at risk all of what the National Assembly has ordered and the resolutions, which we voted on together. The National Assembly and its representatives did not order this kind of policy to be conducted, nor do I believe there is anyone who will stand up here to defend this policy. It is a shame that there is someone who equates Belgrade and Pristina's status and says Serbia will make concessions. What more concessions can Serbia do? Have we come out with the thesis to accept every kind of broad autonomy; let them find in the world any model, that we will accept. What more could it be than independence from the state? This is really scandalous. I would like the government's representatives to give me an explanation of whether this is a government policy, whether these are independent statements by two individuals or whether something is happening in Serbia that is completely scandalous and that the SRS MPs will not suffer peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9137	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm looking at the subject of the amendment, colleague Koprivica. He's not here. This amendment refers to Article 3. Proposal for a law which regulates the contents of the seal. The amendment shall require the removal of this article. In order to even discuss the amendment, I would first quote Article 3 of this law. You'll see from your quote that it's pointless to delete this, because then the whole law loses its meaning. Namely, Article 3. The draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies reads: 'The seal contains the name and coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, the name, or name and seat of the state and other body or public authority. ''Stat 2: ''The seal also contains the name of the Authority of the Administration as part of the Ministry, and may also contain the name and seat of an organisational unit in the state and other body, if that unit is authorised by law to decide in a administrative procedure or in other individual matters''. Article 3: "The seal which uses the diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad contains the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, the name and seat of the representation. ''If this article regulates the contents of the seal, which is its essence and this is the subject of the fact of this contract, it is absolutely pointless to delete such a member, and to have a law on the seal of the state authorities. What would this seal look like, if this member didn't have - to cut off potatoes, so we could make something in potatoes that would serve as a state seal? So that's nonsense. It might make sense to change this article and make a proposal for what should contain the seal, but just deleting a member without an appropriate second proposal is pointless. For these reasons, I really expect all MPs, regardless of which political parties they come from, to vote against the adoption of this amendment. His senselessness is so great that he is no longer worth discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9139	The 5th Amendment with correction was filed by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor. There you go, of course. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word. I'm sorry, according to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9140	He's so meaningful, buddy, I'm gonna keep arguing. So, colleague Koprivica is currently out, and the meaning of the amendment is reflected in the fact that you were sitting on your ears when we talked or when Mr. Nikolic was just... That's what you say, why are you insulting yourself? I really don't understand. Don't be vain. You first said it was a meaningless amendment, it's pointless what we're talking about, so. I would never say that about what you're saying. I can say that everything the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica say has nothing to do with reality, that it has nothing to do with the Constitution, that it closes its eyes to one eye, so one day it says, it can do this, and tomorrow it can shut up for the third time, but to say it senselessly, I really wouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9141	Can I just get involved, Miss Jovanovic, about this? It's not nice to say it's pointless, and it's not nice to say someone's sitting on their ears. It's nice in elementary school, amongst the children, but it's not nice among the MPs. But, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9142	You see what the citizens of Serbia say, it has begun to look so much like the National Assembly that they are more serious and children in primary school.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9143	Let's do everything we can to be serious, at least more serious than the kids in primary school.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9144	I'm trying to be serious. That's why I'm giving my classmates. So, like this, since you're already talking about school, I'm saying a lesson. You should accept the amendment of my colleague Koprivica to get us into this story, I understand that it doesn't make any sense to you, but for us, it does, that the ministries don't. Here, the case of his colleague, Jojic, is really enough for us earlier, as Mr Nikolic said, that there are only seven units of the Serbian Army left. It's pointless for a minister to do so and to be able to settle other laws. If we're going to have a law on foreign affairs, and we don't know where it is, even though Vuk Jeremic told us about it, who obviously recognises the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, before the Americans or any other enemies did, then let's wait and see what that law looks like and if he predicted what the seal would look like there, what consular representations would do and how they would use it. Don't talk about what our party's intention is to fit into the Constitution and tell you again, Mr. Markovic, that you didn't understand a colleague of Jojic's... He didn't say it was against the Constitution, but it's more normal for us to have all of this regulated in the Army and Foreign Affairs Act. All other provisions, along with our repairs, can remain. So the law will not lose any meaning if the seal contents are not regulated by this law. Then it's pointless for you to keep telling us that Jocic was right when he didn't arrange the look of the passport, which should have been arranged. Right? By the way, some sublegal act by the minister. It's an amendment that makes sense. Unlike you, I call on the minister to consider this and the MPs to accept the amendment of my colleague Bozidar Koprivica in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9145	Thank you. Moving to Article 5. The amendment, with correction, was brought together by Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with corrections, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is by MP Dejan Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I think it's my turn to introduce myself at the beginning to colleagues who don't know me, who weren't in the last meeting of the National Assembly. I'm Dejan Stojljkovic. I'm a member of the DSS and I'm from Prokupil. I have reported for amendments of the People's MPs Lassla Varge and Balint Pastor to Article 5. Proposal for a law on the sealing of state authorities. I believe, as well as my colleagues from the DSS and other parties, that this amendment should not be accepted. In this amendment, this amendment is provided for in Article 5. The draft law behind heading 6 adds the views 7, 8 and 9 which read as follows: ''In the event that, in accordance with this law, the wording of the seal of the authority is written in both the language and the letter of the national minorities, the head office of the administration of the ministries, or the organisational unit of the body, shall be drawn up according to their tradition and spelling. The traditional names of cities, the municipalities of inhabited places in which the language and letter of the national minority is officially used, lays down the national council of a specific national minority within three months of the date of entry into force of this law and are published in the 'Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia'. Traditional names of cities, municipalities and nationalities on the territory of the AP Vojvodina which have been established and published in accordance with the Decision of the Autonomous Region, the entry into force of this law shall become the traditional names of the seat of the body referred to in Article 2 of this Act. '"The present position 7 becomes attitude 10. Why shouldn't this amendment be accepted? First, because the issue of the rights of national minorities needs to be regulated, we have already heard it, in a comprehensive and comprehensive way, by adopting an appropriate system law. I don't think it's a good idea for these issues to be solved piece by piece and that these solutions are in different laws, and I'm sure it wasn't a wish or a proposal for this amendment, Mr. Varga and Mr. Pastor. Of course, this does not mean that there is no quality shift in the law itself when it comes to the exercise of the rights of national minorities. If that were the case, it can be seen from Articles 4 and 5. It's a bill of law. Article 4 provides that the wording of the seals of the authorities established in the territory on which the languages and letters of national minorities are to be printed in both the language and the letter of the national minorities are to be used. Article 5 defines the way in which the text of the seals will be printed and in particular the place in which the text in the language and letter of the national minorities is to be printed. These solutions are absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in several members, Articles 14, 75, 79, etc., guarantees the protection of the rights of national minorities, in order to achieve equality and the preservation of identity, to use their language and letter. What is the second reason why this amendment should not be accepted? We have already seen that the amendment says "Traditional names of cities, municipalities and settlements on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina... "and so on. Serbia, as you know, has two provinces: Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable to introduce a member in this law, which lists only the province of Vojvodina. If we did, we would practically run over the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that we brought last year, which says the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. If the applicants wanted, and I'm sure they did, to make an additional move in achieving the rights of national minorities, they had to cover both provinces of the Republic of Serbia in the amendment. To my distinguished colleagues who have submitted this amendment and to all citizens of Serbia, I would like to say that national minorities will not have a better and more sincere ally than the DSS when it comes to their rights. We've shown that multiple times. It is known to all that the key contribution to the adoption of this Constitution has been given by the Democratic Party of Serbia and Kostunica, as well as by the adoption of a whole series of laws here in the Assembly; today we have heard from my colleague, Milica Radovic. So, finally, I want to reiterate that the DSS's position is that these and other issues, when it comes to protecting the rights of national minorities, should be resolved by adopting a system law, that this law should cover all national minorities, whether they live in the territory of the province of Vojvodina or the province of Kosovo and Metohija or anywhere in Serbia, and therefore the proposed amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9147	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Krasic has submitted an amendment to Article 8 which reads - Article 8 is deleted. The Serbian government has given an explanation why it does not accept the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic, and has not read the explanation in the proposal, and I will read both of them to you. First, an explanation in the amendment: "In the context of the overall bill, Article 8, it is completely unnecessary and excessive. In addition, the introduction of so-called A small seal could in practice cause different abuses. "To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, to whom this law, if adopted, as well as to any other law, if adopted without the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, will be painted on the head, I will read Article 8. He says, "Organ can have one smaller diameter seal. The content of the small seal is the same and is written in the same way as the seal contained in Articles 3 and 5 of this Act. In a small seal, the name of the organ may be shortened, so that it is clearly visible from the short text whose seal it is. A small seal is used in cases where its use is more appropriate. The diameter of the small seal shall not be less than 20 mm or greater than 28 mm. On the need for the existence of a small seal, as well as the number of copies, the size, the shortened name of the organ and the use of a small seal, shall be decided by the body manager, or by the authorised person. "So, every organ manager, counting the heads of these institutions you made in that pyramid, because whenever you did, you made a pyramid where you hired as many of your own, their only qualification was to have a membership card from one of your coalition's parties. We are witnessing such abuses of seals, especially when it is possible to create a larger number of seals; with that so-called. small stamps, since they are unable to place a normal seal on that institution, or institution, abuses are far greater. The government answers: "The amendment is not accepted because the possibility that the body has a small seal is provided for and in the applicable law and this solution has proved to be justified in practice. The purpose of this provision is to be consistent in the work of the authorities using a small seal in cases where its use is more appropriate, and the control of the use of small and large seals is arranged in the same way... ". What do you get by using that so-called. A little seal? Less ink consumption? What is the purpose of making more seals of the same institution, the same institution? What does it mean to use a small seal in practice? Where is this more appropriate, where is it more meaningful and what is the benefit of the state of Serbia than that of an institution besides a normal seal, which every institution and institution has, will have an even small stamp, and of course be regulated by law? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, nothing is lost, and much is gained if the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic is adopted, the possibility of abuse is reduced. Mr. Milivojevic, Miss Natasha explained, we're putting stamps where we're in power and you're banging, and not just stamps. It reduces the possibility of abuse, reduces the possibility of machinations, and allows at least to be traced if someone misuses the seal. That's how the tracks go wrong. Knowing you, what Branko Ćopić says "I know you too", I'm sure there will be abuses. That is why I propose that all MPs adopt the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic to delete this article 8th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9149	Thank you. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic, then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9150	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, just for a moment. Mr. Zoran Krasic suggested in his amendment that Article 8 of the proposed law be deleted. I hope by 18 hours we'll finish discussing this law, so I don't read and waste time quoting an entire member, what Mr. Markovic has already quoted to the MPs, means, "Organ may have one smaller diameter seal. "Then: "The small seal is used in cases where its use is more appropriate", and the fifth position: "The need for a small seal, as well as the number of copies, size, a shortened name of the organ and the use of a small seal is decided by the head of the body, i.e. the authorised body or body. "No authorized face. I think there's a reason why this amendment should not simply be accepted. I don't think there's any fear of abuse of a small seal. Its use can certainly be very useful. We also discussed with representatives of the ministry who explained the provisions of the laws to DSS MPs, our MP club and New Serbia MPs, had many questions concerning this law and these amendments. It has been said that there are organs where it is much more celery, much more meaningful to use a small seal. For example, in order to verify the health book, it is something that all citizens of this country need, and we have just talked about the state seal, whether they will run from one secretary to the other or not, it is likely that there will be a service in health institutions that will only deal with this business so that citizens do not suffer, waste time and wait in line because there is only one seal. Certainly, the law provides for the possibility of non-abuse because, practically, the small seal and the big seal are treated in this law in exactly the same way. So, both their production and their later use. Minister, I hope I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9151	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9152	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS intend to improve the text of the law. Wherever we believe that for objective, rational and economic reasons, there is a legitimate need to fix something, we point to you. The case is Article 8. What's with the paint, the small and the big seal? Let's see what kind of organisational units these are, what are institutions and what organs in one vault, how many seals they're going to have. You see one inconsistencies: "The small seal is used in cases where its use is more appropriate. "This is something that in legal terminology, as definition and as norm, cannot survive. "The diameter of the small seal cannot be less than 20 mm or more than 28 millimeters. "Please, does this mean that one ministry will have more organs, so the diameter of the seal in one organ will be 20 millimeters, and in the other organ of the same ministry will be 28, and someone will say - we need 30. I think this norm needs to be precise, or to be 20 millimeters, or to be 28, because it doesn't make sense to give so much opportunity and open space that everyone does what they do to him personally. In the SRS' view, it is absolutely inappropriate, unnecessary and unacceptable for the body to decide on the appearance and size of the small seal. We think there should be one seal of that organ, the same size, the same shape, looks and symbols, and that's not where the paint is made. Here the possibilities for counterfeits are opened, for abuses; the possibility of misleading certain entities who are going into legal relations with those who need to make such small stamps is opened, and in practice, at least as far as I know, there have been major abuses when it comes to the seals of individual organs. For the forgeries of that small seal there is an 80% greater possibility than a bigger seal. Forgeries will have the opportunity to make a small stamp, so that no one will be able to read it easily, but it will be useful and that the authority that considers it to be an act which it has issued, that the act has been issued by a state body, or by a body registered as a legal entity with the competent authority. That is why we believe that this amendment is fully justified and it is heading towards improving the text of the law in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9153	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9154	Ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign, the political party comes out with their programs and intentions to improve and better do better for the citizens. Believe me, for 16 years I have been following and participating in Serbia's political life, there are almost no political parties that don't say - we'll be faster, we'll be more efficient, we'll do everything in the citizens' interest, citizens don't have to wait any longer when we come to power, we'll solve problems quickly. Then when you're stuck in the ministerial chair, in the authorities of the municipal government, you forget all those promises, it's no longer valid; it's the ranks again, it's the barriers of administrative nature, and citizens can't exercise their right to do what someone promised them in the campaign, and he cheated them, not to use any other word. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic – who must, along with other Serbian radicals, and at the moment struggle to preserve the legitimate authority of our party in the municipality of Rum, one of the most successful municipalities in Srem and in Serbia, where Serbian radicals have their elected representative, where you have sent two police buses and where you are trying to recruit committees – has suggested that, with proper documentation, the request for consent to the content and appearance of the seals be decided within 24 hours of the day of submitting an orderly request. The promoter put – within three days, and wrote the answer, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia – the amendment is not accepted because we believe that the three-day deadline is realistic. We think 24 hours is a real deadline, because if we want to, and we Serbian radicals want to, in every respect, improve the government's attitude towards citizens, we promise now, and that is the amendment of fellow Martinovic, that we will be able, and the ministry in which Serbian radicals sit, to do so in 24 hours. We never push problems under the carpet, we don't stick our head in the sand, but we immediately solve all these problems, and, as you can see, we react immediately when we get the performances from the citizens; not to remind you of the release of the workers of the WHO in Kragujevac and this scandal around the Robing Houses, but it expires in a few days, as on Monday, we'll see what happens to the sale of the once best trading company. As we respond when it comes to other problems, which we talk about every day in these Articles 225, 226 and in the interpretation of amendments and through the criticism of the law. In all public authorities, in municipal administrations, first in Zemun, since 1997, when the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, was the president of the municipality, now Mrs Pop-Lazic, in Novi Sad, Ruma, Stari Pazova, even in Bor, one of the poorest municipalities, which is burdened with so many problems, a copy of the birth certificate not only does not wait, but people do not pay at all, and that money does not enter the municipal register. I have to tell you that we've shown everywhere, wherever we've exercised power in the organs of local self-government, and at that difficult time when we were in power at the republican level, that we've been solving all the problems effectively. What is the problem, Mr. Minister, to accept the amendment of fellow Martinovic? In 24 hours, with orderly documentation, every minister, or ministry, can give consent. You'd better start with the fact that it's not going to be 5,000 press releases today. Let's see how far we've come with the requirements for citizenship, you see how many people are waiting; when someone is so urgent, and there are many cases of children and the lack of rights, especially from the field of social security or for treatment, I've had to do so many times with this associate Jocic, Nemanje Bojicicicicic, to react that in such situations the issue of citizenship has accelerated. Now that that's the case, why should we keep the ministry from doing its job more effectively? It can end within 24 hours. And you could have written something else and not -- it's unrealistic. What's three days from now? Why didn't you put on five days? We think that the deadline given to state authorities to complete a job, such as issuing consent, is limited to a number of hours that has proved more effective in practice. After all, you, Mr. Minister, know it best; you are the best to react and you are the most threatened and you are the most afraid for the minister's chair when your clock is ticking, or a minute. You remember how in 20 to 12, it was 20 minutes before the deadline, you voted for yourself from the parliamentary bench, as an MP, to be a minister. Time is running out, minutes are running out, it's not an hour anymore, it's a minute. Now, let's show you, when you knew about yourself at the last minute to vote as an MP to be a minister, let's get these people to get consent to the stamp within 24 hours. Be consistent with what you do yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9155	Thank you. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I have experience in the conduct of state authorities, and especially of officials who decide on the rights of our citizens, I believe that this amendment submitted by our MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. What prevents a civil servant from giving consent and the moment he receives the request and examines that the request is orderly and well-founded? What prevents that clerk from telling the citizen - wait half an hour, an hour to decide on your request. This agreement is not a solution or judgment to explain and determine a factual situation on the ten pages. That agreement consists of five or six sentences. Therefore, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is quite right and has given a valid explanation, the efficiency of our bodies should be raised to a higher level. I'm telling you, unless we're harder on those organs and officials who are harassing our citizens so that citizens come often and ten times for a simple permit, usually a notice or consent... For what? Because we don't have an effective administration. Now let me give you an example. Why are the rows in the motherland and for the orders of certain documents in the municipality of Panchevo so great? Because we don't have effective local self-government in Pancheva. Citizens in line for hours and days are waiting to gain confidence in citizenship, to verify a particular document, to submit a certain request. A clerk full of municipalities. I'm pointing to this because I've worked long in the state's organs. It depends on that civil servant whether he will respond to the citizen today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and even after a month, and decide upon the request. It's not some complex request. This is about one agreement that can absolutely be given within a very short period of time, that we are doing our citizens a favor, because they are officials of the administration, the authorities of the administration of our citizens who pay them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9157	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's only a matter of detailing the deadlines in which the actions are carried out. The amendment does not change the essence of the member at all, even prescribes it in four positions, I think, but the first position is very important, because the government has unequivocally suggested that the disappearance or loss of the seal be reported without delay, and then says it is advertised invalid in the official vote. Just that you wrote there again - without delay, to advertise to an invalid, so that it makes sense for this member. This way, without delay you report missing or losing, and will appear invalid in the Official Messenger. When? Not "Official Messenger" is printed every day, and it is not the official messenger's application that you have declared invalid, but when it can be read and when it is available to all citizens. The amendment says, within 24 hours of the day of the disappearance or the loss of the seal, it shall be notified to the Ministry, or to the competent authority of the AP, and in the official report of the Republic of Serbia or the AP, shall be invalid within 24 hours of the day of its loss or disappearance. It's all clear and clear. It guides, obliges, so must be done. This "without delay", I don't know what kind of deadline it is or what someone who understands the deadlines, what time it is without delay. I understand when a man is bitten by a snake, so without delay, he has to look for a doctor. If he's far from the facility, he'll be here in an hour, two or three. Does this mean that he immediately begins reporting his disappearance without delay? What if he doesn't? If he says - I've called the ministry several times and no one is answering or busy, is it true that he reported missing without delay? So please think a little bit, don't hurt, and indeed the norm will be absolutely clear and determined. So, 24 hours to report missing and 24 hours to announce invalid in "The Official Messenger," and it continues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9159	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Branislav Nedimovic, following this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9160	Dear fellow MPs, as we are already approaching the end of today's work day, I just wanted to say a few things about this amendment submitted by our colleague Sreto Peric, who explained my predecessor. This amendment, submitted by our colleague Sreto Peric, refers to deadlines related to the application of the seal's disappearance. I think this is a solution that stands in the draft law on the sealing of state authorities much more celery. I would only like to make one finding, or reason why this solution might have to be left "without delay", and because of what my predecessor said that this 24-hour deadline was more appropriate. I agree that counting time must be precise and that there must be a clear knowledge of the moment from when something counts and to when something is going on, especially because in every law, such as this, there are criminal provisions relating to that person that eventually violates his or her obligation to be in the law. It may make sense in this first 24 hours period, however, I think there may be a problem with advertising in "The Official Messenger" and that there may be a problem with this amendment in this part. This would be acceptable, from my point of view, if only this first deadline existed, and this second deadline didn't. I simply don't think the official messenger would be able, or that advertising facility, to react so quickly. This claim of yours in the first part certainly stands, but since the entire amendment has covered one and the other things, we cannot now cut the amendment in half. I wish I could make more amendments, so we can cut this amendment and make the law whole. Surely all the MPs who have submitted the amendments want to improve the text of the law, even in those parts where it is said, are deleted this member of the law. It must be their desire to improve a certain law. In part two, I would say something about the efficiency of local self-government authorities, as well as the efficiency of the state administration at all. When it comes to any authority, the Republic, the local, the government of the AP Vojvodina or Kosovo and the Metohija, however, all holders of the powers in these state bodies must make sure that citizens can exercise their rights under any law in one effective way. I just wish in six months, in a year we didn't have to talk about this issue anymore and that the state administration at any level of government could be effective, that we leave this topic, the efficiency of the state administration behind. That would be best, so be the representatives of the DSS, DS, the SRS or any other party in power. I hope that we will all strive to do so and it is certain that there are certain incentives from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as well as from other funds that contribute to this objective. I think we all have to fight together, along with the minister and together with the government, whichever it is, that citizens are most easily exercising their rights to the authorities of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9161	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, and we will give the minister the word in the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague has previously given an explanation and he himself noticed that the SRS is right because it points to certain things that can improve the text of this law. I'd just like to say a few words about the comments of my colleague, the predecessor, when it comes to the administration and the work of the local authorities. It's up to the Elder of the Organ to function the entire organ. If a citizen is to wait six months for a building permit, neither an authority elder, nor an official, nor an urbanist, nor an engineer can perform that duty. The elders of the authorities should place certain places of expertise, capable of doing certain work in time. Any action taken in the administration at local level, as well as in the Republic, must be limited in time. If the clerk has not done a certain shop, he has not made a decision, he has not decided at the request of the citizens, he is told - you cannot do this job further, you will do another job, and others will come to do this job more efficiently, faster, more honorablely and honestly for our citizens. Now let's ask one question. I ask the question of the Minister of Construction - how much has been filed for legalisation in the Republic of Serbia and what date, by municipalities? How far has it been solved and within what time limit, how many demands are still pending? Who are these civil servants who have been harassing citizens that they can't exercise their right for a year and a half, two days? That's the point. That's why we're here, to pass laws that will time-limit bureaucracy from harassing citizens, and that citizens exercise their rights in time, as the Constitution guarantees them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9163	The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know why the "Minister Against Local Self-Government" would not adopt this amendment. According to Article 18, the print of the stamp, the data on the number of copies of the seal and the date of its application, the Authority is required to deliver "the Ministry against local self-government" (in the case of the Ministry), or to the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, within ten days of the date of manufacture of the seal. In his amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic asked for this deadline to be shortened and said – a print of the stamp, data on the number of copies of the seal and the date of its application, the authority is required to deliver it to the ministry, or the competent authority of the Autonomous Province within 48 hours. There is no reason to wait ten days for a seal that has already been made and probably not already been delivered to the ministry, that the ministry has it and records it; if it is a local self-government, then "the ministry against local self-government".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9165	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9166	This is the last amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to this bill. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted an amendment saying "Article 24 is deleted". Article 24 says -- the defence minister will bring regulations on the content, appearance and use of seals in units and institutions of the Serbian Army within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. National MP Petar Jojic has decadently explained why this article should be deleted. I propose that the MPs vote on this amendment in voting day and that we delete this otherwise controversial member in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9167	Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9168	Finally, I want to thank all the MPs who participated in this discussion. I hope you will adopt the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, especially given the last two hours of the debate, to refer to the law on the seals of state and other bodies and to the state seal law. I would say that, in my deep belief, these are very important laws, that the law on the seals of state and other bodies will solve a series of illogicalities that you have probably met yourself in your professional work outside politics, that it will lead to an equal and equal legal position for members of all national minorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that, according to still applicable regulations, members of the national minority living in the territory of the Republic outside the province cannot use the seal, even in that municipality where they live were in the official use of the language and letter of the national minority, while in the autonomous provinces it is possible. It was a very large anomaly and the illogicalness of our legal system, which, unfortunately, at the end of the debate, I want to tell you, was abused by individuals, and there was a significant number of complaints at the expense of the Republic of Serbia to various international organisations. Fortunately, it is clear to all of us that this is, in fact, the result of a rather dynamic constitutional-legal development, although it may not be the right word, or, in particular, what has been happening in the past few years, the end of one state, the end of another state, the state community, etc. In any case, many of the problems that exist now, when it comes to the use of stamps used by state and other authorities, will disappear by adopting this law. I thank all those who participated in this debate. I hope that as soon as possible this law will come into force and that we can at least have this matter in a comprehensive manner governed by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-26-0.u9169	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I want to thank all the MPs for the extremely constructive and correct atmosphere today. Have a nice weekend. Have a nice rest. The session is due Monday at 10 o'clock. To the MPs and all the citizens who celebrate the Holy Friday tomorrow, I wish them happy glory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 110 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendment on Amendments and Supplements to the OSIGURANJ Law (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Zdravko Topalović, Dejan Mirović, Nebojša Stefanović, Sreto Perić, Zoran Antić, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Buha, Radiša Ilic, Milan Avramović, Otto Kišmarton, Veroljub Arsić, Saša Valjarevic, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Jorganka Tabaković, Momir Marković and Vlado Sekulić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give my word to the messenger of the people, Zdravko Topalovic, the Messenger of the Prophet of the People of Radeth appeared according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
