ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4350	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by a 121-nation MP. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Mujo Mukovic and Laslo Varga. You have received the resignation of Parliamentarian Andrea Galgo-Ferenci as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament and proposing that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before it was elected, to the MP Andrei Galgo-Ferenci, elected from the electoral list of the Union of Duchy Hungarians - Joseph Kasa, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska Prior to that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4351	If you, Mr. Albian, didn't act so smart, and that didn't go with your hand, you'd give me your word right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4352	I have no reason to pretend, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4353	It's hard for a man to be smart if God didn't give him a gift. I must tell you, Mr. Albianic, to avoid any inconvenience if you had given me your word immediately when you should have given me your word in the Rules of Procedure. You have now performed some of the actions in which I do not know, I want to object, and you have done it on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As we can see from the media, the president of the assembly has been temporarily prevented from being president of the assembly, traveling. In the event of his temporary prevention, he determines the vice president who replaces him, who is here in the country president of the assembly. That's what he's been informing all the vice presidents. If he doesn't do something like that, he's replaced by the oldest vice president. Since the president of the Assembly was also prevented at the last session, which we so infamously interrupted, it was then replaced by Mr Rade Obradovic. Mr. Rade Obradovic must lead this session because he is, I suppose, authorized by the president of the Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Serb Radical Party have not been informed at all who are replacing the president of the Assembly these days while he has chosen to travel. That is why, Mr Albianic, you have no right to lead this session since no one has authorized you to do so, and in particular you have not been authorized by the President of the Assembly, who I assume is the authority of Mr Radet Obradovic. Until Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic returns, he is replaced by the MP, Vice-President Radojko Obradovic. That's why you guys stay away. It's nice to hear that, but you didn't deserve it. Step aside, let Mr. Obradovic come to the Assembly to be led by the President of the Assembly. No Dulic, Dulic has determined who is here, Dulic. You're not the Dulic, Mr. Albianic, it's obvious. Please don't play. I'm making a little bit of a joke about this, but it's a very serious situation. The president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, which is one a little more equal between those 250 who represent the people here, has ordered Mr Obradovic to replace it, what are you doing here? It can't be that you're from G 17 plus that means you can fall into any place you want. And even if you do, we won't be complicit in it. We, the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, consider you to be able to lead this session and we will not participate in this session. There are us, God-given, enough to point you to that breach of the Rules of Procedure and ask you nicely to step aside, to lead the assembly by the one who led when Oliver Dulic disappeared, who replaces Oliver Dulic. Don't forget, it's not the replacement of the president of the assembly to take over the session, it's the one who's sitting there right now, he's really the president of the assembly. He doesn't replace him in holding a session, but replaces him in his function, because he's temporarily prevented, he can't run the Assembly from abroad. Therefore, Mr. Albianic, please consult, Article 31, paragraph 2, read if necessary, you cannot lead this session of the National Assembly. You're not the one the president of the assembly authorized to replace him for 5, 10, 15 days while he's away. You can replace him in holding a session when he comes out for some needs, and now this is a very serious situation. We need to know who the President of the Assembly is these days and there's no replacements. Only one man in Serbia is the speaker of the assembly and he alone determines who is the speaker of the assembly in his absence. You were not appointed by Mr Oliver Dulic but Radojka Obradovic, and I am ashamed to tell you that in at least two stronger political parties in your coalition that the president of the Assembly is from the third power, fourth, fifth, god knows. There'll be no choice. You won't even be here, Mr. Albianic. So I'm seriously pointing to this injury. Try to answer me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you do not respond, we will continue to point you to this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4354	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to ask such a question, but the president of the National Assembly has been empowered by the Vice President of the National Assembly for the Management of Businesses. As vice-president of the National Assembly, I have the authority to hold the session, and the presidents of the National Assembly, and the vice-president of the National Assembly, Radet Obradović, who asked us to do this work today, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and I, up to 14 hours, will be working from 15 hours, if you need a schedule on how we will work during today, as far as the session is concerned, not in other affairs in the Assembly itself. I hope you don't mind, personally, that I don't disturb you like the person who sits here and runs these official affairs. Thank you for understanding. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday, at the appointment of this session, which did not begin that day because you were obviously reluctant to enter into a debate in the Rules of Procedure and in a manner that was appropriate to the National Assembly, I was informed by Mr Oliver Dulic that Radojko Obradovic, vice president of the National Assembly, was empowered to take office in the absence of Oliver Dulic – and was written from that day on, but it was not said until when, so we do not even know when the President of the National Assembly will return – he runs the National Assembly, chaired and conducted all the jobs of the President of the National Assembly of the Lord. When I came to the O.R. at the beginning of the session, I told Mr. Obradovic, like that, more in a joke, oh, good afternoon, Mr. President, and he said, well, I'm not, I'm the vice president. I say yes, but confirming what Mr Nikolic just said, now that there is no president, you are the one who takes care of the work of parliament. Of course, later, Mr Obradovic said that he, in accordance with some of his principles, and it is good that he did so, did not want to hold a session where such a united debate, which he proposed, and then withdrew, Mrs Nada Kolundzia, by putting all these ratifications and laws into one part of the agenda. Later, after the completion of the work of one and a half minutes, whose witnesses you are, he did not later, nor did Mr. General Bozidar Delic, the second vice president of the SRS, nor did he contact, nor did he inform me how this day will be and who will chair the session of the National Assembly. Mr. Albianic's manners are clear to me. I'm really surprised now that I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, that he's even spoken to the Vice President of the National Assembly and gave me his word. I've had countless times, ladies and gentlemen, while Mr. Albianic presides to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he says, "No matter what you call yourself, you're the vice president, you have nothing to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure." Now, I am not surprised that such a man is now presided over, and I am not surprised that he has possessed the presidency, because in his arrogance I can expect anything. When he tells me from the post of vice president - no matter what you have to report, no injured Rules of Procedure, then he can come and sit down and count on him to be 66 years of probably or a day more than Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, whom he really likes and only in the absence of the President of the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, as the oldest to chair. So, the thing is very clear. Mr. Albianic, either you imagined that you were 65 years old and one day old, or you imagined that you were God-saved to chair whenever you felt like it and to tell the vice presidents, like me, no matter what I care, or to sit in the seat of the vice president that I've been sitting at from the beginning and say, let me vote, and then I'll get up later. Well, we're not at the market, Mr. Albianic. I really don't want to get into the reasons why your party, fourth and fifth in line in your coalition, has proposed you to be vice president, but you're obviously no match for that role. You can't be a replacement when you don't have the authority to do that. You just told one truth, and that's proof that you can't preside. You say - I heard from him and he told me in a phone call, maybe you were walking around Calemegdan, I don't know when you agreed to do that, to replace him. The Rules of Procedure can't do that. Here, as one of the vice-presidents, I say to you, remove yourself nicely, contact this authorised Vice President Radojko Obradovic, and if not according to the Rules of Procedure, when he does not have the oldest, and that is not you, because you do not have that number of years, Mr. Mrkonjic can sit down nicely and let him chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4356	Please don't give out false information. I'm not 65 years old, I'm exactly 40 and a few days old. Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4357	I'll wait for the vice presidents to argue and argue, so let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the conduct of the National Assembly President, Mr Oliver Dulic, is an insult to this parliament, an insult to all the MPs and an insult to the citizens of Serbia. It's a typical example of how the president of the National Assembly shouldn't behave. Someone who schedules sessions, and then goes on some unnecessary tours, which no one has called and who doesn't have to be at this point. It's nice that the president of the National Assembly is touring the region touristically, but he doesn't have to now, he can take a break in parliament's work. You can't schedule a session of parliament, then go and wander around. Why are the taxpayers of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4358	I ask you to keep an eye on how we talk about the president of the National Assembly, because it concerns all of us. With respect, please, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4359	What I said is an expression of the absolute respect of Mr Oliver Dulic, because much worse qualifications can be addressed to his account. He insults reason, he insults the minds of Serbian citizens, he punishes Serbian taxpayers. Laugh freely. If that's what you think of him as the President of Parliament, I don't mind. Who spent money on a unnecessary session on Friday? Oliver Dulic. How much does this session cost the taxpayers of Serbia? That's what needs to be answered. How much does it cost to maintain a pointless session of the National Assembly on Friday? One more thing, I have urged Mr. Dulic on several occasions to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, at least from the National Assembly's quota. It's not gonna happen. I sent an open letter, so even Oliver Dulic found it appropriate to answer when he would be and how the state prosecutor would be elected. Gentlemen, when the President of Parliament behaves like this, it is no wonder that no one in particular respects us or respects us. I want to remind you that it is a unique case in the world that a country has a state prosecutor, who has been retired since 10 December 2005. Slobodan Jankovic is a pensioner for almost two years and a state prosecutor. It's mocking Serbian citizens, it's an insult to common sense, to intelligence. As such, he intends to work on it. That's what needs to get in the way. I'll continue, since I'm running out of time, a little more on Mr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4360	Since Mr. Dulic is on his way, he has authorized me to replace him in his absence. In preparation for today's session, the agreement was that between 10 and 12 sessions were led by Vice-President Albianic, who also had the power to hold the presidency and he was already doing so at some previous sessions, and from 12 to 14, Vice-President Mrkonjic, who also did so at these sessions, successfully or not, let the MPs judge. So that was the deal for today's session, and it's no problem that I'm doing it, but I'm saying it was a practice we were doing. Does anyone else report to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4361	Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request information from the defence minister on the introduction of a new act mark in the Serbian Army. Who prescribed it and in what procedure? I'm asking this question because we haven't taken any position on the Defence and Security Committee so far on the military's markings, and I don't think it's an unimportant question of what the military will look like to us. I simply want to know who decided and in what procedure, and whether this person was inspired by the markings of the Serb soldier and of the Serbian tradition or by the markings of another state and its army, let's say the U.S. Army. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to know that officers, already marked by current Minister Sutanovac, are at the very beginning of their mandate, preparing and learning that Kosovo and Metohija should not be defended with the Army of Serbia. Given the fact that no law on the Serbian Army has yet been passed, it is clear that such a decision has been made prematurely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4362	Thank you. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing a Special Parental Relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, you have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 94(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 94 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the debate is five hours, I agree that the time for discussion by the parliamentary groups is being allocated proportionally. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately for the order, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) He has the word Minister Milan Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4363	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, it is my pleasure to explain today, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4364	I'm sorry, I've been informed that the professional services have been forwarded, and if they haven't, then in the next few minutes, you will be given the authority of the government on July 13th to be Mr Markovic's representative for this point. In the next few minutes, it will be passed to you. I got the information on Friday that it was passed. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4365	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. So, with pleasure today, in front of you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will explain the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The basis for institutional co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska is foreseen by the Dayton-Paris Agreement through the possibility of establishing special parallel relations. A previous agreement on special parallel ties was signed in Banja Luka on 5 March 2001 between the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska, with practically the same starting point and objectives, as well as the Agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, which was signed on 26 September 2006, whose confirmation today is on the agenda of this high house. Experiences in applying the previous agreement were very positive in all areas of co-operation and contributed to the consolidation of overall relations, both with the Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. As a result, after the withdrawal of the Republic of Montenegro from the state union and the continuation of the state continuity of the Republic of Serbia as an independent, sovereign state, a decision was made on the signing of a new agreement that would reflect the changes that occurred and opened an even wider space for the versatile development of intensive and dynamic mutual co-operation. The agreement establishing special parallel relations signed in Banja Luka on 26 September 2006 confirms the willingness of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska to continue to contribute fully to the maintenance of permanent peace and stability in the region and work together to improve the highest level of co-operation, both in the field of economy and in the domain of education and science, the protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, culture, sports and a number of other areas, through regular co-operation and communication at the highest level, represented by the Council for Cooperation, whose members are members of the Republic and Government, through contacts of foreign ministers and other resolutions, as well as through regular contacts between the President of the Assembly and the Assembly bodies, as provided for in Article 7 of this Agreement. By signing a special parallel relations agreement on 26 September 2006, the level and intensity of relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska have been significantly improved. The activities provided for in this agreement and in part started very positively reflected, above all, on economic flows, which is of great importance to the Republika Srpska. On the economic side, Republika Srpska is indisputably successful at the moment and significantly ahead of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The privatisation process has still moved away, and the economy is more efficient. The most significant events are certainly the sale of "Telecoma" to Serbia's Telecom and the establishment of a rock foundation for the "Gacko 2" thermal power plant on 16 May 2007, which is an investment worth 1.4 billion euros. However, when we talk about Serbia and Republika Srpska's economic ties, we should certainly mention the purchase of 59% of Banja Luka's "Kosig" insurance by Dunav, the purchase of 67% of the capital of Banja Luka, by Hemofarm from Vrsac, the co-operation of Banja Luka's "Elmos" with Novokabel, the start of the work of the Commercial Bank Banja Luka, with the majority ownership of Belgrade Commercial Bank, the arrangement on the placement of tractors and agricultural machinery from Serbia, the prospect of building a 150-megabyte hydropower plant, the opening of TUNJUG's international press centre in Banja Luka, etc. Of the total foreign trade exchange of Republika Srpska in 2006, the most goods were imported right from the Republic of Serbia, about 330m euros, and exported to Serbia about 120m euros. Of course, Serbia and Republika Srpska's ties go beyond the economy and they are numerous, from personal, family, to cultural, educational, scientific, then social protection, health, etc. The Agreement on co-operation between Belgrade and Banja Luka University, as well as the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Association of Lawmakers of Republika Srpska and the Association for Criminal Theory and Practices of the Republic of Serbia, was signed. The fact is that Republika Srpska's educational system is heavily based on the educational programme and the plan and textbooks of the Republic of Serbia in primary and secondary education. It is also necessary to mention a protocol allowing disabled users who have acquired citizenship in the Republic of Serbia to exercise their rights in Serbia, as well as a long-term co-operation agreement between Banja Koviljaca and Republika Srpska's Health Insurance Fund, etc. As Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I would particularly like to highlight the prospects of the co-operation of our rural municipalities with the Podlinic municipalities of Republika Srpska, which could be the nucleus of future co-operation of municipalities in the Drina Basin. So, as you can see from these examples, relationships are multiple and very diverse. It is clear and known that our relations, the relations of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, are not burdened by any controversial issues. Co-operation is highly developed, especially because of the large flow of the population, which is linked to family, business, historical ties, across the border that crosses only with the ID card. These relations are qualitatively enriched by permanent work contacts, frequent mutual visits and expressed understanding of the highest officials of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. This development is also important for preserving the identity of the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the current circumstances contributes to the development and stability of Republika Srpska, as well as to the overall Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to the Republic of Serbia. The signing of the agreement was positively adopted by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community. A positive view of the agreement was also expressed by officials from Bosnia and Herzegovina in talks with Republika Srpska Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic during his official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the first destination since taking office on 28 May this year. Given the multiple importance of this agreement, as well as the fact that its ratification has already been carried out in Republika Srpska, the government has proposed that the certification law be adopted by emergency procedure. I thank you for your attention and I am at your disposal for any additional questions that are being opened during the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4366	Thank you. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic. Is it according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been working with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a very strange way, through the newly established office of the Secretary of State. For this month or this year, the on-call minister or midwife for all is Mr Milan Markovic, Minister for Local Self-Government. You want the State Administration Act, there's Mr. Milan Markovic, special connections with Republika Srpska, Mr. Milan Markovic. Is there jurisdiction in this government of the Republic of Serbia, shared responsibility? We have received a special relations agreement with Republika Srpska, a cheap political point that many authorities in Serbia have used since Republika Srpska existed, created thanks to the struggle of the Serb people and the desire to have their own state. The signatories of the Agreement aren't here in the O.R. The foreign minister is not in the O.R., as if you're ashamed of this agreement, as if the election campaign requires you to have such an agreement, and you can't explain, and what kind of agreement would you have when it's not exactly the taste of the Western powers you're putting your daily account to. So I consider this agreement a form of hypocrisy to the government of the Republic of Serbia. And I don't know how that urgency, when no one is working, when neither does the president of the assembly nor the entire government, the National Assembly confirms a special relationship agreement with the Republika Srpska, and let's say it doesn't discuss Kosovo and Metohija. Now, let's see what this agreement means. The basis of the political action of the SRS is that Republika Srpska is a Serbian state and that one day Serbia and Republika Srpska, if only Montenegro and the Republika Srpska Krajina would make up a state in the Balkans. It's our base of action. We will never tell you a word against co-operation with a Serbian state, which is temporarily not called Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia. There's no opposition to any agreement with us. Besides, you made this agreement in 2001, and there was an agreement before it. And it is not only a change in that another state is establishing it, and it is no longer the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it is a symbol of your rule; in 2001, a much larger state of Serbia concluded an agreement with Republika Srpska, a much smaller one. God forbid you stay in power for a while, you would offer us an even more recent agreement that would bind a smaller part of Serbia's territory with the Republika Srpska. There are several, and one very important member who has been changed and who should I ask now why this has changed, when Minister Markovic has no idea about it. I will ask the National Assembly if, in 2001, Article 2 provides that participants in the agreement will specifically achieve co-operation in defence areas in a completely transparent way, why in an agreement that the Republic of Serbia today signs with the Republika Srpska does not have that provision. Why Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia will not co-operate in defence affairs in a completely transparent way. The minister needs help, he needs the clerks to tell him why. This is a purely political story, ma'am, this isn't legal business. What do we need with a defense agreement with the National Guard of Ohio, and we don't have a defence agreement with Republika Srpska. The signatories are Tadic, Kostunica, Cavic, Dodik, who did not dress well here, nicely, to show Republika Srpska and Serbia that this is one big day, a lofty act, special relationships. What special connections? Since 2001, since you signed special ties, Republika Srpska has been sinking ever deeper. And we're some sort of guarantee of that Republika Srpska and we're a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement. And you're watching them destroy the full credibility of the military, the police, the political one that doesn't. You don't mind at all, you don't interfere with Republika Srpska at all, except to place US capital through our company, and that's why American companies here are getting some property, such as buying Telekom Republika Srpska. One day you will explain to me how good it is and how successful it is, and what we have given to the bank that actually financed it in Serbia at its disposal, so that we can make this big political move. Why do I miss Milorad Dodik here? Because he was at the Democratic Party's final convention, so he said, I want you to destroy the SRS in Serbia, as I destroyed in Republika Srpska. Such a man, who wants to destroy the SRS in Serbia, cannot sign a special relations agreement with Serbia. Because now with whom does Dodik sign this agreement? With Serbia, with Serbia's largest part representing the SRS, or Tadic or Kostunica. Did Milorad Dodik tell you, I'm signing this, but don't accidentally let radicals have special ties to Republika Srpska, but make sure you destroy them as soon as possible, as I destroyed them in Republika Srpska. Why is this agreement now that it's not an election campaign? You usually do it in an election campaign. Why today? There is neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the President of the Assembly in the country, and we are the most solemn officials. Which agreement is most important to us from the special relations agreement with Republika Srpska. Is there more important legislation, apart from the debate on Kosovo and Metohija, whether there is a more important act that brings the Assembly to this issue on special ties with the Republika Srpska. How important is it? As much as the government gives him importance. And the government of the duty minister, who told us that a thermopower plant would be built in Gacka, that the Association of Criminals signed an agreement and that it could still be crossed with a ID card into Republika Srpska. One thing you should know, who has good relations with Republika Srpska, he has no good relations with the Federation. The Federation does not make these good relations between Republika Srpska and Serbia, always holding them back, stop. This agreement is not better relations with the Federation, and they shouldn't be. Don't praise the Federation here. What a Federation, what they say about us, what they think of us, how they sued us. What they say we did to them, what good relations. If you committed genocide against a nation, how can you be his friend? Our associate is Republika Srpska, has not fought for all of her territory, has been kidnapped by the Dayton Agreement, and what remains, it must one day be an integral part of the Serbian country. It must not be stopped, and do not talk about it just in the campaign, but about talking every day. And this agreement should have one point that says, we'll do everything we can to create a common state someday. It's a special relationship agreement with Republika Srpska. Everything else is empty stories. Is your electric criminal going to be involved in a hydropower plant or a thermopower plant? What's he interested in? Will Hamovic take the money, whether it's this or that, it's special relations with the people. No, they're not. Special relations are for Serbia and Republika Srpska to be one state. This is what anyone wants to accomplish, let them bring the SRS to the signing of a special relationship agreement, and we will sign that agreement by hand. And we're going to go ahead, and we're going to congratulate whoever runs as a representative of the government on that initiative. But you don't have what it takes for a man to start something like that. You don't have the courage, you don't have the courage, you're distracted, you'd be willing to cooperate with the Republika Srpska, but don't make anyone angry. What do you care if you piss someone off if you cooperate with the Republika Srpska? What do you care if you piss someone off if you defend Kosovo and Metohija? What do you care if you piss someone off if you develop Serbia? But you have that limit, let me check out what these guys are saying that we were standing in line the other day and that they don't get mad at us. What is it for you Republika Srpska? Someone who needs to be associated with special relationships agreements or someone to live with together. How can we allow two Serbian states to be side by side, how? Look at what they're doing, tearing up parts of Serbia's territory to make a nation a single state. We have two Serbian states, we won't make one of them. What's stopping us? Yours or auto-censorship or external censorship. But tell us honestly here, how long are we going to rewrite these agreements, when we're going to do something about what this agreement is for? We can build a thermal power plant in Hawaii. Are those special relationships? You are now in stronger relations with Ohio than with the Republic of Serbia if you really adopt their markings, and you can't do it without the law. It wasn't just a matter of Parliament today. You run an army without law. Special Liaison Agreement: Is there a police force here, is there an army here, is there any common foreign affairs here, is there anything in common here? How can after six years be the same agreement, a copying agreement on special relations with Republika Srpska? Why don't you build it in these six years for at least one step higher? I guess these agreements serve to rise to a higher level. This is what you can do with Bulgaria, first thing tomorrow. All that says here can be done with Bulgaria, because there is no defence, no police protection, no co-operation. Therefore, although the basis of our action is the unification of Serbian states, until we fight to submit such an agreement to you for ratification, we will not participate in your games. Especially not in games you don't want to be in. Even the president of the assembly didn't want to come here today to run this session. And he should not have pissed off the big brother, leading a session deciding on special relations with the Republic of Serbia. No, it will fall upon you messengers. You voted for it. You don't deserve to be ministers, not deputy ministers, not assistants, not secretaries, you're MPs, you're a machine. If you were worth it, you'd be in the government. Since you're not worth anything, not enough to have ministers come here to represent you, to be in charge, you're all for voting. You will vote on a special relations agreement with the Republic of Serbia, and you do not know what that means. You won't ask anyone here what we've done in six years. We had an agreement. You're extending the importance of one piece of paper. If that is, and I end it, the story, that is, if you take Kosovo and Metohija, we will unite with the Republic of Serbia, say it here openly. Say it this way - we are uniting ourselves with the Republic of Serbia, and you cannot take from us Kosovo and Metohija. That's a real story. And that you're scaring someone here, so in some diplomatic offensive, you're threatening now that we and the Republika Srpska will, today, establish a much better relationship if they take away Kosovo and Metohija, so Republika Srpska may have a referendum. Does it say here that a referendum on the future of the common state will be held in Serbia and Republika Srpska? It doesn't say. You can't scare these papers or those that take away our Kosovo and the Metohija. You can scare away the debate about Kosovo and Metohija, with a unique attitude, a common attitude. Let there be dissonant tones, it does not matter, but to know to what extent any of us is prepared to defend the Republic of Serbia within the limits prescribed by the Constitution. Heavy hearts, because when the Republic of Serbia is concerned we can accept a lot and shut up, but the heavy hearts I'm telling you -- sign this without us, you're going to vote without us. If you are willing to make a new agreement with the Republic of Serbia, if we have partners there who are laughing, which will have at least two or three points, in which we will define in some period in the future the creation of a common state, then contact the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4368	Mr. Jovanovic, then Mr. Dacic. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure or as head of the club? He's like the head of the Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4369	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has not left us much room for a serious debate, and that is a devastating fact. Although I have nothing against you, Mr. Minister, I believe that it is a pointless situation for you, too, and that you did not want to send a message to the public of Serbia, the citizens of Republika Srpska or Bosnia and Herzegovina on the fact that we treat Republika Srpska as a single municipality of Serbia. This is one of the few agreements signed by both the president and the prime minister, which at the same time assume the obligation to actively implement the agreement. This Agreement shall set up, in Article 4, the work of the Council, which will work harder to implement the Agreement. We need them to discuss it. Not so many foreign ministers, because he couldn't tell us much more than you told us, but the president and the prime minister certainly did. They signed the agreement in September. Unfortunately, he is on track for an agreement signed with the Republika Srpska or with some other venues spoken of as political facts during the past, and they are today definitely not in the same way. This isn't an agreement, this is political manipulation. The means of an election campaign. This was the political need of the moment Republika Srpska was in September 2006, and, on the other hand, the political need of Vojislav Kostunica, who, among other things, tried through the demonstration to homogenise Serbia on its national issue by introducing a constitutional debate and a constitutional referendum. What is the problem with this agreement? Of course, from the LDP position, I don't think we can bypass the fact that this agreement does not define the mechanisms for the partnership of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, but also BiH. It is true that this agreement has its legal basis in the Dayton Agreement, but also today, 12 years after Dayton, it is obvious that a lot of new ideas, a lot of additional energy is needed, and that a different policy is needed, in order for what the Dayton established to further affirm, to develop in line with the needs of BiH citizens and citizens, Republika Srpska, every city, municipality, every family in that unfortunate country, for which we as Serbia are largely responsible. I think the objectives of the agreement here are protocol and confusion, that's phrases. Serbia's interest is not to build its relations with Republika Srpska in phrases. What does one of the objectives of the "development of transparent co-operation of executive, legislative and other institutions" agreement mean? How can co-operation happen anyway? How does parliament co-operate with another parliament, if not publicly, transparently, openly. Have we worked in any other way in any situation? What does the "development of institutional and all other forms of co-operation within the general political and economic conditions" agreement mean? It's a phrase again. A lot of general places deepen the crisis in which Republika Srpska is located, complicates our relations, leads to a problem in BiH, and practically for the position we get something that we allegedly want to fight, among other things, by adopting this agreement. If we think we're serious about Republika Srpska, we should listen to people in Republika Srpska. If we listen to people in Republika Srpska, then we will realize that their wish is not to destroy BiH, their wish is to affirm authentic interests in BiH's frameworks, and we should help them. I think this agreement is not what the Republic of Serbia needs at this time, and it is obvious that both the Government and the President of the Republic think so when they put parliament in a position to discuss such an important document as this agreement is. If such a thing has been done in the past, then that past is proof that we cannot repeat it today. As LDP, we have a big dilemma, in what way to contribute to normalisation of Serbia's, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations. Voting against this agreement is not a contribution, as it leaves the co-operation undefined, unarticulated and outside any legal document. Voting for the agreement is a vote for the kind of policy that abuses the tragedy of Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina and is trying to keep it alive by manipulating the most important national interests. Who decided in Serbia to invest 700m euros? It is a public company, 700m euros was an investment that was higher than the second-placed bid by 200m euros. Has anyone taken responsibility for such a thing or is Serbia richer by 200m euros than Austria? Who decided that another state-owned company also participates in privatisation, this time insurance in Republika Srpska? Whether we talked about it within any institution or whether it was political whims. If that's economically justified, let's have someone present it in a clear way, let the ministers appear here, and let's hear from them why what's done is good for the citizens of Republika Srpska and good for Serbia, good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, good for every man. But for the referendum, there are other topics, not defining relations with Bosnia or with the Republic of Serbia, entities and states that have been made on tens of thousands of human lives, and these human lives, today more obvious than ever, have been destroyed by irresponsible politics, a policy dedicated to personal goals, incompetent ambitions and hypocritical political parliaments. This is, as my predecessor said, among other things and hypocritically, five sides and nothing more. If you want us to support this law, that is. This agreement, explain to us why we should do it. If you are unable to explain why we should do this, we will explain when we win the elections and when we make an agreement that will offer clear answers for each of the problems this Parliament knows very well about, which it does not want to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4370	The word has the head of the SPS Parliament Club, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the topic we are discussing today is vital to our country and our people in general. These are Serbia's relations with Serbs who, a break in the former Yugoslavia, have remained to live outside the current territory of the Republic of Serbia. I join the protests of all those who believe that this topic deserved a more serious approach to this and, of course, it is not good that this much time has passed from the day of signing this agreement to its ratification in parliament. This is question number one for every country and every nation. You know that some parties in the past have been accused of the concept of "great Serbia", but this is the life issue of our people. Serbs who were the constituent people, Serbs who created the first, second and third Yugoslavia, became national minorities in independent states created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. Of course, it is true that the blame lies with the Serbian people themselves, because he was making a state with those who were never his brothers and because he was building a state and slaved to the concept of Yugoslavia, instead of creating a state that was limited to what he won by winning World War I. The collapse of the former Yugoslavia has made Serbs a national minority and therefore it is very important that the Republic of Serbia has a clear relationship with all Serbs living in the territory of the previous Yugoslavia. This relationship must be based on the issue of citizenship, so through all other rights that someone based on nationality has, of course, until the establishment of special and special relations that Serbia has with certain regions or, as it now stands in the Dayton Agreement, with entities should have. Republika Srpska is the first Serbian state through Drina. It's true, it was the Republika Srpska Krajina, I don't mean to compare which was created first or second, but I'm saying it's the first state in the history of the Serbian people to cross Drina. Is she a state or not? It will also depend on the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to that territory. That is why it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, because the SRJ is a signator of the Dayton Agreement, to defend and preserve the assets of the Dayton Agreement. Those who know what's going on in international relations see that the revision of the Dayton Agreement is in place. Trying to create a unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina, this has been discussed in several places in international organisations and institutions. Among other things, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also discussed. So, on the one hand, Serbia is trying to divide and tear up and is trying to take away Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand it is trying to choke Republika Srpska and create a single unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Serbia, every national minority is required to have the right to school, including here to speak in its own language, and in the Council of Europe it was said that it was exaggerated in documents with each entity having the right to its own particulars and even cultural, linguistic and all other. On the one hand, we are witnessing attempts to disperse Serbia and attempts to unitify Bosnia and Herzegovina, and abolish Republika Srpska. Our country is silent about that. Our state must stand decisively in the defence of Serbs through Drina, of course, and Serbs in Republika Srpska. Our country must demand that Croatia cannot enter the European Union until the return of Serbs to the Republika Srpska Krajina is ensured, until the return of property is ensured. It's the greatest genocide ever made after World War II. I don't underestimate any other crimes, but several hundred thousand people were expelled from Republika Srpska by state action. Today we want to establish good relations with Croatia, without looking back and we are still witnessing that Croatia is teaching us lessons in the field of human rights. On the other hand, we have Serbs in Montenegro. It is absolutely unacceptable for the Serbian minister, any, or Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister, to go to Podgorica without speaking to Serbs in Montenegro. The Serbs in Montenegro have at least a third. So it's absolutely unacceptable. Serbia must support Serbia's demands in Montenegro, requirements for speciality in Montenegro. Of course, Serbia must define what it wants in terms of citizenship. We all know well that there are two principles in terms of the acquisition of citizenship: the principle of soil and the principle of blood. All citizens have the right, but of course, there are countries in the world that no one declares to be nationalist, where every member of that people, wherever they live, has the right to citizenship. Every Serb, wherever he lives in the world, must have the right to Serbian citizenship. It can't stand a specific: all citizens of Montenegro. Not all citizens of Montenegro can be treated in the same way as members of the Serb people living in Montenegro. That's absolutely unacceptable. If Serbia behaves like this, you believe me, after the next census there will be more Serbs in Montenegro than Montenegrins. As for the Republic of Serbia, but also Serbia's parts of Montenegro, if the international community is seeking at all costs independence from Kosovo and Metohija, if Kosovo and Metohija are unilaterally declared independent, why should we not unilaterally declare the independence of Republika Srpska? Have you read that Russia is threatening to recognise unilaterally all others who want to join the Russian Federation without a UN Security Council decision? I know we're not the same as Russia, but we can at least threaten, Mr. Minister, not in advance to say we won't do anything. When people in Republika Srpska say, "We're looking for a referendum." We from Serbia say, not us but members of the ruling parties, no, Republika Srpska cannot organise a referendum. Why can't he? Under what rules and principles can Kosovo do so? By what international law? According to the actual law, according to the law of the state of the field. Republika Srpska is a Serbian creation. Therefore, my main concern with the state's leadership is, perhaps it bothers you when certain things are said by us who used to be in power, maybe you think it's not good for us to say it, I'm pleased to give you permission to say it for me. Speak freely, for this people have chosen you. Spread out and say, as you said about Kosovo and Metohija. When we said that, you put us on a pillar of shame. Say freely that you will even end diplomatic relations with some countries that unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija. Here, did you throw anything at me? Are you a representative of the government? You were elected by this assembly, ma'am, and I was chosen by the people of Serbia. The government was elected by the Parliament, and the government chose them. Where do you get the right to throw me when I speak? Who are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4372	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4373	I ask the chairman to protect the MPs from this authority's authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4374	I've already warned not to throw it to the MPs. Mr. Dacic, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4375	I don't know why you reacted. Did you react to what I said about breaking up diplomatic relations? I didn't say that, ma'am, that's what your Minister Vuk Jeremic said in front of MEPs of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, that the state has prepared six measures towards states that will unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija without a Security Council decision. I don't know which party you're from, are you from this one that's been notified or uninformed? Every time she starts to think that her goal is to get the discussion done as soon as possible, believe me, you're failing, I know from personal experience. So, don't worry about what the debate is going on, you're a Democrats, you've been struggling to argue freely here in parliament. Here, Mr. Micunovic spoke for two or three hours when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was formed and no one touched him. Imagine now that one of us here, like Fidel Castro, is talking for two hours. You can't wait to talk for 12 minutes. So just calm down and pull yourself together. I know that power is a temptation for everyone, absolute power is a particularly great temptation for everyone. Act as if you're already the future ex-government, because any government is the future ex-government. Don't complain later. When you're making a Rules of Procedure, you have to make it so that when you're in opposition in a few months, don't complain about it. Let me get back to the subject. As far as the agreement is concerned, I don't want to talk about it any further, the obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to support the Republic of Serbia, to defend it in case there is a request for its abolition. When you talk about Srebrenica, you must take special care that sometimes various convictions and confessing something that has been done do no harm to Republika Srpska. The legal interpretation that Bosniaks want to do is that it is created by genocide, based on genocide, and that is why it should be abolished. Therefore, all these questions should be carefully approached. Speaking of which, I think that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic spoke of it, if the Republic of Serbia helped genocide, if the Republic of Serbia, as he said, was partly and guilty of what was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then how come 57,000 people, who are not Serbs, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, during that same war, who are you saying we led it, come to Serbia and remain in Serbia after all? How's that? How did they go to those who were guilty of their grave fate? Why don't they go to Kosovo, which they don't go to Turkey, which they don't go to Croatia, but they come to Belgrade and the rest of them live here. No one's making them out of here. I only mention this as an example, because it is impossible for us to accuse ourselves of being complicit in some crimes, and on the other hand we received 57,000 non-Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a data that we all need to use more together in the performances we have in front of the international community. Republika Srpska is a form for which Serb blood fell in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Serbia was created by all of us together, and we, and the radicals, and you, ladies and gentlemen, because you too supported Karadzic and others to create the Republic of Serbia. After all, your parties are called the same. Therefore, when it is already created, we must fight to avoid all of this being just a story of the Republika Srpska Krajina. I would be very pleased if all parties on this matter had the same relationship as Kosovo and Metohija. Republika Srpska must have specific relations, it must have intimate relations with the Republic of Serbia. Both the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska should wait for a moment, when international relations will allow it to come to the unification of these two territories, without violence, but based on something that has acquired the right. And of course, if someone can constantly tear up the Republic of Serbia, why wouldn't the Republic of Serbia point out clearly some of its national goals. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a form of a Serbian, Croatian and Muslim people. These are the same peoples who created the former Yugoslavia, except Slovenians. So how does someone think that when the great Yugoslavia couldn't survive that little Yugoslavia would survive in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory? It can only survive by force, the next step is the force and abolition of Republika Srpska. That's why I call on the Serbian government to be aware of all this. This agreement is what it is because of international circumstances, but it must be ready to defend the Republic of Serbia, because it defends its people who live across the Drina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4376	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word has the head of the Vojvodjani MPs' club, Mr Nenad Canak, followed by Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group. Up to this moment the application for the word has been submitted by LDP, SPS, DS and SRS parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, since this subject is extremely serious, I would ask that we have full awareness of what we are talking about here and what are the consequences of what we are going to vote on today. I would remind you of what it says in this agreement on establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska establish special parallel relations based on the belief that a consistent, comprehensive and accelerated implementation of a general framework agreement for peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its annexes is the basis for creating conditions for the permanent co-existence of peoples and citizens in Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole; secondly, that the objective of establishing special parallel relations is fully in line with the peace agreement. Point 10 of Article 10 of the Peace Agreement states: "The SRJ and the Republic of BiH recognise each other as sovereign independent states within their international borders." So I would draw your attention that these two points of this agreement are in contradiction. They are in contradiction because, on the one hand, it is spoken of a consistent and accelerated implementation of this Agreement, I will call it the Dayton Agreement and, on the other hand, that the aim of this establishment of special relations is in line with this agreement. If so, we come up with one question: how is it thought to establish a relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, to retain the spirit of the Dayton Agreement on mutual recognition, when these two communities are not in an equal state legal position? The Republic of Serbia is currently an independent internationally recognised state, the Republika Srpska entity is part of BiH. So these are two different levels of state law status. With the direct establishment of these relations, we are in a position for Serbia to treat the Republic of Serbia and the Federation as two separate states, and this is already happening in practice. Students from Republika Srpska are educated as domestic students in Serbia, and students from the Federation do not. When travelling to BiH, if it enters Republika Srpska, it is enough to have only a ID card, and if it enters the Federation directly, say through the Sarajevo airport, it cannot be entered without passports. So the same man, entering the same country at two border crossings, enters in a different way. I'm telling you this for the following reason: remember where we are right now, what we are talking about now, and what are the main topics ahead of us. I would have to wonder how this assembly would react if, say, the Republic of Albania made such an agreement with Kosovo. It would certainly be a question of whether it is possible to establish a country with a part of the territory, with a province of another country, such a type of special relations in which we could allow citizens of Albania to enter Kosovo on the basis of that identification issued by Albanian authorities in Pristina, that is one thing. Secondly, in implementing the agreement, it is your second chapter, you have a Article 3 that says: "To implement the agreement, participants in the agreement establish a Council for Co-operation. This is bigger for co-operation than the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Republika Srpska and the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska." It is quite clear that this concept of forming this council clearly means that a state union is being formed and that is in line with what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, I am sorry that he is not here. His words that Republika Srpska is not temporarily referred to as Serbia, if I understand correctly – do I understand well, I am too pleased to finally understand something from your presentations – therefore, in the presentation of Mr Nikolic it was quite clear. Mr Dacic once again said that when we talk about Republika Srpska, I don't know which one in a row, the Serbian state via Drina. Did I understand, Mr. Dacic? So here we are talking about the state of Serbia being viewed as a state through its parliament, at least through some MPs in it. The view of Republika Srpska as a state fully legitimateises the ethnic principle of state formation and simply speaks of that, if this principle continues, it is in fact preparing only to divide Kosovo and to build a Serb province in northern Kosovo, and thus resolve this issue and continue to end borders in the Balkans on an ethnic basis. That way has so far cost the heads of an countless tens of thousands of people and will continue to characterise Serbia as a wartime wartime state. So I warn you that if you think about what I said you will see that the consequences of this agreement mean the legitimacy of Kosovo's independence, meaning the legitimacy of the further division of Kosovo, which is likely to take place if this continues, the legitimacy of Serbia's further isolation as a factor of instability in the Balkans. That's exactly why I can't understand, and here I fully agree with my predecessors, how it's possible that there's no, apart from the Honorable Prime Minister, here the Prime Minister and the others, who should give us political explanations about the meaning of this agreement, but now I guess it's pretty clear who's not allowed to look into the eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4378	Replica, Aleksandar Vucic, then head of the DSS MP club Milos Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4379	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of truth, the Serbian Radical Party, with all the objections it has made, will never be against the closest possible co-operation between Serbia and Republika Srpska, simply because it is about states, or whatever you want to call them the formations of the Serbian people, which are not related to historical, family and business ties. Since I don't know how we're connected, but the way we're connected, that's how we're connected to Republika Srpska. These aren't exactly historical relationships between us, these are the links of the future, Mr. Markovic, these are relationships within the same people, what kind of black historical relationships or what kind of a thing. As for Mr. Chanka, Mr. Chanak, you haven't read it carefully. It is just criticism on our part that they, in the agreement itself, repeat several times and stress the importance of only Bosnia and Herzegovina, neglecting the fact that it is not the good will of the Serbian people, but that it is an imposed solution on the outside. The Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina wanted to stay in the former Yugoslavia together with Serbs in Serbia, with Serbs in Montenegro, with Serbs in Serbia at the time. This right was not given to Serbs but occupied by the Republika Srpska Krajina, and then the Republika Srpska was taken away by part of the prerogatives of the authorities and the powers they had under the Dayton Agreement. You're saying that the National Assembly would react if Albania did something similar. Mr. Canak, Albania, the United States and the European Union every day, but every divine day, they break the Charter of the United Nations, and Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, and all international public norms, calling on all of us to accept their pressures to gain independence from Kosovo. Is that a fact? Is that what Ollie Rehn from the European Union is looking for? Search. Is Solana looking for Kosovo's independence? Search. Is he looking for Fried, what's his name, the ugliest of all that comes? So I remembered it, but anyway, it doesn't matter, it's important that some occupier, some official of occupation, doesn't matter what it is or how it is. Every day you are asked to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Now I ask you - and what it is when someone says one moment, so listen, do we have the right to live with the Republika Srpska at some point, to hope, or, if you can't, at least not to abolish the Republika Srpska, to be a self-involved entity, as it is under the Dayton Agreement, at least that agreement, which is bad for the Serbs, to respect. No, I don't. Republika Srpska can't. You heard the argument. She says, well, she can't because she's created on genocide. What genocide? My cousin's victims? They weren't just silver victims in that war. Nearly 10,000 Serbs were killed around Sarajevo, from Ilias, Vogosce, Ilija, Hadzic, coat of arms and all other places. Let's not talk about what happened to the Sanhedrin Bridge, the Key, the Kupres, Bugoin and many other places. Not to mention what happened in Podrinj or Ozren, where they cut off the heads of the Serbs. It's like someone wants to forget, just like you. To remind you, it is so important for this government and the authorities to care about this agreement that three nights ago, five ministers were at a private reception, according to TV B 92, by German Ambassador Andreas Cobel, in a man who not only advocated independent Kosovo but also for an independent Sandzak, as he calls Raška area, an independent Vojvodina in the future and announced to you big Europeans, the entry into the European Union in 2032. You've had time for that, but you haven't had time to go to Bratunac tomorrow morning to mention your cousin's victims, to mention the people whose family members slaughtered Oric's Srebrenica butchers. For that, no political party, apart from the Serbian Radical Party, had time. For elemental respect for Serbian victims, there was no representative of the Serbian Parliament, no Serbian government minister, no one from the cabinet of Serbia's president. It's a Serbian disgrace. So today we have to talk about these things, about historical relationships; listen, historical relationships with our people, the same people. We'll see and do everything possible in the future, we can't do it now, even if it's 50 years from now, any time, that we live together, and no one will ever be able to separate us from the Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4380	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Ambassador Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4381	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in which an explanation is sought if someone doesn't understand. I'd just like to explain my words. First, when I was talking about something like that, I was talking about forming this type of council, as it's called here, which is practically para-state leadership or super-state leadership, call whatever you want. In that sense, I think it is entirely irrelevant to talk about some further topics of this type, because Mr Nikolic mentioned in his presentation the absence of a military aspect of co-operation. The military aspect of co-operation existed. I would like to remind you that in 2000, when Vojislav Kostunica was the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 1,600 Republika Srpska officers were on the budget of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and that many transformations have occurred quite non-transparently since then, is that right now in Serbia and Republika Srpska, Mr Micunovic. So you should look through all that and what I've been saying. It is a dangerous precedent, and I think it would be far wiser to establish special relations between Republika Srpska and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, because it is the level at which regional co-operation can be discussed. Interstate co-operation is a dangerous precedent that can be struck very quickly and very hard by our heads. That's all I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4382	Replica, MP Ivica Dacic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4383	I'd just like to explain what Mr. Canak has asked as a question. It is true that Republika Srpska is the first, or let's not use the term first, but perhaps in some way, after the formation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and former Yugoslavia, Tito's Yugoslavia, perhaps the first formation to survive as some yet internationally recognised entity and redefined by the Dayton Agreement. The Dayton Agreement was signed because it was no longer anywhere, because it could no longer break up the former Yugoslavia according to the national principle and protect Bosnia and Herzegovina by civil principle. That's absolutely impossible. I would remind you that when the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians were created, it was a unitary state. She became a federal state only in 1945. On the other hand, in Tito's Yugoslavia, Serbs were a constituent people in Croatia, in the Croatian Constitution and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the 1990s, they were expelled from the Constitution of Croatia as a constituent nation. That's what you forget. I know, Mr. Canak, that you are looking for a return to the 1974 Constitution for the autonomy of Vojvodina, but let's ask for the return of Serbs to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a constituent nation. Today, of course, there aren't that many of them, so someone can say that, since they're not there, we've solved the problem of national minorities. So there's no threat here. In addition, late Prime Minister Djindjic visited Republika Srpska in the last days of his life and his rule. When he went to Republika Srpska for him was attempted assassination, it seems to me it was then at the Limes hall. Why did he go there? After all, you too were the first to renew the agreements we made with Republika Srpska after 2000. And besides, you've been together making parties that were so-called. At the very end, the SPS will vote to ratify this agreement. We're not threatening anyone, we're just saying, if someone is trying to kidnap Kosovo, he has to be aware that he opens Pandora's box and can't open Kosovo with one hand and the other hand close the Republic of Serbia. It can't and you have to tell them from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because if we tell them, they'll think someone who is now in some way a member of the former government is speaking. Since you are still in power, so soon you will be representatives of the former government, and at least while you are in power, tell everyone as you have spoken these days, at least in Strasbourg when we were in the Parliamentary Assembly, no one has the right to make a precedent out of Kosovo. Here, take Montenegro, Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, said, has agreed with Montenegro to be restrained during Kosovo and Metohija. My people, what are we talking about? When was Montenegro held back in its history? I really don't know what the great heroes of Montenegro are singing about if they move on to restraint now. Is there one heroic, heroic Montenegrin song that is not against Albanians, Turks, Croats or anyone else, or that there is one that is against Serbs, and they are now restrained? You want us to be held back against such Montenegrin leadership. We can't be held back. So, Montenegro is another country for us, but Serbs in Montenegro and Montenegro must have their rights and have the right to Serbian citizenship here, as well as Serbs from Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska. It is not great Germany because it has given the right to all Germans to have citizenship because they are Germans. No one can blame the Serbs. I know it may bother someone here, but I do know that some of our former SPS voters will be bothered by it, because we have once been slaves to the concept of the civil state, so Slobodan Milosevic made Serbia's first constitution that Serbia is a civil state. In the end, you accused him of being the greatest war criminal and of doing the most he could against the national minorities. We can't court anyone. Serbia is also called Serbia because it is the state of the Serbian people. Otherwise, it would be called "citizen" if, by your concept, it were the state of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4384	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4385	Since Mr Dacic and I obviously did not understand, your concept, Mr Dacic, has already been mentioned several times over the fact that all Serbs should be granted Serbian citizenship. I must draw attention to you that, regardless of the various precedents, the world is toplessly undemocratic that someone can decide how to live somewhere he doesn't live. That's exactly the whole thing. People must decide where and how they will live, and hence only Serbian citizens should be those who will vote on their law-making representatives, under whom those who voted will live. Examples from other countries, such as Croatia, where New Zealand was voted in Croatia, are completely incorrect. Then you're sitting in New Zealand, making decisions about how people will live where you don't live. By doing so, you have rights that are simply not limited to you, and you do not suffer the consequences of your decision. All my life is making decisions and living with their consequences. There are no consequences here, and I don't think it should be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4386	Hansel Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4387	It's obvious Mr. Canak and I didn't understand each other, so let me explain a little more what I wanted to say. So, I think it's very important for everyone, you don't have to deny anyone the right to be informed. So when I was talking about the right of all Serbs to get Serbian citizenship, I didn't talk about it, and I didn't just mean that these citizens, or Serbian citizens, would have the right to vote. After all, you've been here all along, until you've come to power, that everyone has the right to vote, and now it looks like they should only have the right to vote on those you'll know in advance for you. This isn't about that. You know that the right to vote is not only obtained by citizenship. Other conditions are needed. A place to live and everything. So, no, I know you voted wrong once, so hold hands afterwards, but in any case, citizenship alone doesn't mean that someone will have the right to exercise electoral rights. You know, Milan Panic, when he was a candidate for president, a famous, political decision by Milosevic, was given the right to be a candidate, because we advised him then from the SPS leadership that he should overcome and that in some way break the law, because Panic would later complain that he was not allowed to be a candidate, because he was a citizen, but he had no residence in the territory of this country. But well, he had you as his support. Well, well, what do you do, anyway, it's possible that we're making some precedents now, or are you afraid that someone from that... After all, you've given the right and now our entire diaspora some way to vote, and I don't think it votes one percent, two percent, as much as it votes in these elections. Anyway, I think it's symbolic and statusally important that people have the right to citizenship. Of course, all other laws and other things can be arranged to achieve everything that arises from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4388	National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-Nova Srbija-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4389	The agreement ahead of us, i.e. The bill on confirming the agreement should certainly be adopted because it is our opinion that it is in Serbia's best interests. We need to remember a little bit what Bosnia and Herzegovina is today, how it came to be. It was created in a constitutional and legal sense by imposing the Dayton Agreement, a peace agreement from the time that ended the armed conflict. The peace agreement was not designed so that all parties in conflict would be happy, especially not made so that the Serbian side would be happy. But it was made and based on another document, which became an integral part of the international legal order and in which we today, as we trust in the UN Charter, so we trust that document. These are the findings of the Badenter Commission, which decided that the former Yugoslavia's desolution would end by forming new states in the area of the former Yugoslavia, which would have internationally defined borders, identical to those of Tito's regime after 1945, formed in space already now in the former Yugoslavia. Is this a fair solution, in my deep conviction, but it has become an integral part of the international legal order, that we do not go back to the end of all the events that preceded it. At this point, we need to know and make a very clear distinction between things, when we speak on the one hand about Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, compared to Bosnia and Herzegovina as a set of entities, on the other. Serbs in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina are the constituent people of these formations, regardless of whether the formation exists for itself, whether it is capable of living on its own or existing on apparatus supported by the international community by its own military presence. It's irrelevant to this court at this point. So they represent the constituent people. In Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs are also a constituent nation in Serbia's own state, and Albanians are a national minority. That's a huge and first difference. The second difference is, as regards Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, entities are based on the international legal act sui generis, and the situation of Kosovo and Metohija is part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Serbia and no one else. These two basic things distinguish between these two situations and, in that sense, they should not be marred, until that moment, while someone on the outside of this country, someone who considers himself capable and willing to speak on behalf of the international order, and we often hear such statements from officials of the United States today, from officials of some other European states, I hope, all or a vast majority of us are fighting, and that is to reciprocate the provisions of the international legal order that include the conclusions of the Badenter Commission, among other things. Therefore, if the line is crossed at least at one point, it is said that none of Serbia's officials or politicians in Serbia can expect respect for the conclusions of the Badenter Commission's decisions when it comes to the rest of the former Yugoslavia's space. So much for that. As far as I'm concerned, she's using this deal, she's multiple. On the one hand, it is based on respect for the peace agreement, because in that sense we have no choice, whether anyone likes it or not. On the other hand, the right under the same peace agreement, from the same constitutional order, is being applied to establish special parallel links between Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not saying that this agreement is exhausting to the end, but it's well-achieved by this agreement. I'm not saying that I might not want these relationships to be bigger, more complex and different than those shown in this agreement, but what's shown in this agreement is what's possible and what's possible is what needs to be used. We can't be against this, which doesn't rule out the possibility of these relationships being deeper and more meaningful in some future period. But that's what we have ahead of us, and I certainly can't understand anyone who would be against this, especially those who, as an argument, highlight the parallelism between Kosovo and Republika Srpska. Because this parallelism at this level, if international rules and principles are respected, can't be. I think it is incomprehensible to me at all that those representatives of those political parties who made those arguments against this agreement, and especially if they were making those arguments that they were saying - that such an agreement violates the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, my God, because the Republic of Serbia allegedly does not have the right to do so. It is rightly established by international documents, and it is irrelevant whether it is the Republic of Serbia, as heir to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or whether it is the Republic of Serbia as the former part of that same federal formation. It is completely irrelevant for the achievement of this agreement and it is from that aspect formally-legal absolutely based. On the other hand, this is the only way to meet the essential interest of the Republic of Serbia, which is to take care of the representatives of its people. Those people who plead as Serbs, who are therefore part of that people who represent the constituent people and the Republic of Serbia themselves, to make certain interests come true. These interests are common, and if such interests exist, they are at the same time the interests of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, someone here has already spoken, there are trends that we are witnessing, that Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities simply be abolished in the way they exist under the peace agreement, under the Dayton Peace Agreement, which I find extremely bad. It's not only extremely bad, it can have very, very tragic consequences. I simply don't mind that an internationally recognised creation, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, has something called internal functionality. It is useful for all members, for all entities and citizens living in these entities, but it cannot be at the heart of those minimal interests that have been defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is why this agreement has also been accepted, no matter what I think or what one of us may think about the very content and extent of those rights which have been defined by that agreement. Therefore, the establishment of special parallel links between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska is in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia and the best interest of Republika Srpska. At the same time, I am deeply convinced that it is also in the best interest of all entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is one of the ways in which, if there is serious will between those entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can support prosperity and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the only way we can see at this point and that can reconcile those two things. Otherwise, there is no other solution. So, I believe, the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia believe this agreement must be confirmed in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4390	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Liberal Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4391	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Although the Dayton Agreement no doubt allows the signing of such an agreement, although there is a strong interest in Serbia to have more intense and useful ties with all the countries in the environment, although this agreement was signed in 2001, while at the initiative of the then federal government, the then president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was ratified by the Federal Parliament, meaning it was not something the Republic government did, although there are good relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, it seems to me that political correctness would require that this same agreement be offered to the Federation. There's not a single real reason, or even that famous one that appears here, that I wouldn't use and I don't think he's in his place, and that's an ethnic principle. I must warn you that there are also members of our people in the Federation and not a small number. Some are also in high state functions. The deal would spread doubt, though all of this is allowed under the Dayton Agreement, although there is a benefit for Serbian and Republika Srpska citizens, that here wants to improve relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. What some Federation politician, or Sarajevo, declares, does not need to be particularly interested in this assembly. They have their own political parties, representatives, political struggles, and of course it's something that happens in every country. But the interest of people living in the Federation is also to develop relations with countries in the region. One of the most controversial consequences of the government of Franjo Tudjman is the fact that he is also part of his policy, which is no longer Croatia's official policy for a long time, tried and achieved that there are special relations with formerly so-called. by producing Herceg-Bosnia that no longer exists, by offering citizenship to Croats living in Herzegovina, by providing them with the right to vote in elections in Croatia and so on. I think there's a lot of interest and that wisdom and reason would ask for such an agreement to be offered to the other side. Otherwise, it can truly be understood and will be seen by many as the ethnic principle of integration in the Balkans. The ethnic principle is also legitimate, it is also possible, but because of the nature of what the Balkan states are, at least most, producing many problems. I want to remind you, and with that I end up, that people here would be very sensitive if ethnic agreements were signed, for example. With a Romanian community in Serbia, with a Bulgarian community in Serbia, with a Hungarian community in Serbia, with a Croat community in Serbia, I am not equating it with a situation that is in BiH, I am not equating, but I say it is better to offer this agreement and to the Federation. If he wants to sign it, he should sign it, and if he doesn't want to, it will make its arguments, and without arguments, but it would simply create a different climate in relations between Balkan states, especially in the areas of the former Yugoslavia. No matter what is called a special parallel relationship agreement with the RS, there is no reason not to propose one agreement with the Federation and that these anomalies that Canak was talking about, that they enter into one part with the ID card, and in the other part with the passport, that all of this is eliminated in some way and that all of this is managed gradually to create normal relations with all countries in the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4392	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vucic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, has known you, since the founding of the 1990s, always stood up for the unity of the Serb people and has always wanted to establish the best possible relationship with all Serbs, wherever they live. The issue on the agenda today is not a matter of our country's serious and responsible relationship to RS, nor is it because, as you can see, there are no representatives of the regime in this room, not from the government, not from the ranks of MPs, not a total of 20, so many of them are interested in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. The key question here is whether we are doing this for our people in the Republic of Serbia, whether this gets something of our people in Republika Srpska or whether something of our state or whatever you call these two forms of this agreement is getting. Maybe someone gets a media promotion, maybe someone can boast they want well for Republika Srpska, but I haven't noticed that there are any more serious implications for the adoption and adoption of this agreement. The whole agreement is based on the fact that, starting from territorial integrity, respect for sovereignty and political independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we now want to have ties in education, economic and any other sphere with Republika Srpska. That's what we have to do with all the countries we have diplomatic relations with. So absolutely with all the countries on all these issues we're talking about, and we're agreeing on all these issues. It's a good thing Serbia is still, and it's the only good part of everything we're talking about today, which, after denying both Republika Srpska and the existence of Republika Srpska and our people west of Drina and Danube by part or most DOS parties, has come to a different position, it's a good thing that no one thinks of setting up blockades on Drina anymore. But what's bad is that you only remember it when it takes a political point. To remind you of the words from the election campaign Milorad Dodik, we are ready to organise a referendum in RS and are ready to unite with Serbia. The same day, meetings were organised with Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica and other members of the regime. By the way, this Milorad Dodik wasn't just at DS meetings, he was at the DSS and the G17 Plus rally. He wished everyone victory, I didn't just understand who he was rooting for, except I realized he was rooting against the Serb people, against the Serbs in general. So, the world ended, the elections ended, which would be the story of a referendum, which would be the story of bringing the two Serbian states closer together and what would make the citizens of the RS and Serbian citizens feel that kind of improvement, which is what a new quality will be given to people in both Serbia and RS. After all, it turned out nothing. Those in RS, like our children in Serbia, must learn from books in which they will write, I don't know, the great reformer Zoran Djindjic and the great dictator Slobodan Milosevic, or I don't know who. Is that co-operation? Is that what you're offering RS citizens? And how they have to love BiH as their neighbor, so you haven't convinced them. Today, we also have some voices of reason in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which explain, don't, some will get angry. Who's gonna get mad? There are no Serbs in Republika Srpska and we are talking about it openly. There is no Serb in Republika Srpska and I don't mean literally, but metaphorically, therefore, 99% of Serbs think what I'm talking about. Those people not to love Bosnia and Herzegovina, they hate Bosnia and Herzegovina as a political creation. It's just a blind man doesn't see the one who doesn't want to see it. Serbs hate Bosnia and Herzegovina's political formation, they love geographical Bosnia and Herzegovina. They hate the legal-political structure that has been politically imposed on them. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia play a football match in Sarajevo at the Kosovo Stadium, cheers our people from Republika Srpska for Serbia, the stands include Serbs who are forced to be in Bosnia and Herzegovina and cheer for Serbia. Don't you notice? They are the same, every Serb from Banja Luka, Trebinj and Bijeljina loves Belgrade and loves Serbia, just as we are born in Belgrade, and we love Kosovo and Metohija, of course. We, that is to say, love both Bijeljina and Trebinje, and Banja Luka and every part of Republika Srpska, just like Belgrade, Piroth, Subotica or any other place in our country. I guess it's a normal relationship, I guess it's something that's completely natural. There's nothing more reasonable than that. We didn't get anything out of this after all. We are told by a representative of the regime here, the local self-government minister, I guess he's got better things to do, so he went out, he says, this agreement has been approved by an international representative, a high representative of the international community. I guess that's what they're saying, that he's a bit of a senior occupation official and then they call him a high representative. Those lower occupation officials who command them mostly, they don't have that special name, and that high-profile official, that means I have to listen to him, because he can replace whoever he wants, he can command whatever he wants, and he can do whatever he wants. That's what needs to change in our relationship, which needs to be honest with the citizens and what people need to know about. Tell the people, we have a problem, the occupier does not allow us, occupied Republika Srpska as is Serbia. In one way or another, a little more perfidious just and with a little less living occupation force, and there's no fundamental difference. Tell us the occupier won't let us, but not to tell us, we have reason to cooperate with them, but we have to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina; no, we have our interests and interests of our people. If the occupier won't let us know who you are, whether they're your friends, whether they're yours from the EU. As I understand it, this Lajcak, who is today a high representative, means, a high act of occupation to him, so I didn't notice that he advocates helping the Serbian people, but I see a shifting all living, making some new state in Potocari. It hijacks part of Republika Srpska's territory, reducing Republika Srpska's territory, guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement. Neither did we, as representatives of any other political party from the SRS, saw you come to Bratunac or any other site, but I am talking about Bratunac because it was the other day, to express your condolences for 12 years from the terrible massacre that the Muslims committed against the Serbs. It wasn't that high-occupied officer that was interested. No one is interested in these Serbs, no one is interested in the mother of Salesanovic, who lost her son. What do they care? Lost her son. How many mothers lost two sons, Svetozar and Stojan in the Kravicas. What you're going to do, it doesn't interest anyone, because Svetozar and Stojan have names like that. If they had any other names, then they would be interested, both you and them, and your president, who would apologize to them, and your occupational and low and high-ranking employers, who would tell you that you have to apologize to them. Here's the question of citizenship. Don't tell me you didn't have time for a cousin, because I saw you all right at Mr. Cobell's private reception last night, at 10:15 p.m., you were at his place, this was at half past nine in the morning. Maybe you stayed with him a little longer, so that's why you didn't have time for a cousin. Next, as far as citizenship is concerned, I know why you're not comfortable with the story of citizenship and you're not telling us nonsense stories about Herceg Bosnia. Why don't you say that today in West Mostar, Broad Beach, all the way to Livna, Duvna, whatever place you want, it's just being paid in kunas, a converting brand that they have to take sometimes. Croatian Kuna is a means of payment. Why don't you say there's only a Croatian flag in every place? Why don't you say that these people are voting in the elections for the Croatian Parliament because their country is the queen of Croatia. They see her as their own, even though they live in space today by some artificially created states. They decide Croatia's fate, because every Croatia, whatever its creation, must take care of the Bosnian-Herzegovina Croats. Only the Serbian state doesn't do that. What kind of people are we? We don't respect our victims. We don't care if 3,500 Serbs are killed. None of the government representatives were in Bratunc, there was no president of Serbia, no political party other than the SRS. Look, we're saying now -- let's say they have the right to vote people in Republika Srpska. I know why you won't do it. You won't because 80, if I didn't say 90% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would vote for the SRS, because you know it would be exactly that small sauce on the scale that would contribute to a complete, convincing and absolute victory of the SRS. That's the key reason. Tell that to the citizens of Serbia. Tell Serbian citizens that you are doing the same with Serbs in Montenegro. Someone just mentioned their abstention. No, it's worse. On the first occasion, Rocen said "abstainment," and then they were dissatisfied with Rocen's statement until the end, so they let some other officials go, when that unfortunate man went down to promote Montenegrin independence in Budva, to the Rollingstones concert, because he couldn't wait in Belgrade for the Concert. Djelic or whatever his name is. So, he is told, not only will they be restrained, but he will make the same decision as the occupier makes, that is, what the EU and the United States are making. So, Montenegro stands for today, your friends in Montenegro, in Montenegro's regime, are pushing for an independent Kosovo, and they are not hiding it. And then someone wonders, and says -- how we want to help only the Serbs in Montenegro; not only to help those who advocate independent Kosovo. It is our obligation to help Serbs in Montenegro, the Serbian people. Serbs must have free schooling in Belgrade, not those who are for independent Kosovo and who want to destroy the Serbian state. Take care of it. It's not a principle that doesn't exist everywhere in the world, it's a principle that all countries of the civilized world respect. We're not asking for anything more than others, we just want to take care of our people, we just want to make some decisions. You tell us, ladies and gentlemen, he says, in information we're going to improve co-operation. What are you looking at? In ordering all television stations to lift the map of Republika Srpska, not to be seen as the sun or rain in Republika Srpska, not to know whether tomorrow will be 25 degrees in Banja Luka or 15 degrees, because you have ordered it, because tomorrow you will do so with Kosovo's withdrawal from Serbia's borders, immediately on some televisions in Belgrade, as soon as any country recognises Kosovo's unilateral independence and Metohija. That's what we're different about. In the fact that we truly want to be with our people, that we want to fix and improve the lives of both the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Republika Srpska, that we live together, that there are no differences between us, the same torments, are the same ones who want to destroy both Serbia and Republika Srpska. We live in the same space. Do you really think there is some difference between the Serb from Mali Zvornik and the Serb from Love, and the Serb from Bratunac, and the Serb from Bajina Basta or Visegrad. There isn't. I didn't see that difference. I didn't see that difference, let me tell you right now, between my father and my mother, one on this side, the other on the other side of Drina's origin. Do not artificially make that border either, but make it in any way possible for the nearest relations, not for historical ties, but for future ties, because this is our obligation to our children, according to the future of Serbia, according to the children of Republika Srpska, according to the future of Republika Srpska. Long live Serbia and lived Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4394	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Mr. Vucic and Mr. Todorovic for an unintentioned failure in pronunciating the function.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 226, I wanted Mr Milan Markovic, a minister who is not present at the moment, but is responsible for this point by the Government... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: We didn't win.) )......................................................................................................... I suppose it gives us an answer as to whether the same agreement as today's agenda, Republika Srpska will conclude in three months with the Republic of Croatia. I think from the position of Republika Srpska and its future, that's normal, but I think that information would make it a little confusing to compete in the patriotism we're attending here. So does the Republic of Serbia intend to conclude an identical agreement on special parallel relations with the Republic of Croatia in early autumn? That's one question I want answered. As long as I'm here, I'd like an answer from the minister of justice, or the High Council of Justice, as long as the state prosecutor in Serbia is going to be a pensioner? The man who turned out to be a working man on December 10th 2005 remains a Republic Public Prosecutor. I know he serves various needs and interests of political nature. It was he who decided to lift the warrants for Mira Markovic and some other people, but the shame and shame for one country that a man who is under the imperative provision of Article 39. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the completion of the working century, was due to retire because his mandate had ceased and no one, nor the National Assembly, could extend it to him, continues to figure in that place. Worse still, I am speaking primarily to DS MPs, in a matter of days, on July 23rd, the special prosecutor's mandate for organised crime stands out. He's called the Republic Public Prosecutor. Slobodan Jankovic has been retired for almost two years. Will you allow it, too, because you can influence it? Another parallel - what if, God forbid, Slobodan Jankovic died, and the Assembly didn't realize it? Prosecutor Radovanovic died, some other judges and prosecutors died, never found it, were they still judges and prosecutors? Enough farce in this House. I have submitted a request, as DHSS's MP within the LDP parliamentary group, to urgently meet the Justice Committee and to have this farce interrupted. I remind you, the High Council of Justice, when Slobodan Jankovic launched an initiative last year to get rid of Third Municipal Prosecutor Gordana Colic, said, he can't do it, he's a pensioner. Can a pensioner set up a special prosecutor? It's nowhere in the world. I apologize for interrupting this patriotic contest, but this is a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4396	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4397	Patriotism is not athletic discipline: either you have it in your heart or you don't have it. So there's no competition in it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS will vote to ratify this agreement, which has a foothold both in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in point 3. The Dayton Agreement, which exactly says under a) that entities have the right to special relations with neighbouring countries and that is not disputed. For the SPS, Drina was never a border, it was always the backbone of the Serb people. I knew you'd say that, that's why I said this. Thank you for reacting like that. So, I'd like to ask my distinguished colleagues, there are five hours, a pay phone per Rules of Procedure was given to the MPs, so for the SPS, Drina is the backbone of the Serbian people, that's what I was going to say. If that bothers anyone, let them explain. What I'm trying to say is that it's not unusual for one country to sign agreements like this and it would be good if there were more with others. I remind you that at this moment in some former republics of Yugoslavia, such as Macedonia, there are 100,000 Serbs living around Kumanov in Skopje, Montenegro. That a lower diplomatic official in our embassy, whose name I cannot mention, did not make a problem for him, gave 200 euros in private the other day to one Macedonian to collect several bones and skulls at the Serb military Kumanov cemetery, that the ambassador was not interested and that no one in this country was interested. In some other countries, too, around the country, our diplomacy does nothing to make historical monuments, the cultural values of this country and this people appropriate. It's a shame. It would be good if the foreign minister were here today to ask him that, but there will be opportunities, I hope, to answer these questions. What do special relationships mean? A lot of things. I would like to remind you that the minister of education in the DOS government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, has abolished the lecture in Serbia, for example, Peter Kocic. So, children in Serbia today don't learn either "The Badger in front of the Court", or anything Peter Kocic wrote. I believe he resented them most by saying "Jablan and Rudonja," because it's not possible for a poor grandmother to outsmart, as it is said, in her own hands. So, to return Peter Kocic to the lecturer, so it will be one of the unwritten members of this agreement, to return to the lecturer and Stevan Sremac, because you also threw him out here, and to return Mihajlo Lalic, too, because you threw him out. But that's usually the manner of these days, the Kachinski brothers from Poland and high school students, they kicked Dostoyevsky, Kafku and Gete. I guess that's the contribution to the Europeanisation of the Polish state, and I believe that analogy is also worth it here. There are a few questions we shouldn't even be talking about here. However anyone wants to interpret it, if one day Republika Srpska becomes a state in full capacity, it would really be the first time in history that a new state has created itself west of the queen, and that is very important. However it will be shaped and criticised today, it is important to say that the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people did what was only possible at one historic moment, and whether there were any mistakes, whether more could have been done, whether at that time they violated the relevant norms, the judges of history. Any normal state would act in the same way or in a similar way. We should not have any complex because of it, on the contrary, only hundreds of theatres, in which Serbian people meet their cultural needs, only two have the name Serbian National Theatre, it is Novi Sad and it is Banja Luka. That's not an accident. So it's important that they believe that people on the other side of Drina believe that the state of Serbia is their queen. If that faith is lost, there is neither for them nor for us any perspective in the future. I don't think that's gonna happen. I believe that everything that a nation does to the people will be able to secure strong ties in the future, that people here are educated, that they work here, that we travel there, that there is economic co-operation. I wouldn't be so harshly critical of what's going on in that thing, if there's any criminal activities, then that's another question. So, I would be pleased if this country could buy some other important buildings that Serbia was building, so they're no longer called its ports, such as the Barr port and much more. For Serbia, it must be no burden to accept an agreement with Republika Srpska, which its assembly has already adopted. On the contrary, it should be an obligation for this parliament and for all others to deepen these ties, to establish, maintain and improve co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska at the highest possible level, but also for all other parts of the Serb people, and for all others who are interested, it is a matter of diplomacy, it is not a question of this policy that I am talking about here. In that sense, the SPS MPs will support this agreement, its ratification. I also have objections concerning that member who used to be there, and now he's gone and he's talking about who's going to defend him if the tough days come, but I believe it doesn't have to be signed in. It's either written in the heart, or it's not. So, if hard days come once, I hope they don't, then that question shouldn't be put on the agenda in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4398	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4399	Today, twice the dignity of the National Assembly was injured, first at 10.00 p.m., when you told us that the Government of the 13th had informed the National Assembly that it was Prime Minister Milan Markovic. We haven't gotten that notice yet. Meanwhile, we received a report from the Legislative Committee, which was held on 16. I can't figure out how you organized the service that we didn't have a document that arrived on the 13th at the office, and we got a document that arrived at the office on 16th. Please, while you're deluding the People's Messengers, do it a little bit in secret. We're not that many idiots to tell us at 10.00 hours that we got a notice, and at half-one we still don't have that notice. To whom is this notice sent, to him who guides the congregation or the people's messengers? That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm happy when Mr. Baralic says that the SPS Drina is not the limit. I consider that a good attitude, but it was supposed to be in 1995, Mr. Baralic. Then it wouldn't be necessary for us to protest in Loznica on 4 May 1995, which we called "Drina There will be no border," and we almost got killed by the SWAT bridge because we conventionally crossed the bridge to show that Drina is not the border. Troubles arose when it came to the Vens-Oven plan, which Republika Srpska refused to accept, and was pressured by Serbia to accept it. Since then, blackmail, pressure and blockades of Republika Srpska have begun. The blockade was the worst in 1995. You know that very well. Many things in Dayton would be different if Republika Srpska had full help from Serbia and had not been blocked before. I therefore accept that this is a good view of the SPS, but that it was very negative from 1993 to 1995, when it directly influenced Republika Srpska's fate. One more thing, if you say the defense is meant, so it doesn't have to write, so special relationships are understood. Then why are we writing a special relationship agreement? Then everything is understood. If it's understood that in defense we'll go unwritten to each other to help, we'll probably go into culture. So why write that in culture we're going to go to each other's aids and not write what's most important? So, as far as we're concerned, this isn't a good deal. Whoever wanted to sign the agreement with Republika Srpska could consult the Serbian Parliament, so he could say: what do you think should be an integral part of the agreement? This is how we're like kids. There are no amendments to this. Take it or leave it. In the campaign we signed an agreement with Republika Srpska, one year later we give it to you for ratification: take it or leave it. If you won't take it, you're a traitor, you don't like Republika Srpska. If you're asking that it contains everything you need, you can't fix it in any way. It is very dangerous to accept and vote in favour of the agreements this ruling coalition makes. There's not a shred of patriotism and you know it very well. Trunct patriotism is not in the conduct of this new ruling coalition. Serbia feels it now. I wouldn't want him to feel that, too, Republika Srpska. So, out with the heroes, suggest special ties to the Republika Srpska, but special ties to the end. Do not let me now glorify you here how Croatia treats its citizens, how it treats the people in The Hague, who have been accused by The Hague tribunal, and the citizens are Croatia. All of Croatia is at their disposal. This is where the whole of Serbia is at The Hague. Every Croat from anywhere in the globe decides Croatia's fate. That's normal for them. I guess it's normal. If you ask him to send money to his father and mother, if he raised his father's house in the village, if he helped fix the road in the village, why wouldn't he affect who would be in power? That's what we're asking, that all Serbs have Serbian citizenship and the same rights as we who were born here and live here. Why is that so hard for us? But there's no dual citizenship for those who didn't want to be with us. Why do we need dual citizenship with Montenegrins? What interest do Montenegrins from Montenegro have to be citizens of Serbia? If they wanted that interest, they'd be in the common state. What interest does Serbia have that Milo Djukanovic has Serbian citizenship? There aren't any. That's why Serbia extends its arms to the Serbs from Montenegro -- just write a paper and you'll get citizenship. Don't harass them there and don't make up reasons not to get citizenship, but they'll get it, let's see exactly how many Serbs there are in the world. What's wrong with that? Let's finally count ourselves and start thinking like Serbs, and those who are in the state and those who are there. It was like it was easy to go out there for demonstrations when they bombed us! The boss bombed, and his employee went out to demonstrate Europe against the bombing. The Serbs have endured that, too. Hold on a minute, if you want to be in power. You add up, add up to 126, and now you have to run the country. You're copying an agreement. If that were the case, by now we and Republika Srpska would have had much better relations than we have and would not depend on the shift of power, because there are Serbs in power, here are Serbs in power. Why would some parties react differently when it comes to Republika Srpska? It's none of your business. It is for you to boast in the campaign that Republika Srpska is with you, so bring the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska to support you. What do you do with it? As none of you thought to say, wait for the people, we'll fight the Serbs if he only shows up at someone's rally. I understand you were so unintelligent that you brought the Germans. I get that. That's where you're completely ruined. The German came to support you in the campaign to win, and his ambassador said after three months: Kosovo and Metohija will be independent. So this is the direct support of the Democratic Party of Independence of Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. ) To bring in the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, a country that has special ties to Serbia, to support only one political option or only two that will then form a coalition, that is immoral. After that, in order to repay him, you here submit to us for ratification of the special relations agreement with Milorad Dodik. That's what you should call it. If only he were there, so we could look him in the eye and ask him: what kind of co-operation between Serbia and Republika Srpska do you want; did you promise a referendum, where is this referendum; did you ask Kostunica and Tadic for a referendum in Serbia? You didn't. You play cat and mouse. You have one hat that covers your ideology. Your ideology is not to anger America. Which makes America angry if some country wants to defend itself. What's America mad about if some people want to have their own country? Why is that opposed to American interests? (President: Mr. Nikolic, please finish. I'm done. Why don't you tell them that? What are you doing out there, some service people? What are you doing out there? What are you doing out there? Why don't you say: people, why are we bothering you, why do you have a problem with Serbian Kosovo and Metohija, why do you mind the co-operation of Republika Srpska and Serbia? Why didn't you write in this agreement that we would unite, as a political programme, a goal, and see how that goes? If you already threaten to unite us if they take Kosovo and Metohija, then they will fear and will not take Kosovo and Metohija from us, why didn't you go to the end of this agreement? Or why didn't you file a report from 2001 to 2007, while the previous agreement you signed lasted, what was it done? What was reached by an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, specifically, except speculation and trade? What else has been achieved? Did we strengthen our relationships, did we adopt the same school programs? What have we done to unite Republika Srpska and Serbia? Does SPC work on Republika Srpska territory? It's working. Why don't you look up to that example? It's the easiest thing to invent all of your institutions. You do not understand that Serbia and Republika Srpska must live together, they must be one state, they must by world principles, according to world rules, only Serbs should stand up for it. Where there is a shortage -- in Serbs in power. The chair is more important to you than fighting for the state. You are thinking: will America approve us after the next election to be in power if we fight for the unification of Republika Srpska and Serbia? While you're at it, you're going to write these white and empty papers. When you start to think seriously, did you see, whenever you have some serious idea, whenever it's thick and when you need an SRS, did we ever get away? We didn't. We'll carry on the back of the idea, but don't brag about the SPS that you'll accept this. What do you accept, that the government has made a good agreement, that the minister has signed a good agreement with the Republika Srpska, that this is the end of your wishes? This is not the end of our desires. This is a trade agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, a clean trade agreement and a free border crossing, that is. That's all you have from the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. Let's move on. You want to move on? You won't. You want to accept that we're on the move. Let's go to the end, let's ask for the unification of two Serbian countries, of our leadership, of our people. Are you ready to go to a referendum on unification? Well, then write down special relationships. What has special relations to our people and our country? Well, they're special. You're also suggesting with Bosnia and Herzegovina special relations. Well, we have diplomatic relations with them, and these are special, these are Serbian relations. We're signing an agreement on Serbian relations, so it can't be this curtous agreement. This is one country. Then you will see, when it is a state. Come as soon as possible, we're wasting our time. Bring such an agreement, lead the country. You're gathering us for a session, a very important session, where we're just changing the name SRJ to the Republic of Serbia, that's the law that carries this session. That's the law that didn't even get the ministers together. I remember the first time we had that special relationship agreement, it seemed to me in 1997, that everyone here was from both Republika Srpska and Serbia, and the presidents of the parliament and the Prime Minister, and the president of the states, and it was a solemn act. There were a lot of reporters. Since then, journalists have realized it's just a ceremony. Look, nobody cares about this session. I understand the government doesn't care, but it doesn't interest MPs either. You don't realize at all that this is a great act, this is the agenda point for you, as well as the next one that will be, as well as that police co-operation with Moldova, that's it for you. Ratifications are on the agenda today, and this is a matter for one session, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska to unite, to make a state, that Serbs no longer divide. That yesterday in Foca, in the woods, he wouldn't stop Hajrudin, a cop, from asking me where I was going. There's no reason why he would do that. He knew me, so he asked me what you were doing here. He's very pleased to have lived on a national MP from Serbia. It's these special relationships. Learn a little from others, give it to everyone, but you always think of it as a Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4400	Just a moment, Mr. Baralic. You'll get your word. Just to resolve the matter of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, all MPs received a notice on Friday, July 13th 2007, the name of the act under regular number 10, a notice on the government's representative for the draft law confirming the agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. I will read and ask the congregation service to deliver immediately, if there were any technical problems that some MPs did not receive this notice. Please repeat your notice and deliver to all MPs. So, I'm sorry, here's the piece. Please be shared with all MPs immediately. I'll read the notice, if it's disputed that it exists. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4401	Thank you. As soon as possible. So, I've been using the present time. I said yes. Besides, what I'm slowing down, I hope I've never made that impression, I don't think anyone will believe that I've violated the dignity of the National Assembly. That was the basis for reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but well, let's make it an impression and that's not slow. We do not boast that we are voting, but we are informing the public that we are voting for one act already adopted by the Republika Srpska Assembly and that is the basis for which the SPS, taking into consideration other reasons, wants to vote for ratification of this agreement. For me personally and my esteemed colleagues and colleagues on the other side of Drina and this side of Drina, it all works as in the verse "Drino Water, the noble border". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4402	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then MP Zoran Nikolic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me tell you that we Serbian radicals protest the most strongly that this session with this agenda item has not been called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It may seem to you, the draftrs of the agenda on the ratification of the special relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian state of Republika Srpska, that this is okay. However, you had, that you wanted and that it was not your hypocrisy, and it is manifested by a way that respects the National Assembly of none of the signatories of this agreement, nor the foreign minister, Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which speaks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calling for a special session. If you gentlemen of the DS, DSS and G17 voted in favour of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure that there is such a special session, held at the home of the National Assembly, the former federal parliament, then it was most logical that this was the most special thing today, which 16 July should ratify the pressure on the red button. I remember you, for you a long time ago, but for me, how long ago, 1998? Republika Srpska's president was elected and immediately thereafter a joint session of the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly was convened. I was then an MP to the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly. The session is scheduled as a solemn act, it seems to me, for 18.00 hours that October or November, don't mind me, and I could of course tell you and read you the parts of that agreement that it exists somewhere on the official website of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, an agreement that was established immediately after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, an agreement whose ratification was attended by Slobodan Milosevic and then the president of Republika Srpska Nikola Pobressen, and the entire state leadership was most strongly attacked by DS, DSS and SPS. I must remind you that DS, along with the DSS, in these most difficult days by the Serbian state and the Serbian people, and from this and that of Drina, has boycotted the work of the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, so that you have not even attended the ratification of what is called the Agreement establishing special parallel links between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. I have to tell you, I really just remembered it as on the film tape of the whole event when Mr. Nikolic talked about it, about Easter 1995, it was April 14th. There, I get the circumstances, because it personally binds me to that date since it's the date of my birth. I know that on that day, we were headed by the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, after a rally at Loznica Square, to break through the blockade on Drina. That thrill that I felt back then and at least 10,000 people who went into that protest walk of the blockade, first when I saw the boy and the girl in the folk costume, and then the soldiers of Republika Srpska and hug them was something that I would remember my whole life. Such a feeling and a sense of belonging to the people, who fought there for his freedom and who lives under occupation today, although only formally seems to have some kind of freedom, it's taxingly listed here, that you want to improve our cooperation to make them live the same way in all segments of life as we do, it's simply not true, especially because the indiscretion in this text compared to the one in 2001. And if you hadn't after October 5th, because, of course, the history of the Serbian people begins with you, and not with what happened, erased and removed from all the official sites of the republican and federal government then, the 1998 agreement, you would have seen that he had really worked out the real co-operation that we wanted to have and which was ratified in the presence of the president of both states. What did you say then about Slobodan Milosevic and us, Serbian radicals, and all Serbian patriots on that day when the agreement was ratified, and later the agreement to unify the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Russia and Belarus? That it's something terrible, that it strengthens the regime in Belgrade, that it's something that will further quarrel us with the whole world. How does this whole world today and this Europe, which respects your service and that you come to the carpet of American and other embassies, treat Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in Republika Srpska? Here, you're public figures, you're MPs, and you're the leaders of your parties, come on, get on, say, BN TV, on one of those shows that talk about current political issues. What's Mrs. Susanna going to ask you first or some other journalist of that television show? That you're expressing yourself precisely. Of course, you wouldn't be different, and when you mention the occupation, you have to say high representative, because if you don't say that, if you say he's an occupyer, and he is, that or some other TV is going to pay an incredibly large fine. I must remind you of what happened, although you do not care, as you did not follow all previous years of suffering and the suffering of the people in Republika Srpska, that tens of thousands of victims were placed on the altar of the country, because Republika Srpska had to vote for a minimum of its freedom in the blood of the Serbian people, that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, at the rally of the Serbian Radical Party in Bijeljina, on 6 September 2004, addressed citizens in a crowded square in Bijeljina, said that he was not a guest there that he was only one of the stations on his way to Banjaluca, according to also the Serbian country, and that it was all Serbia. Our party, attacked by such a man, who is the prime minister of Republika Srpska, fully involved in crime, Milorad Dodik, suffers the worst possible consequences of the government of such a regime and the former SDS, has been kidnapped by the name of the Serbian Radical Party, banned our political action and invented some radicals that protect the interests of the Serb people and so falsely, with the help of Dodik and Cavic, are represented in the elections. I must remind you again, Mr. Markovic, you were probably at the Expo Hall in New Belgrade at the time, that this unfortunate Dodik, who is the Prime Minister of the Western Serb Republic, came to yours, as you say, the convention, I suppose, is from that English word, which is so nice, said that he hoped at the end of his speech, in front of all of you, in front of Tadic, in front of you, in front of Ruzica Djindjic and the others who gathered together, with that media lobby that came, namely, cultural MPs, that on the night between January 21st and 22nd, he, as prime minister of Republika Srpska, would celebrate. That's what he said before you, Mr Markovic, because in Serbia he will win over the Democratic Party of Serbia. Of course you shut up right away and you saw what kind of man it was. This is what we know, but you don't care, as long as it serves you and as long as it serves as such, as before Biljana Plassic, serves the occupier, it's good for you because you have a common interest, you do all these jobs together, and don't tell me that you don't know anything about business, of course Dinkic and how well he knows, Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic in Republika Srpska, and under whose patronage it was done. Why didn't you write here, we'll contain crime and corruption in Republika Srpska? Well, you won't commit to doing it here, because it's the top of the government and how it's involved in all these criminal acts. So, all of you who at a session like this today, where there are not a third of the MPs, a quarter of the ruling coalition, want to ratify the relationship between the two Serbian states, have never had an honest relationship with that. I have to tell you who the Secretary of Defense is today, I'm not surprised at all, that's the first thing Mr Nikolic noticed, and that's the difference between this 2001 and this 2006 agreement, as far as the defense is concerned in a completely transparent way. First, how it will advocate Dragan Sutanovac's defence in a completely transparent way, when what needs to be transparent for us and for our country's defence and what the military should do is not a NATO pact, because they have different goals and different methods of action. That's why the Sutanovac is as good as the Secretary of Defense. I believe that his influence was still at that time, if he had it at all then, that such a provision would be deleted from the Agreement. I have to tell you something that he later and admitted, he's after so many years of signing so-called. In 2005, the peace agreement of Dayton, only in 2005, crossed over from the other side of Drina, while Serbian Radical Party MPs, the ones from the present calling, those from the past, not to speak of it, might be uncomfortable because one of the prominent fighters, volunteers who defended his city, counterpart Ognjen Mihajlovic, was on Grbavica until the last day and defended his hometown and many others who were here, you were walking around Belgrade, going around the white world, campaigning against the regime then, against the 1998 agreement. You didn't collect humanitarian aid, you didn't give blood, you didn't go to war on the front lines, you didn't care about that, so I'm not surprised you weren't at Petrovdan in Bratunc. Because you never talk about Serbian victims, they never interested you. Not to mention the fact that one of those who had three Democratic Party ministers in his government, Milan Panic, said at one of the rallys in Banja Luka -- respected citizens of Vrnjaka Banja. I can expect the same from you. How do you know where Pop's Field is, where Mareva is angry, where is Nevessinje, where is Trebinje, where is Banjaluka, where is Bijeljina? You know that, but just on a geographical map, there's never been many of you there. And then today, completely hypocritical and not frankly, as our party and our president have always done, which is because of this idea that all Serbs have lived in one country for five years in the Hague case, that you ratify the Agreement. Of course, you will not rush to any television and say with pride - yes, we did it because Serbia is in our heart, the Serbian country and the Republika Srpska, just because you need it, but for short-term propaganda purposes. If you had the conditions, you would have done this ratification right after the signing, because you should have done it before the election campaign. So, today you do it so palely, anemically, completely uninterested in the fate of that people there and the fact that in what is called the Muslim-Croatian Federation, and since it stands here beautifully in the Agreement, none of the Serbs can exercise their rights. Ask Verica Radeta when was the last time she was in Guber, the municipality of Livno, in her hometown, and whether she, since it is in the Federation, is free, as an MP, as a Serbian, can go there. Ask that same guy, Duvnjak, if he's allowed to go to his Malovan. Ask any of the Serbs who have their property there and whose ancestors' graves are there, if they can leave since 1992. Of course, you don't care, it's all for one-time use and only when you need it, but the people of Republika Srpska, the people of Serbia and all the Serbs who escaped from Republika Srpska know it very well. I will conclude how millions of Serbs do it today, not just Serbian radicals, because we have told you a million times, if you can understand it and reach you, that in the last country war in Republika Srpska and children of Chetniks and children of Partisans were called Chetniks, so that, once only the slogan of the Serbian Radical Party, today, it is a slogan for all people whose Republic of Serbia, and Montenegro, and the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Krajina in their hearts, Serbia is eternal while their children are faithful.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4404	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4405	Indeed, I can no longer defend the Assembly and its dignity from you who are leading the Assembly, because this is now flagrant and I express my open and justifiable suspicion that the congregation service is engaged in counterfeiting by serving the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we have finally received this notice from the government of the Republic of Serbia that Milan Markovic, the Minister of State Administration and Self-Government, will also be represented at this point in the agenda. First, the government's statement was dated June 13th, 2006. Kucano is most likely in the Serbian Parliament, because the second font is Vladin and different in the government, because I have a letter in front of me that really came from the government and a memo I suspect was done in the Serbian Parliament this morning. Next, you seduced him under the same number that you seduced this act on June 29th, because you no longer had a number for July 13th. There were new acts that were seduced, you'd have to seduce under today's date, and then you resorted to a trick. What does it mean to seduce a new Serbian government statement under the same number under which an act was filed in the government 15 days ago? In the end, especially what it points to. Even if the government sent this statement on July 13th, it could not be signed by Bozidar Djelic, as he spent the day celebrating Montenegro's independence of Montenegro. All day, July 13th, Bozidar Djelic spent in Montenegro, unable to sign the act. What are you people turning this National Assembly into? Are we really just someone who needs to do certain things for you? Are we the gloves you'll throw away when you've done the work? Tell us that openly. This has never happened. Where she is, the G17 Plus firm has filed some criminal charges over some dates against some of the services in the Serbian Parliament. This looks very much like G17 Plus behavior. This was their manners. Don't, people, play with this. The government has not informed us of the government's replacement. Why would she keep us informed when it must be the foreign minister's duty to represent and present international ratifications here. This is even being published in a special section of the official messenger. It is not published in an act that reads - acts of local self-government and state administration, but international agreements and conventions. It's obvious that there was a foreign minister here, and then you invented, who is currently in the government, is not on the way abroad, here is Milan Markovic, let's write Milan Markovic. Now the answer to this question is due to the Secretary of Parliament. What's going on in the assembly? This morning, a vice president of the National Assembly informed us that we had not received written notice from the government and that we would receive it as soon as possible. Two hours later, the second vice president informs us that we won another Friday, but that here he will give us one more time, a tail, who wasn't satisfied on Friday, gets another act on Monday. This doesn't make sense, right in an act called special ties with Republika Srpska. That's why, Mr. Albianic, that's why I was against you having this session this morning. You don't mind a fake, you don't mind. Look, there's no one around you who would take over the session now, you have to do it now, but you don't mind, Mr. Albianic. So anyone can humiliate and insult this assembly, will lead the Albianic session, fear nothing. Now I understand why Rade Obradovic won't run the session. If you think you're fighting with the DSS, and you're pushing the G17 plus, it doesn't make sense. Spread out here, mother's sons, you who run the country. Where's the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee? Where's the foreign minister? You're sitting here when we're discussing agreements between us and another country for now. The entity is a state, they just couldn't call it state, they'll call her eventually. Once again, we will apply to the Administrative Committee to examine how this deception of MPs has occurred and why the congregation service is involved in this deception. Don't make those people make forgeries out there and stay out of work, and get chased by prosecutors, like they did in the last session, when you also anti-dated some documents. Don't let people who are 30 or 35 lose their job because you ordered them to sign something like this or they'd be out of a job. Don't, let Albianic seduce such an act, or let him seduce the Secretary of Parliament, so that we know that she has seduced the Secretary of Parliament with her own hand this act, so we know who's dealing with it. Don't transfer to the clerks, we won't deal with the clerks, we want to deal with you. Mr. Albianic, this session couldn't begin this morning. The government here has no representatives, the government and the Assembly are falsifying, because now you've done something here on behalf of the government, I assume you've received consent from someone from the government, since the Prime Minister is somewhere on the road for three or four days, since the foreign minister is somewhere on the road, who then informed you, who gave you the signature for this act we got today? The serious things are at stake, the serious points of the agenda, and you act like you're into some theater where there are actors and statisticians, so you're actors, and we're statisticians, we're gonna stick to the material until there's a vote. Someone's gonna raise their hand, someone's gonna get out of the O.R., and the Assembly's still on the move. Things get very complicated. We are expected to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, I hope next week. If you think we're taking her like this, don't expect anything good. Be serious, you've been given a gift of authority, but don't treat Serbia like something you got on a gift or what your father or dad left you for inheritance, so you're looking as soon as possible to sell and buy a good car. This is Serbia. Each Serbian government must be serious and must deal seriously with Serbia's future, not the future of Euro-Atlantic integration, NATO or the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4406	Of course, Mr. Todorovic, that I will protect the Assembly, I am here to protect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from this place. So it's true that there's a wrong date on this document. I ask, therefore, that the congregation service urgently deliver a request to the government to correct this technical error. I don't want to reconsider, but it's obvious that it's a technical mistake because the numbers remain listed under 2007 in both the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I request that this technical correction be carried out urgently and delivered to the National Assembly. I hope that it will satisfy the answer and that we can continue the congregation work. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nikola Vukelić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4407	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, during this afternoon's debate, I was in the O.R. and listened carefully to what was said about this bill. We continue this tradition that very often we don't talk, that is to expand the subject and talk about other things. What I certainly didn't hear in this afternoon's debate is a valid and valid legal argument against such an agreement, which, of course, doesn't surprise me, because it doesn't exist, since this bill, i.e. the law on confirming special parallel links with, or between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, is based on international legal standards based on a peace agreement, for the sake of the public, is written here by the peace agreement, that is the famous Dayton Agreement. Of course this agreement is in line with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But here in the afternoon debate, a few political arguments were presented against this agreement. Of course, I do not dispute that right with my fellow MPs. They have a legitimate right to challenge this agreement as it is, but I simply want to use my right to point to the indifference of that argument. It is simply amazing that those who consider themselves the leaders of European integration against such an agreement, which is one regional co-operation, i.e. co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. So it's simply incomprehensible that someone who advocates some more and more complex integration does not support the integration of our immediate environment. Also, these are representatives of the idea of economic, economic development of our country. Among other things, this agreement will have, I am confident, and direct consequences for economic, economic development, both our countries and Republika Srpska. We certainly don't have companies and we don't have companies that can be leaders in the European economy, but for starters we need to create firms and business entities that should be regional leaders. What happened last year, therefore, was the unification of Telekom, or the purchase of Telekom Republika Srpska by the "Telecoma" of the Republic of Serbia, and the purchase of an insurance company in Republika Srpska, says that our companies are slowly coming out of our borders, becoming regional, significant economic players. This is a prerequisite, for these companies to be so strengthened, to be more significant on the European market as well as on the world market. That is why it remains unclear for someone who advocates the accelerated economic development of our country to be against this agreement. Also, it is said here that this is a political agreement between political parties in power. If that were the case, I wouldn't vote for this agreement. So the authorities will change. No one in power has been forever and it is true that there are now political options that are in power and that will ratify this agreement, i.e. the bill. It is true that there will also be a bigger one to implement this agreement, which includes the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Republika Srpska President Dragan Cavic and Republika Srpska Prime Minister Milorad Dodik. If one of these people is not in power for two or three years, I firmly believe that this agreement will remain in force, i.e. I know that it will remain in force because it is in the best interest of both the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. So the argument that this is a political agreement of the political elite in power just doesn't stand. Here, the law sets out in which areas will be conducted, i.e. to carry out co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. I wouldn't bother you, because you have this proposal and you can all read it. They're here right now, taxing the areas in which they're going to cooperate. That's the best answer for some of the remarks that were made here. I'll give you an example of a banana. Big political topics have been launched here and have been spoken through a historical and political aspect, etc. But a week ago, on the Committee on Agriculture, we received an analysis on anti-urban protection, offered by the elemental disasters that occurred in Srem, in Machva, in the Valjev region. The conclusion is very simple, that this is exactly the border area, so the western part of Serbia, is particularly threatened, because there is no such thing as co-operation with Republika Srpska. This agreement will make it possible. Because the city clouds when they form they form not directly above the territory where the city is causing damage, but for miles away. Therefore, it is necessary, among other things, for the co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, for the urban clouds formed in Republika Srpska to act actively, to be broken down, because when they reach these border areas, then it is too late and the damage occurs. I know this example is banal, but here is an example that is fresh and that is directly in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such examples, when we look at all these areas where they're going to cooperate, it's really a lot. Once again, this agreement reflects a political position both the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. Smart people work because they know everything is done in their time. You can't do anything when it's not the time. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia will, of course, support this bill. In the end, I will only look back on one comment made here by Mrs Natasa Jovanovic. It is true that Mr. Dodik made a lapus at the Democratic Party convention, but to a great extent he was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4408	The word has a People's MP Nikola Vukelić and then a National MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4409	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, every member of the Serb people who has at least a minimum national consciousness must be proud of the existence of Republika Srpska, which was created by the struggle of the Serbian people for freedom and survival west of Drina. How much do you care, gentlemen of the DOS, for this agreement and for the sake of the survival of Republika Srpska, is your presence, or your absence in this room. The people of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia are one people. There is no difference between Serbs in Semberija and Serbs in Machva. There is no difference between Serbs in Posavina and Serbs in Srem. So one natural process is to unite that same nation. Throughout all history, Bosnia has been considered a Serbian country. After World War II in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia were a constituent nation. Here's what we see all the inconsistencies of so-called. international communities. So Serbs, who were a constitutive people in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, have no right to self-determination, and Albanians in Kosovo, who were ethnic minorities, are now trying to give them independence at all costs. Serbs in Republika Srpska did not have any rights. Even the Americans helped the Croats in the final genocide of the Serbian people in Operation Storm. The international community has broken the former SFRY, and now at all costs and artificially trying to preserve the artificial form that Bosnia and Herzegovina is. Inconsistencies, so-called. international communities, whose representatives and notorious liars, such as the high representative, former representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Paddy Ashdown, and not so much a surprise for the Serbian people, but the problem is what hurts the Serbian people in general, is the behavior of our government's representative, DOS authorities. Today, when the survival and fundamental rights of the people in Republika Srpska are threatened, the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic is running from Zagreb to Sarajevo and apologizes and on behalf of who? We remember he was at the 10th anniversary of Srebrenica. Of course, in Bratunac and Skelani, he didn't think to be. When she was a 10-year-old "Storm" and 10 years of persecution by the Serbian people from Croatia for a paradox at St. Mark's church came with a great delay. I guess that's what he wanted to show how much he cared and how much he wanted to be there. Who's ready to apologize to the Serbian victims? Is Tadic apologising for the Medacic pocket, for Paul's court, for the Flash for the Storm, for Pakrak Poljana, for the Koran Bridge? Is she apologizing for the death of Banja Luka babies? Is he apologizing for Skelane, a cousin? Could he be apologizing for the Serbian victims in Sarajevo? Not to mention whether he may apologize for the crimes against the Serb people committed in World War II, and you can best inform yourself in the latest book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, a historical work, "The Roman Catholic Crime Project of the Creation of an Artificial Croatian Nation". To make an accident for the Serb people bigger, we see a comment by Croatian party president Ante Djapic, who says Tadic's apology is a good move, but it is not enough, because now it is time to pay war damages. The same Djapic attends Zagreb in Maksimir, at Thompson's concert, where everything is full of hatred for the Serb people. In the end, here you say in these materials, that there is a particular need to improve co-operation in the following areas, so you mention information, protection of freedom and the rights of citizens in accordance with the highest international standards, then curbing crime. Then why in such criminal ways did you deliver General Tolimir to The Hague? If another Serb were to finish there, would you please Carla del Ponte? In the end, I just want to point out one more thing, you here are constantly dragging the thesis as someone here competes in patriotism, from the beginning, since the constitution of this session you have mentioned several times, where radicals have defended the Serbian people, that there is no more radicals. I am now not saying this as an SRS MP and as a member of the SRS, but as an individual and on my own behalf. The basic motive why I joined the SRS and why I was involved in politics was that it had to be a debt to Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, according to Vojislav Seselj, who was the only Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, when he had the hardest time fighting for freedom. Please don't make fun of the tragic fate of your own people for your cheap political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4410	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, and then a National MP, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4411	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us a bill confirming the Agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. This is part of the rich legislative activity of one of the acts that we need to adopt in this congregation, or carry out its ratification. I was hoping that we would adopt this act without a vote against and without dissonant tones, and precisely without those attempts to reach cheap political points that were heard about this speaker in previous discussions. Let's get back to the subject. What is the content of this agreement on establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The agreement was signed, as has already been heard of this speaker, on 26 September 2006 in Banja Luka, and it is true that there were legitimate representatives of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, which were Mr Tadic, Mr Kostunica, Mr Cavic and Mr Dodik. The agreement, regardless of who was in power, which was engaged in public affairs in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, should work. I think it is in the best interest of both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to ratify this agreement today. The final provisions clearly state that the date of entry into force of this agreement ceases to be an agreement on the establishment of special parallel relations between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska, which was signed in Banja Luka on 5 March 2001, because the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia no longer exists, the Republic of Serbia is an international legal entity, and we therefore have the interest that these special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska are maintained. The constitutional basis exists, said Mr. Minister, on the constitutional basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the signing of this agreement, and the confirmation of this agreement, as it is said in the reasons for the adoption of this law, is proposed to meet the necessary legal assumptions, which will allow further improvement of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska and their mutual co-operation. I really don't see why and so that someone in this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in our Parliament, would have something against this reason to ratify this agreement today that we are talking about. What is it, to get back on the subject, because I'm afraid we've gone into a political story and in this cheap achievement of political goals, unfortunately, it shows that nothing is sacred enough for us to try not to politically point on any subject mentioned here in this House. Therefore, participants in the agreement, in line with the peace agreement and the constitutions of the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, will in particular improve co-operation in the areas of economy and the use of economic resources, planning, legislation, privatisation and denationalisation, science and technology, education, culture, sport, health and social policy, tourism and environmental protection, information, protection of citizens' freedoms and rights in accordance with the highest internationally recognised standards and crime repression. These are all areas in which this agreement should be established, i.e. to continue and improve co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. The international legal basis for the adoption of this agreement is the Dayton Agreement, which has, here, been many reminisces and reminders of the past, created as a peace agreement and as a compromise solution to preventing and stopping further tragedy in these areas. We all know, and we remember very well how the Dayton Peace Accords ever happened and how they tried to solve the problems in these areas. Republika Srpska has become an integral part of the international legal order by means of the Dayton Agreement, and the Dayton Agreement is an international basis for the signing and ratification of such an agreement today, and therefore there is no dilemma. We have also heard from Mr. Minister and a few of the debaters here that they are just very important in these economic, political, cultural and historical ties, which we must preserve, so that the Serbian people can survive on the other side of Drina. There are ties that go beyond a far-reaching economy, and I agree with Mr. Minister when he stressed this specifically, that there is an education system that relies on the education system in Serbia, that it is a perspective of co-operation of the Trans-Drin municipalities. I also agree when it comes to family, business and historical relationships, etc. Here we have a story about it, again I have to say a few sentences of Dusan Radovic who says, problems would be to solve those who made them, it may be the most just, but it's not the smartest. Maybe they could try and solve the problems of those who made them in their own time, but I'm afraid they can't do the same methods as how problems have arisen and solve themselves in the future. This agreement, therefore, must have concrete reflections on the ordinary lives of citizens, otherwise it will remain a dead letter on paper. Mr. Nikolic here, one of the previous speakers, spoke about breaking the city clouds, etc., about the need for co-operation, and that is something that is life. In order to regulate that too, one argument has been mentioned here that the agreement has only five sides and that it will not do anything. This is just the basis for setting up and solving problems in the future in all these areas and improving co-operation between Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. On the one hand, it is said that we want to ratify this agreement to score cheap political points, the question arises why the signatories of the agreement are not kidding and that this is a kind of hypocrisy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we wanted to make this a pomp, to score cheap political points, then we would have just invited the signatories and everything, and we would have made a big pomp about something that was signed back in 2001. We are now witnessing only ratifications of such an agreement. That's exactly the argument that refutes that we want to score cheap political points by having this agreement ratified today. The story mentioned here is that the development of transparent co-operation between executive, legislative and other institutions is not necessary, because what different co-operation can be. On the other hand, it comes out of the other political option and says that in this kind of co-operation, we had one secular co-operation that was neither transparent enough, nor public enough, nor held in parliaments, nor Republika Srpska, nor the Republic of Serbia. You could talk a lot about this. Instead of verbal patriotism, we are for concrete and essential solutions of far-reaching importance for co-operation in the future and for persuasion of the Serbian National Corps in line with the requirements of the 21st century and the current political situation in Europe and the world, because this is the only way we can manage to preserve this Serbian national Corps in the right and the only possible way in the 21st century. We ask the question - is this agreement on the best interest of the Republic of Serbia? The answer is yes. Is this agreement in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia? The answer is yes. Is that why DS - Boris Tadic will support the ratification of this agreement - yes, because it is in the best interest of both the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4412	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question that every MP asks himself when he gets a proposal from the government or the ruling majority is a matter of motive - which is why such a document is proposed, or such a law. Especially when a document like this is proposed, which should by its nature not be put into a dilemma in parliament for any single moment by any MP to do anything to strengthen ties between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. It's just that first moment, because it's normal for all of us to try and see what's behind it. We are convinced here that this document has no other motive, except for the development of good relations with Republika Srpska. The first thing each of us sees is that today we ratify this agreement signed on 26 September 2006. You know it is in Republika Srpska's obligation that the first week of October is elective for Republika Srpska. We will all remember, that day, all those who went to Republika Srpska to sign this agreement were essentially only part of the election campaign of Milorad Dodik, who wanted to coronate his campaign, to show Republika Srpska citizens that Milorad Dodik enjoyed the support of both the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister, which he later returned to their pre-election meetings. And then, in some ways, it's a problem with us right now when things like this are like this, because we simply won't lie to the citizens of Serbia or to the citizens of Republika Srpska. We are sure that this document is such a nature – pure political marketing. That's where things are completely clear. It wouldn't be any problem if you from the ruling coalition came out here and brought out everything you've done for the past seven years, because you've already signed one of these agreements. All that came out of the agreement told the Serbian Parliament and one single moment there would be no dilemma among any MPs that your initiatives are truly sincere and that you really want to do something to improve the conditions in which Serbs live in Republika Srpska. Here, I'll remind you, from the moment you signed the first agreement to today, the 56 competencies of Republika Srpska as an entity were removed from the agenda and transferred to the central level. to BiH level. Is that your success? Is that why you signed this agreement? Do you know that since you signed this agreement that the constitution of Republika Srpska has changed, so today the constituent peoples in Republika Srpska, they call them Muslims, are now Bosniaks, and Serbs? I ask you, do you remember how and why Republika Srpska was created? It was precisely because it was tried to abolish the Serbian people in the constitution as a constituent people, as they did in Croatia in the 1990s, that they kicked them out of the constitution, and in 1995 they almost ethnically cleaned him out of Republika Srpska. Why didn't you do anything as a ruling coalition, as a government, because Serbia is among other states a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement. I understand, you couldn't have done it by force, but at least you did it in a way that implies protest. Why do you allow the Dayton Agreement to be violated? It is the essence of the special relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, to protect Republika Srpska. To remind you of what has happened since then, what is worst in Republika Srpska, the Republika Srpska Army has been abolished and a single army of BiH has been created. Do you really believe that it is good for the Republic of Serbia and that it is good for the citizens of Republika Srpska? Then ask the question why did everything that happened in the '90s happen? High Representatives are completely adjudicating it, as was done at KIM. You remember that there were 280 standards, which were to be met, and there was a question of Kosovo and Metohija's status. I'm asking you, did you protest because no standard so far has been met, but you've gone beyond the fact that you should have done it in order to even discuss KIM's status. From the tax area, the transfer is contrary to Article 68. Republika Srpska, a complete banking tax system has moved to taxation at BiH level. The authority to appoint and discharge judges and prosecutors has been unconstitutionally transferred to BiH level. Unconstitutional jobs have also been transferred to BiH level. You know when you transfer one of these services from Republika Srpska to the Federation level that Republika Srpska is thus left completely without being able to defend itself. The abolished army, the abolished service, and now you're still trying to convince us that this agreement should be signed because it will help the citizens of Republika Srpska. What's it gonna help him with? By trying to break through the constitution proposed by the BiH government, where, according to the new constitution, four options, belonging to entities to prevent the overvote of entities, the three would be completely wiped out. Thanks to the SRS MP in Republika Srpska, i.e. in the Federation of BiH, Mirko Blagojevic, the constitution did not pass at that time. I'm sure you won't do anything if this new High Representative of the United Nations, who, as soon as he took office, is about 60 or 70 civil servants, has suspended from the police, suspending them from other authorities and taking away their right to work. It violates their basic human rights and nothing to anyone. Why didn't you act as a government? How could Miroslav Lajcak behave in such a way in Republika Srpska. To make one parallel, imagine it happens in Serbia. They would immediately start their engines to those bombers in Avian to get it back on track or start a new bombing. You convince us that you are creating new special relations with the Republika Srpska. And at least part of the citizens of Republika Srpska, with whom the SRS communicates, asked me to give you their message: don't even defend them anymore, no more special relations, just stick to what has been signed so far, which is on paper and don't take away from it. Stick to the Dayton Agreement, stick to the fact that Serbia is a state guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and defend the interests of Republika Srpska. Now, this new agreement will be only and exclusively in the function of your election campaign. But since you do not advocate the Dayton Agreement, so does Resolution 1244. You see these parallels, wherever Serbs have a foothold in an international document that is unequivocal, such as Resolution 1244, you don't mind. Dayton is something that has been signed, as is Resolution 1244, but it does not occur to you to ask that, on the basis of Resolution 1244, part of our army and police, up to a thousand, in Kosovo and Metohija, to return our customs authorities to the border with Kosovo and Metohija, do not ask for refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, as you do not ask Croatia. Strasbourg is discussing that all evasive and displaced faces should return to their centuries-old hearths, to their homes from which they have been expelled. And what do you do when you go to Croatia, or your party president, or the president of the Republic of Serbia? You apologize. Why do you apologize? Because after "Bliss" and "Storms" there are still some Serbs left to finish and to quench every mention of the Republika Srpska Krajina. I'm surprised you didn't think to do anything when it comes to the government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile. No state body, absolutely, has the intention of a legitimate representative of the Serb people from Republika Srpska respecting and trying to help them exercise their rights. You know, now you have no idea how it is possible for the Croats to ask how it is possible that the Serbs were wiped out of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a constituent nation. For you, it's a policy of the final act and it's accepted. In that respect, it is unnecessary for you to ask that question, because you are not interested in it. You may be interested, but you have a warrant not to ask questions like that. That, when it comes to DS and G17 plus, I have confirmation from Strasbourg, 2006, when a declaration on the position of Serbs from Republika Srpska, under the protection of the United Nations, was submitted that MPs of the G17 Plus and DS did not sign such a declaration. Not to tell you that the signatures gave more than 30 MPs, it seems to me, from seven states, even one Baroness from England did so, realizing that Serbs in Republika Srpska were at risk and still at risk of rights. And that's what characterizes you when you propose any laws, any special relationships. These special ties end on the election date, whether these elections are held here in the Republic of Serbia or in Republika Srpska. The important thing is that it is the same party, a party that is under US and European Union patronage.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4414	The People's Messenger is Zeljko Vasiljevic, and then the Messenger of the People is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by discussing this agreement, I must remind you that more than 25,000 Serbs have given for Republika Srpska's lives and that more than 100,000 people have been wounded in previous wars for the Republic of Serbia. What is their opinion on this agreement and on such political acts, I can best tell you because I am the professional secretary of the Association of Wartime Military Disabilities and people who died in previous wars come into my office every day. I have to express their dissatisfaction with something similar to this. That this act, i.e. this agreement, was not written by a ministry whose Minister Markovic is clearly seen from the reasons he gave why this agreement should be adopted. My people, does anyone really think that we needed an agreement to make the Republic of Serbia, or Telekom Republika Srpska, the owner of Telekom Republika Srpska? It was not because of this agreement, but because it gave 200m euros more. So this agreement has nothing to do with any authority in the area of economic co-operation, because we could have done it without this agreement. Indeed, such an agreement as it was written and even more so as to explain it is somewhat insulting to the authority and dignity of this congregation. I would like to return you to December 14, 1995, the signing of the Dayton Agreement, and then many were looking forward, those who participated in the wars, which ended the war in Republika Srpska and were sure that the Dayton Agreement created a state of the Serbian people. My predecessor here spoke of 56 ingenuities that have moved from Republika Srpska to the Federation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Believe me, if the Dayton Agreement had been signed today, with such ingenuities as Republika Srpska, the war would not have ended. Be sure of that. There's one more thing I don't get. Why this agreement reduces the authority and rights of the Serbian state in defending the interests of the Serb people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. This agreement is a reduction of rights compared to what the Dayton Agreement gave us. I think it's completely politically unprofitable and politically dilettaneous, because we're taking away part of the rights that we've had in some international acts. If you follow the views and statements of both politicians and people from Republika Srpska, it will be clear to you that they are not satisfied with the relationship of Republika Srpska, the citizens of Serbian nationality towards the Federation of BiH and those processes that are happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Republika Srpska. We are referring to the abolition of institutions and these pressures to change the Constitution of the Bosnian-Croatian Federation, which will take away a significant part of the authority and institutions of the state of Republika Srpska. In the previous period, when there was a similar agreement, Republika Srpska lost its right to its military, and now one pressure is being put on Republika Srpska to agree to constitutional reforms that will lose police. If you read in Article 2, what is foreseen, the objectives of the agreement, it says: crime control. Gentlemen, Republika Srpska police are also engaged in some of the higher interests other than the repression of crime. To deal with crime, we really don't need this deal. Some other international acts are enough to predict this. This defined objectives of the agreement by the Serbian government is to accept the advance constitutional reforms in the Federation of BiH and reduce the intrepidness in the area of the MUP, which I think is inadmissible. You are probably aware that there are trends in BiH's territory that deal with taking away part of Republika Srpska's territory. I am particularly referring to the latest initiative to separate Potocari, or part of Srebrenica from Republika Srpska, because, for God's sake, there is a cemetery where Muslims who were killed in 1995 are buried. It's not exactly how many there are, nor do we want to accept that that's an argument. So far, we've talked about whether some territories should belong to another standard of a particular state, and this is probably a unique precedent in the world, that someone is asking their cemetery to be singled out from one country and joined another country. You are also clear and you have probably heard that the Croatian people in the Muslim-Croatian Federation have expressed their views that they too want to have their entity within the Bosnian-Croatian Federation, and we do not have much against it, but they have made it clear that they want to be joined by municipalities in Posavina, which belonged to the Dayton Agreement with them. That's what they want to cut Republika Srpska into two parts. With Serbia in the Dayton Agreement, among other things, and a guarantee of the territorial integrity of Republika Srpska, we should show with this agreement a clear attitude to oppose such views imposed by the Muslim-Croatian Federation and their politicians, who are constantly influencing the international community to lose another significant part of its institutions. Since time is running out, I want to look back at one, in Article 1, per se, a mistake, where it says: "In the originals in the official languages of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska". In my opinion, there should be no mass here, but a single one, because the official language in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska is a Serbian language. That legal correction would show that it is one people who speaks one language. Starting with the title -- an agreement establishing special parallel links between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, I think there was a mistake here. If you read what is under the title, it is clear that it should say here that it is an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. Below, citing all the reasons and special parallel relations, you will see that this refers to respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence for BiH. If we list all of this, you will see that everything applies to BiH, and only to the Republika Srpska. I want to tell you one more thing. These days, an initiative was launched by the Republika Srpska Elektroprivreda to prevent 70 villages inhabited by the Serb population, and they are located in the Bosnian-Croatian Federation, which still lack electricity, electrified and thus prevent the emigration of these people from the very important territory of the Bosnian-Croatian Federation, in which Serbs make up the majority. Another finding, that the agreement allowed a number of Republika Srpska wartime military invalids to move into a social protection system of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say, that's where there's been some discrimination. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, it's obvious that you didn't do this, but that you were informed about this. That this was done against the law, or against Article 5. A law on martial law, which strictly prohibits it, but then one precedent was taken, that only a certain number of wartime military invalids, which is about 720, were given to their people with disabilities through the Republika Srpska Bureau. I think it has made it possible to discriminate against other wartime military disableds from the territory of Republika Srpska, who are not allowed the right, who have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, to enter our system of protection. That's a big problem for a few hundred, I could say a thousand wartime military invalids. If that was the reason for the signing of this agreement, I would ask that other wartime military disableds from Republika Srpska, who have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, be introduced into our system of protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4416	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I am able to vote for the unification of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia for the rest of my life, then I will know that I had reason to live. If this is funny, then it just confirms what we've been saying here all day, that you from the congregation's majority are just formally trying to get in touch with the citizens of Serbia, to get in touch with Serbs both in Serbia and in Republika Srpska, that you don't actually know what's on the agenda, or what's going on here. You also showed that you participated in the debate, that you are not aware of the situation in which Republika Srpska is, and unfortunately I am afraid of the situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located. When I say this, then I mean problems related to Kosovo and Metohija, but I guess we'll talk about it, as you announced, 24th. What you of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have called an agreement on establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska is a completely wrong title, given the content of this text. You could have freely put here that it was some kind of parallel relationship between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. You have just written it from member of the first to last, it is either explicitly written by BiH or from what can be read between the lines it is obvious to refer to BiH. I do not believe that in this way you are doing anything that the Serbs in Republika Srpska want and that is what the Serbs in the Republic of Serbia want, and that is exactly what I said at the beginning of my presentation. We want, both Serbian and Serbian citizens from Republika Srpska, to unite Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and no parallel relations, at least not in the way you called them special here, are not necessary just because they absolutely don't mean anything. A short time ago, he noticed that you wrote in article 1 that this text is written in the original languages of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. That is exactly what I say and what the SRS deputies have been saying all day, that you wrote this because of your relations with BiH, not with the Republika Srpska. Mr. Secretary, maybe someone's sending you a message right now. I see you're playing with the phone. For your information, the official language in both Serbia and Republika Srpska is Serbian. When it comes to the specific text of this agreement, of course we have here and how to comment on what you wrote. Here in this one, I would say that Article 2, so I guess the preamble after the title of this agreement, you say among other things: "The Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska establish special parallel relations on the basis of the belief that the implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and its annex is consistent, comprehensive and accelerated, based on the creation of conditions for the permanent co-existence of peoples and citizens in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole." This attitude has absolutely nothing to do with the title and what you are going to do today, that is, in the voting day to declare that you voted. Also, you say the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska will respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence of BiH. As it did not occur to you that, for example, you should put a comma here to add that BiH's integrity, namely our relationship, the Republic of Serbia, will depend on BiH's integrity on how BiH's relationship with the Kosovo issue will be. Could it not have already been in this agreement in some way conditions and let them know what kind of relationship the Republic of Serbia will be, i.e. to be clearly told, if BiH recognises an independent Kosovo that Serbia will recognise an independent Republika Srpska. Is it a sin, is it something that Serbian citizens don't think and not every Serb in Republika Srpska thinks? Of course not. Why did we say that this agreement was just a farce and that it was part of an election campaign? Well, because, of course, I don't know how many of you followed, you went to these conventions, the peaks of your parties, to conventions at Milorad Dodik, to some closed halls, and you didn't have much contact with what was being said during the election campaign. We have made it clear that what Milorad Dodik promises is only part of the election campaign, that he promises to preserve the constitution, the constitutional framework that was until before the elections, that it is only a political trick. Of course, it turns out that we were right and, of course, Milorad Dodik accepts everything the high representative has imposed on him, like he did before. And the saddest thing is, all that's lost in Republika Srpska was lost by signing someone from the Republika Srpska government. We cannot complain and say that police in Republika Srpska have actually disappeared because it was imposed by a high representative. No, because it was signed by a representative of the government, a Serb from Republika Srpska. So it was with everything that was lost in Republika Srpska. Do you know what the police have in Republika Srpska today? Only the fire department and the street stage, everything else is the police at the level of the Federation of BiH. In Article 2, you listed where we will specifically have these special connections with Republika Srpska and I find it interesting why you wrote privatisation and denationalisation here. Privatisation can understand, and I understand, but what does denationalisation have to do with the relations between the people, Serbs in Serbia and Serbs in Republika Srpska. I don't think anyone who wrote this understands this. Of course, Mr Tomislav Nikolic told you, it did not occur to you to write that you would cooperate in defence, that we would have special relations when it comes to defence, both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. And when it comes to the defence of the Republika Srpska, then we are bound by the Dayton Agreement. But, as Mr Todorovic said earlier, you are not interested in any agreement from the current government in Serbia that does something good to Serbs or Republika Srpska or Serbia. When I say in Serbia, then I think of Resolution 1244, which, unfortunately, you mention less and less. You predicted here that there would be someone bigger, or that there would already be, since this agreement, that we would only ratify it, was signed on 26 September 2006. I ask, since there is no word in the explanation of the essence of this agreement, I assume that you know Mr Markovic whether this was ever a bigger one and what the Prime Ministers and Presidents of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska did specifically. I would ask you, when you speak to the MPs, to let us know. In Article 7, it is very interesting that you have predicted "that co-operation in the area of legislation will be maintained on a regular basis between the National Assembly of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia at the level of the president of the Assembly and the Assembly's working bodies". We almost got that list of countries with which, so you offered the MPs to declare which state they would like to participate in groups of interparliamentary friendships, and there is no Republika Srpska, and they have parliament. You only predicted BiH there. Also, I think it is necessary to say after this Article 10th or earlier, it is nevertheless necessary to provide that this agreement has an obligation for the Serbian Parliament, and of course the Republika Srpska, to inform about the results of its work, what they agree on, what conclusions they make, not only to settle secret agreements and secret agreements, as they do, as they are now in force between the officials of the two Serbian states. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, and fellow MPs who will vote for this agreement, whether these are your special forms of co-operation and that, let's say, no one in the power to go to Bratunac to honor the victims of Naser Oric, and that several days before that, the president of Serbia goes to Croatia and apologizes to the Croats there, I just don't know why. As he didn't remember to apologize to Serbian victims, he didn't remember to apologize for the disappearance, or capitulation, of Republika Srpska's enslavement. Of course, he doesn't think about it, he doesn't have that kind of consciousness. He then boasted that there were representatives not only of Serbs in his family, but also of other nationalities. I don't know who he meant, but let's just say that his wife's mother and I are from the same place, but as Natasa Jovanovic said, I can't go to my father's grave since I was 92 years old, nor to the house where I was born, and Boris Tadic's mother-in-law can visit and visit her relatives regularly in that same Gubera near Livna. I'd also like to ask you, are your special forms of co-operation that unsuspectingly wrapped lie about where General Tolimir was arrested? You don't have an answer for that either, you don't have an answer for it, you don't have an answer for it, you have no answer for it, you have no answer for it, you have no answer for it, you have no answer for it. You have no answer for it. You have no answer for it. You have no answer for it. Also, I want to ask you, is this agreement signed on Savi or Drina? I'm saying this because of Mr. Vojislav Kostunica's famous departure to Racha on the Sava River, when he showed it in the Sava River, on the Sava River, said that this river Drina would never separate Serbs. Such a man, Mr Albianic, who does not know whether the river Drina or the Sava River is the symbol of not separating but of joining Serbs in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, such a man signed the agreement. I have made this fully illustratingly illustrating that the public, above all, in the Republic of Serbia and also in Republika Srpska, believe that the work of our parliament in Republika Srpska is being followed maximumly. As my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party spoke, I received multiple calls and messages from Serbs from Republika Srpska, I also think of members of my rope and wider family, as well as members of the Serbian Radical Party, which is also my family. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister here said that, so epochally, it is likely that it will be possible for Serbs, or all Serbian citizens, to cross into Republika Srpska, to have their ID card, without passports. That is true, Mr. Minister, but I don't know if you have any information as to how many people have returned from Race and Pavlovic's will before because they have refugee legitimacy, which is originating in some place in Republika Srpska or in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How many could not go to the funeral of members of their family because they were returned from the border. You are in favour of this agreement – never anywhere, I looked for it on the Internet and in the official messengers, I did not see it – but I saw, since I often go in private, and also by party obligations, I saw paper stuck to the crossing of Raca, where it says that with the old refugee legislation you cannot cross the border on Drina. New ones, meanwhile, haven't been issued or, say, ignorant people who haven't read in the paper that they should apply, and no one has personally informed them to replace refugee legislation. So, Mr. Minister and ladies and gentlemen MPs, this is a colorful lie, this paper means nothing, this paper will not formally bring citizens, or Serbs from Republika Srpska and Serbs from Serbia. But you can never write any paper that will in any way separate Serbs from Serbia and Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4418	Dear People's MPs, we've finished our morning work. I'm setting a break of one hour. Resume at 15 o'clock and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4419	I'm sorry we're a little late, I wanted more MPs, but I don't think Mrs. Goca Comic would mind her own microphone. Here you go, Goco. Have Mr. Dejan Mirovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4420	Ladies and gentlemen, it is on the agenda to ratify the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. It is likely that if the subject of ratification had not just been quoted, this would have passed as well as routinely passing the ratification of the agreements that the governments of the countries are making, which require confirmation of the Assembly that the agreement could be applied. However, because the proposal for an agreement that is before us is practically just a reason for one debate, today we have the opportunity to listen, in fact, to two topics. At least on what the content of the agreement is and at least on the procedure, for which the Constitutional Assembly was authorised to implement it when it comes to ratification of the agreement between governments, even if the agreement was signed, six months ago or a year ago. We are awaiting ratifications of agreements that the governments have initialled, which concern, for example, environmental protection or the agreement on the common economic market of South East Europe CEFTA, as well as the ratification of agreements that the governments have initialled, concerning the common electricity community of Southeast Europe, made up of all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and Romania, and Bulgaria, and Albania. So, if it wasn't for the topic proposed, the debate on ratification of the agreement would probably take a short while and end with a vote. However, instead of talking about the ratification process today, we have essentially opened the subject of an analysis of the implementation of the Dayton Agreement. The Dayton Agreement, which is 11.5 years old, will soon be 12 years old, is an agreement signed and made with the consent of Belgrade, Zagreb and Sarajevo, so that in essence you have neither winners nor defeated, and the agreement that was signed was indeed meant to break the war facts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Peace agreements, peace agreements can be signed by the government, but only the people in the territory in which the agreement applies can this peace and stability, and a common life really do. The difference between what governments have in terms of agreements that they sign and the difference between reality can be huge. What's important is that we understand that today's agreement is a direct consequence of the way the Dayton Agreement was conceived and the space that the Dayton Agreement left for the special links of entities with neighbouring countries. The intention and aim, I have no doubt, was to create stable conditions in the region, to create basic conditions that we could move forward, after all together paying the enormous price of one wrong, poorly assessed, catastrophic political and historical project, which is offered to the region, at least from Serbia, and in Serbia at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s. Because basically the story of the implementation of the Dayton Agreement is that, if I may, I would like to make a contribution to today's Bosnia and Herzegovina in numbers from one to six. It's one state that has two entities, has three peoples, has four million inhabitants, five levels of government, which has no other states in Europe and has six international organisations that still, 12 years later, care for how-so public affairs system, public finances, public administrations, all sectors that a country needs to operate. I would not mind that our Assembly, whether at plenary sessions or committees in charge of this, discuss the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, because votes and criticism of the results for the last 12 years are loud in various circles, but I also object to the discussion of the Dayton Agreement, in fact, the the thesis that ethnic identity is the same as political identity. He was never, he wasn't and he won't be, and that delusion is most often established either by communists or national socialists, and the price of these delusions is paid by citizens and citizens, who are mistaken that ethnic identity is the same as political identity. This kind of delusion has essentially led to a debate on what should be our comments and remarks on special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, on a topic and debate that we have never actually opened in society or in the Assembly, which is what the consequences of the Dayton Agreement on the region are and what the consequences of the ten-year project of the 1990s, which now sets out its price. Bad political projects have these qualities to pay citizens for them, so be careful when political decisions are made. What is the direct contribution of this agreement within, I repeat, to CEFTE, meaning one major regional project, which involves the common economic market of Southeast Europe, and within the framework of the EEZ, which means the common energy market? The Dayton Agreement says that countries within the region can achieve special ties, and to the benefit of what they consider the needs of society in one or another country that they sign. Why do I mention these two other regional agreements, whose ratification we will have in this National Assembly sooner or later? Because these are two segments where EU rules will apply. It will be the first two whole segments where the Western Balkans and Southeast European regions will behave equally according to EU rules. Why is it important for me to mention Europe and the EU? Because there was a raised question here about the subject of special relationships involving territorial redistribution on the basis of individual political programmes and I want to share with you an assessment that there is only one future for our region and only one way for all the peoples of the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe to really live as if they are back in one country. It's the EU. The more often and better we will co-operate with both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and within the framework of an agreement that Republika Srpska will have with Croatia, and with Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, the sooner we will have a reformed society and the state, and we and our neighbours, and I really hope in five, ten years, no river will be the border and no result that people from this territory can achieve will be unattainable. One way to get into this process of change together is to ratify this agreement and therefore the DS will support, ratify the Agreement on special parallel ties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4421	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The replica was answered by Mr. Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to hear here a lesson that MP Gordana Comic gave all the other MPs, but I will now try to explain briefly what she said, in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is about. Namely, by reading a letter to us, Gordana Komic reads a letter to those whose views stand for it. Namely, she said, some here wanted to share and identify political and ethnic collectiveities, and these are usually communists and national socialists or Nazis, and I don't know who else. Because of the citizens of Serbia, respecting everything they know, and they certainly know everything that we know, and more than that, I will try to point out some facts, so let people find out who is really who and who is talking about it that way. So, no one here has heard him say a bad word for any minority member, either in Republika Srpska, or in the Republic of Serbia. In Republika Srpska live minority members, therefore, Muslim or, as they like to call themselves, Bosniak nationalities, Croatian nationalities and others, of course, in an irreparably smaller number. As far as Serbia is concerned, it is the people of a number of minorities, I would say almost all minorities are sitting right in these parliamentary benches, mostly in the ranks of the SRS, and we are proud of that. But don't hold our chances around us - we're Democrats, and some others who speak differently and think differently are Nazis, communists or I don't know what. I must tell you, we have been in many parts of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, many of our people have laid their lives on the altar of the country, but we haven't burned the oxen, you've burned the ox, but when Republika Srpska, or Zoran Djindjic, was threatened. When Republika Srpska and the blockade at Drina was threatened, Zoran Djindjic gave up his friend Radovan Karadzic and all other friends he had in Republika Srpska, and decided to help those who made the border on the Drina, he conducted to the extreme limits and had Western support for such a thing. Unfortunately, at that time, the only SRS was against that border and was talking about how and how you do it all against our people. Unbound for all of us to talk a little bit about this communism, Nazism and this European Union as a single country. That's a nice subject. In our country, it has become modern or as they say in our Belgrade "fancy" that you are for the European Union. Now you ask them -- I'm sorry, and you are for those who take away Kosovo and Metohija, are you for those who want to take 15% of the territory there? Well, well, but it's separate processes. After all, we hear that these are not separate processes at all, but that it is important for Serbia to agree and that Serbia accepts that Kosovo and Metohija get secession, and then Serbia no longer exists, Mrs. Comic. Are you talking about Serbia in the European Union, the remains of Serbia in the European Union? Since the European Union wants to see us only as the rest of Serbia, and not as Serbia, are you talking about such Serbia's remains? If I have to choose, I don't know how you're going to characterize it, it's kind of in my family earlier, but I know there are a lot of such Serbian families, I'm always against those great communists of the former, so great emunists today, as Isidora White said. Tomorrow you'll be Chinese, when they're the strongest on the planet, that you'll always be with the strongest nothing else. I kind of feel like what I have in me against it and how it rebelles. We weren't even great communists, even less emunists. Because first of all, we want to be Serbs, and other Serbian citizens, and to have our country to Serbia -- that's what we're looking for. We want Serbia to have and we are interested in Serbia. We're interested, of course, and our people west of Drina and Danube. And you and those who take Serbia away from us and destroy Serbia do whatever you want and whatever you want, but don't push us all into it and don't tell us to talk about the ethnic principle. Because your friends and CObel's employers, Polt, Fried, Burns, I don't even know their names anymore, they're talking... (President: Time.) ) Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, for your patience, I'm done. ... They have one argument all the time when they run out of arguments, I'll remind the citizens of Serbia, eventually the argument comes down to the following -- so you know, the citizens of Kosovo, 90% of them, wants an independent Kosovo. You are free to explain that Albanians are a national minority and that this is impossible because this is destroying international public law. But somehow put it all away. And then when you ask them a question -- I'm sorry, but 99% of Serbs in Republika Srpska don't want to live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't understand these principles somehow. How is that possible? Here we will force Serbs, all against the law, to give the state to a national minority, and here Serbs as a constituent people have no right to decide their fate. The argument comes down to it - whose sheep they are, that's what the field is. These are the fascist principles, and here I agree with you, Mrs. Comic. These fascist principles bring us from the United States and the European Union, those who want to take our territory, those who want to destroy Serbia and destroy Serbia for us. That's what we agree on. We are against such communists and emunists, and all others who destroy our Serbia, and we are like that -- that we love our country more than anything else, our country, because we don't have a spare. That's how it's gonna stay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4423	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The replica appears, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4424	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, before I say if my request for a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure or replica, I must ask you whether you gave the People's Councilman Alexander Vukic a word in the Rules of Procedure or as a replica. So, MP Alexander Vukic received a replica. [[President: As replica.]] I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure and I'd like to ask under Rule 226. The Rules of Procedure of the President of the National Assembly - what was the basis for the replica? (Alexander Vukic, from the site: I will explain.) ) National MP Aleksandar Vukic insists that he will explain. If I were going to ask someone else, I'd ask someone else. So, I'm asking the chairman of the National Assembly, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, on which basis you gave Alexander Vukic a replica of my presentation, without the intention of repeating the exhibition and with the hope that we know each other enough. In no of my words, in any explanation, in any part of my address, I didn't mean any parliamentary group in this assembly. Nor did I feel that the community I wanted to make as a contribution, if used, implies opposing and conflicting with any parliamentary group. So either the chairman, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, couldn't give the replica to Ambassador Alexander Vukic, or you were in what I'm saying hearing what I didn't think or said. I don't have a problem, and I've never had a problem. I've never had a problem. So, if I were to say anything, I'd say it to your face, by name, by mentioning your MP group, by mentioning your function and by expecting a replica of what I have to say. I didn't do it. There was no basis for the replica, but I'm sorry I can't report for the replica of all the ugly, from the depth of my soul the ingratitude that you said by saying the name Zoran Djindjic. Every time you start fighting a dead man for what he wore as an idea, because of what he meant on the political scene of Serbia, because of what he left as an indelible trail of irrevocable reform processes in Serbia, I will listen to you silently every time. I don't want to argue with people who can talk about a dead man with that kind of style and words. He's alive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4425	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. One moment, I have to explain to my wife. I'm obliged to answer to Mrs. Comic. I realized, of course, that Mr. Wolf was looking for a replica and that's why I gave him my word. If I was wrong, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. Now do you want a word in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4426	No, it's a replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4427	Replica. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4428	Sir, you didn't understand me because it was a replica, and Mrs. Comic came out of the business. I know it does, but it doesn't matter much. You know, with the Democratic Party people, I've always liked what they're gonna say to their faces, so they're gonna be the finest. Then somewhere near the end in two sentences, they'll tell you the scariest things on the globe that someone can say to someone, in the most corrupt, most perfident way possible, all acting great kindness and great kindness. I respect that kind of school, that kind of perfidence and corruption in politics, I don't mind. That's where the Democratic Party entered the school. Whether Zoran Djindjic or before that, I can't know exactly, because I'm not sure if I can specify exactly what it was in the 90s and 91s. So, I don't mind. I didn't participate in any way, nor would I wish anything had happened to Zoran Djindjic. I didn't understand that kind of transfer. Yeah, I wish he were alive, 'cause I've told him a hundred times from this place a lot worse than those. You were wicked, because you're not telling the truth. Everything I said told the truth. Do you mind if I announce what Zoran Djindjic once was proud of? Well, he talked to me and boasted to me about how he talked to Radovan and what they talked about when they were at the Palace. We couldn't get to Radovan as much as he loved him until he finally gave up on him. I can tell you one more thing, since there is one witness here to our talks, Cedomir Jovanovic. Let him tell you what I said to Zoran Djindjic in the National Assembly when we were the three of us and we talked here about everything Djindjic did to Serbia. Zoran Djindjic has done a lot of bad things for Serbia and we differ in that. No one thinks there should be any haika, but no glorification of Zoran Djindjic. You think you can bring us a new saint. I'm sorry, I'm celebrating St. Nicholas. Some people celebrate St. Luke, some Holy Archangel, some of this or that glory, but I will not celebrate the glory of Zoran Djindjic, whatever you do, no matter how much you force us through our media to do so. So much so you know. So that's what we're different about. I can tell you that Zoran Djindjic has introduced new methods for the tobacco mafia around many other mafias, these kidnappers, kidnappers and others. No, it's not my theme. I'm not going to tell you that you are dishonest, because I don't think it's appropriate for such dialogue to be conducted by colleagues in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4429	You're right, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4430	I'm right, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4431	Don't have that dialogue, there's no need. If I made a mistake, not now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4432	Don't worry, Mr. Grouchy, that's why I won't do it anyway. I respect Mrs. Comic very much, I'm here with her attitudes, I'd say, I'd say, I'd say, and I'd say different ideas. The ultimate and supreme idea of DS is the political idea of the buttocks, just to make him well that day and nothing more. We have a different idea, an idea that speaks of our country, the Serbian state and the state of all our other citizens. And in that we differ, and in many ways we differ, and in that one would privatise the cementists. Is that what I'm hearing about now that Kolesar is going to be a protected witness, is it possible that this is going to happen, whose names are going to come up who took all the money from the Hollings and on. How much money has gone there, as much as from the Beochen cement factory, where the one who attacked these ministers is, saying that the buccagi will be worn because of Beochen's cement factory. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. ) Mr. Mrkonjic, thank you for your kindness, you know that the time of freedom for Serbia is yet to come. Thank you for allowing me and for a little more time to express the views of the SRS, we will always express those views, the views of free and free Serbia. And here you are, by the Rules of Procedure and by the replicas, we never mind that you go out for a pay phone, we will not seek the basis and reason for your outing for a pay phone or anyone else. It is always nice to exchange political arguments, that Serbian citizens can clearly see who is better, who wants better, or whose ways are roads and methods, in order to get better and which Serbian citizens want to support. Thanks to you again, check with the people in Republika Srpska. I only suggest the following thing, to declare here a law on giving citizenship to our citizens, that is, Serbs in Republika Srpska and Serbs in Montenegro, the same way that the Croats did with the Croats in Herceg Bosnia, so that you can see what election results in those election units, or in those cities and municipalities will be, so it will be clear to you that both Republika Srpska and Serbs in Montenegro, and Serbs from the Serbian Krajina and from all parts of the former Yugoslavia support Serbian Radicals, not DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4433	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The MP, Mr. Dejan Mirovic, should be prepared for Mr. Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4434	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a third agreement on special and parallel ties. The first agreement was signed on February 28th 1997 in Belgrade between the SRJ and Republika Srpska. It was ratified in the Federal Assembly on 20 March 1997. The second agreement between SRJ and Republika Srpska was signed in 2001 in Banja Luka. The third agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska was concluded in Banja Luka on 26 September 2006. It should be noted that the second and third agreements are almost identical. Logically, the question arises, then, why was there a need for a third agreement. The only answer would be that the need for this agreement came after the collapse of the Serbia-Montenegro common state in June 2006. But the legislator does not mention this important fact as a reason for the conclusion of the agreement. So he was probably the right analyst from Banja Luka, Professor. Miodrag Zivanovic, when he linked the signing of the agreement to the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, scheduled for 1 October 2006. Also, unlike the first agreement, which envisioned the regulation of dual citizenship, the second and third agreements do not mention the area. It is known that, at the time, the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Wolfgang Petric, expelled the provisions on dual citizenship under the second agreement in 2001. In addition, the whole 2001 agreement was made in coordination with the High Representative. It is not clear why this significant area is not mentioned in the third, latest agreement. That it is an important issue and a serious failure shows the following facts. According to estimates of Republika Srpska's Chamber of Commerce in 1996, some 1.4 million people lived in Republika Srpska. According to estimates of the Republic Statistics Institute in Republika Srpska, about 1.5 million people lived in 2005. It is estimates, as no census was held in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1995. Also, no census was held in Kosovo and Metohija following the adoption of Security Council Resolution 1244. It was as if someone was responsible for exaggerating the number of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija and reducing the number of Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example, if the results of the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina show that they are approximate figures, another quasi-ative argument for independence, so-called. Kosovo. Also, it was necessary for the special relations agreement to contain a formula for improving co-operation in the area of dual citizenship and for the following reasons. After Montenegro's separation, it was relatively easy to predict that some politicians would try to challenge the dual citizenship agreement concluded between the SRJ and Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2002. That's what happened only a few months after the signing of the special relationship agreement. In early 2007, Bosnia and Herzegovina Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj tried to unilaterally cancel the dual citizenship treaty, although it was ratified by the Sarajevo Assembly. Also, the special relations agreement should contain a provision to improve relations in the area of dual citizenship and because of Serbia's new constitution and a solution to parallel law and international agreements. For example, in Article 13. Serbia's constitution is prescribed ''that the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. ''So, the position of this member indicates that the special relations agreement is not in line with the new Constitution of Serbia. Also, the signatories of the agreement should have in mind the Croatian legislation's solutions. A Croatian citizen from Bosnia and Herzegovina has long had the right to vote in the Croatian Parliament's elections and in the country's referendums. So the same rights should also be given to citizens of Republika Srpska. Such a possibility also allows for solutions from Articles 9 and 13 of the 2002 SRJ-BiH Double Citizenship Treaty, as well as the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the ban and restrictions of the election law of July 2005. It recommends members of the Council of Europe ''to provide electoral rights to all citizens without imposing conditions of residence. ''Unfortunately, due to the political interpretation of the Venice Commission, this recommendation was not valid for 260,000 Montenegrin citizens residing in Serbia and they did not have the right to vote in the referendum. It is precisely this interpretation of the Venice Commission, which requires the condition that citizens must have their residence in a foreign state, could be applied in the case of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The special relationship agreement also envisions an improvement in economic co-operation. According to data from the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Chamber of Commerce in Serbia, goods worth 140 million converting marks were exported in the first seven months of 2007. Republika Srpska's foreign trade deficit in trade with Serbia amounted to 290 million converting marks. However, Serbia was not in 2004, 2005 or among the first 10 investors in Bosnia. In this regard, investments from Serbia should be encouraged, but they must be based on the interests of Republika Srpska and Serbia, not on the interests of foreign financialists, monopolies and creditors. That is why it is difficult to justify a 700m-euro loan provided by the City Group, with a variable interest, by Serbia's Telekom for the purchase of Telekom Srpska. Economist Milan Kovacevic even believes Telekom Srpska has been overpaid for about 200m euros, and that the debt will indirectly be paid back by both the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, it should be pointed out that the City Bank was also an adviser to Telekom Srbija. On the other hand, as an example for foreign investment that triggers production and does not increase debt, a job concluded by the Russian firm Zarubez Neft, which bought two refineries in the Republic of Serbia by 120m euros and pledged to invest another 850m euros to start production. The special relations agreement should retain the formulation used in the 2001 agreement, which mentions the Paris Agreement of 14 December 1995. Apparently, this is not about a major change, because the Dayton and Paris text are one whole, but in circumstances where the same people who signed this peace treaty are working hard on its destruction, it was necessary to highlight the political importance of the Paris Peace Treaty, because it was signed by both the President of the United States and the British Prime Minister and the German Chancellor and the French president, as well as the EU representative. In this respect, it would not only confirm the legitimacy of the special relationship contract, based on Article 3 of the Annex to the 4th Peace Agreement, but would also prevent the replacement of the thesis and legal violence against the Dayton-Paris Agreement. It manifests itself in a constant violation of the agreement, namely Annex 10, which regulates the position of the civilian representative. Articles 2 and 5 shall state the rights of a civilian representative. They are limited by respecting the autonomy of the parties co-operated by a civilian representative. So he can only interpret the peace agreement under the peace treaty, give advice and coordinate the work of the joint bodies. But, by legal violence and by replacing thesis, more specifically by using the so-called The 1997 Bosnian powers, which are essentially a political declaration, rather than an international peace treaty, have been violated by the Dayton Agreement. All senior representatives have since begun to abuse their post, replace legally elected representatives of the people, end the peace treaty and interfere in judicial and legislative power. For example, Petric applied eight decisions a month and Ashdown 14 a month. Even in an internal document, the Council of Europe criticised this practice. Experts from the Institute of European Initiative compared this way of ruling with the one in India in the 19th century. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in 2006 supported the idea of abolishing Bonjska's powers. Ladies and gentlemen, when all the signatories of the common contract do not fulfil their obligations, the serious state changes its policy to that contract. So Russia did on June 14th this year in connection with a conventional arms contract in Europe. She suspended her obligations due to NATO's failure to comply. That's how our country should deal with Article 9. The Dayton Agreement, which regulates co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It should be suspended because other signatories have for many years failed to comply with their obligations under the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4435	National MP Vidoje Jovanovic, let the MP of the people be prepared, Mr Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4436	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska is on the agenda. We can see the basis on which this agreement is based and also areas where co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska should be established. I want to point out, and here many speakers said that we had the first parallel special relationship agreement in 1997, then in 2001 and 2006. The 2006 ratification of the 2006 agreement was minor a year after its signing in Banja Luka. Here we have heard that the first agreement was so significant, these are also significant, and the SPS will support this agreement for the reasons of the importance of this agreement, and it refers to our brotherly people, the Serb people who live outside the queen of our country. However, I am not downplaying the importance of today's minister appointed in front of the government to give an explanation, but we are witnessing that during the first signing here they were representatives of the highest state authorities. I think we should have seen someone here today from the top of the state government, given the importance of the issues we're discussing today. The issue of special relations between Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia must be a practical issue, not a political issue, and to be used as some political marketing in terms of the election. I think it is the attitude of all of us and we here today need to have one unique attitude. It seems to me that we all think so, just asking one question of a concrete relationship, as long as, and in what way our state summit should give support to Republika Srpska, or the survival of Republika Srpska as an entity within BiH. The Republic of Serbia and its state summit must have a complete and clear attitude towards Republika Srpska, and it is expected primarily by our brotherly people across the Drina River. I must point out that the SPS has the view that we should preserve the entity of Republika Srpska, i.e. we must preserve Republika Srpska, because its guarantee is the Dayton Agreement. We can't keep things quiet when it comes to Republika Srpska. We've heard a lot of things here that 57 ingenuity is excluded from the entity. What does that mean? It means that a unitary BiH is created to harm the formation of Republika Srpska. Our state summit has not clearly defined itself and has not given a proper concrete and clear policy and a clear view of this. I think all MPs and citizens, and above all, our Serbs expect it from our leadership. Since I am in a municipality located in the border area, I would like to point out as far as the municipalities of Ljubovije and the municipalities of Bratunac are concerned, that the citizens of both and other municipalities, and here we heard from Mr. Minister about cross-border co-operation of municipalities along Podrinj, have never felt, nor have we considered that the river Drina is the border. That I can convey to you the views of all citizens, both Love and Republika Srpska in Bratunac municipality. I expect that, in addition to all the agreements signed and ratification of this agreement today, this co-operation will be deepened and municipalities along the Drina River will benefit. There is one joint project, which is the construction of a bridge between Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, between the two towns of the municipality of Ljubovija and Bratunac. I hope that after the ratification of this agreement, they will move towards the realization of this project, although it has been agreed on at certain levels. I expect it will certainly not be a problem when it comes to the top of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must also point out that even some international organisations, such as the Regional Centre for Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, Ker International and others, may have worked more on this cross-border co-operation between municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, than we may have created our own opportunities and paths to make it institutionally at the level of our state and Republika Srpska. I expect that this co-operation will not only be in the field of tourism, but in all segments of the economy. So far it has been in the area of education and health, but the SPS requires our state summit to be more clearly defined according to the status of Republika Srpska, and thus it will be easier to realise co-operation in all segments of society, starting with economy, economy, education, health and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4437	Thank you, Comrade Vidoje. The more bridges, the better. I ask Mr. Zoran Despotovic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals are for co-operation with all countries, both Europe and the world, but of course on equal grounds. No one serious, well-intentioned and smart in Republika Srpska and Serbia is against, among which relationships have been established already in 97 years, we can say that the agreement is the best so far, unlike this now. Not for one moment neglecting co-operation with BiH, one nation and two states, one nation and the same problems and the same desire. Separated by other people's will, AVNOJEV's borders, they must seek to increase ties both in the economy, politics, science and all spheres of society, to final unification. Of course, in a peaceful way, when all political and diplomatic opportunities are acquired, both in Europe and in the world. In addition to geographical and economic integration, since I come from these areas, there is also a family bond. A number of citizens have found employment and moving to Republika Srpska and vice versa in time, not to mention events and refugees after the break-up of Yugoslavia. All that is stated is extremely important for the citizens of Serbia and Republika Srpska, and of course it does no harm to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4439	Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic gave up the discussion. I ask Nebojsa Stefanovic to take the floor, and may Mr Bozidar Delic be prepared, the SRS has 18 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that the future of the Republic of Serbia, the Republika Srpska and the Serb people in both countries is exactly the most important thing we need to talk about today. In addition, we should strive as hard as possible, as tightly as possible and as close as possible to the co-operation of two Serbian states, with the desire to live in a single Serbian state someday. Unfortunately, I know that many do not understand it, and that some MPs here would look forward and advocate entry into the European Union, and in who knows what other integrations, even if representatives of these organisations came here and directly advocated, as they do on a daily basis, for the abduction of 15% of Serbian territory in Kosovo and Metohija. The agreement, which is before us, unfortunately, was made primarily for political reasons at the pre-election moment, when individual parties were to be presented as patriotic and when voters were to be acquired. I say, unfortunately, because this agreement does not show a genuine desire to create such a kind of state and make this agreement so as to make it possible for people in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska to live better, to be truly free, to be safe, because that freedom is exactly what Serbs in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska are missing today. The special relationship agreement must be much more detailed, politically more important than this agreement that is before us today. The Republic of Serbia must do everything in its power to protect the interests of the Serb people and in our country, but also in Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, this agreement, which is very general in its character, sets up links with another state of the Serbian people in a way that can be done with any other country in the world. As Mr Tomislav Nikolic said earlier today, this is an almost one trade agreement, in which there is no fundamental basis for calling it special, in such a way that the people of the Republic of Serbia and the people of Republika Srpska deserve it. The Republic of Serbia must be prepared for such an effort to do everything to defend the autonomy of Republika Srpska, but only as a first step towards the creation of a single Serbian state, which should also be the goal of these congregations, because it is the will of both the peoples of Serbia and the people of Republika Srpska. All countries in the world pay huge attention to co-operation with countries where the lowest percentage of their people live. I don't have to go so far as to tell you that the United States is sending aircraft carriers to protect and a couple of its inhabitants anywhere in the world. It is enough to look at countries in the environment, all of which are less obediently oriented towards the countries of the West than it is Serbia today, and which do everything to protect each of its inhabitants. And here we are talking about a country whose majority people are, and it's an absolute majority Serbian people. I don't mean anything by it, nor does the SRS have anything against any other people. It is precisely because of the hypocritical attitude of the United States and the European Union, which at the same time advocates the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, 15% of our territory, and on the other hand fully advocate the destruction of Republika Srpska and the abolition of all its essential autonomous capabilities, that is another reason why the Republic of Serbia must do everything and that in this place clearly says, and that other documents should be provided for, that the Republic of Serbia will never allow, nor acknowledge, the abduction of its territory, and at the same time, will do everything to create a single state with the Republic of Serbia. As for the work on the implementation of this agreement, I think that a much more significant part should have belonged to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given our republican arrangement and that we are parliamentary democracy. Because because we are in the situation we are in today, we have that this National Assembly cannot discuss the situation of Kosovo and Metohija for months, the negotiations being conducted, the people participating in these negotiations, the previous and future moves of the government, we can again come to the situation that special relations with the Republic of Serbia cannot be discussed again for months or not properly informed. For this very reason, I think it would be perfectly normal and much better if representatives of the National Assembly, the MPs, were represented directly in implementing this agreement, and thus the citizens of Serbia would be much better informed. Not to mention the fact that when I was recently in Bratunc on the mention of Serbian victims, 5,000 Serbian victims who were masculinely murdered in this area, no one mentions, no one else is fighting for, that the truth is heard about it, I've never seen either the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister, or any of their cabinets, or any minister, or even any state secretary. No one's entitled to come there. Of course, Milorad Dodik proved to be a true coalition partner of both the DS and the DSS, not a man appeared either, he was not interested, nor was he president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Serbian victims can go into oblivion. That is another reason why I think the participation of the National Assembly in such an important agreement was crucial. There will never be borders on the Drina or anywhere else between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska for the SRS. The Serbian people in both countries are exactly the same for us and there is no difference, whether they live in Belgrade, Banja Luka or anywhere else in these two countries. We, in addition to all the major shortcomings that this agreement carries, will support its ratification, because it is a common life and a single state of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's inevitability, because it is the unsustainable desire of the Serbian people in both countries, and it is our only effort to make that time come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4441	Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4442	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, as Serbian radicals, we will never and can never be against establishing a relationship between Serbian states, because the very idea of our party's existence implies uniting the territory of Serbian states. But what bothers me at the very beginning is the very name of this document, which is quite obnoxious and difficult to explain. By reading this document, I have no idea what special relationships are and what is special about this document. I guess it should be something special that comes from the Dayton Agreement, but it's not in this document. What exists in this document is an agreement that is otherwise signed and can be signed with any other state. And what kind of special relationships do we need, especially if it's two parts of the same people? If the agreement provides for the formation of a council for co-operation, which, as foreseen here, is to be met three months ago, then it was completely unnecessary for us to be referred here by the Minister for Local Self-Government. As it was written in the document itself, there was supposed to be a foreign minister, but today we received some kind of unfavorable statement for his absence. Since only the prime minister and president of Serbia, as members of that council, represent Serbia in that body, today it was just necessary for one of them or both to appear here, and to speak about what they have done so far on these special parallel ties and what they have predicted to do in the future. If we are referring to the Dayton Agreement, where Serbia, on the basis of continuity, also appears as a guarantee of the preservation of Republika Srpska, it is practically not seen in this agreement and is not particularly stressed. That one point that guaranteed it in the previous agreement has been deleted. What then consists of the defence of Dayton and the defence of Republika Srpska when it is clear to everyone that everything that has been done and what has been the mark of Republika Srpska, as a state, has almost disappeared. One MP said more than 50 different Republika Srpska ingeries were shut down and transferred to the Federation. I'm just talking about what's most important. Republika Srpska's army has disappeared, Republika Srpska customs, Republika Srpska's judiciary, Republika Srpska's border service has disappeared. It's all transferred to the Federation. Republika Srpska is currently only preserved as a name. The fight is being fought around Republika Srpska police. Of the three most important ingenuities of Republika Srpska police, two have already been transferred to the Federation. This agreement has many shortcomings. According to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the problem is that this is not a law that can be corrected by amendments, but is as it has been given to us, and certainly worse than all the agreements we have had so far with Republika Srpska. It's obvious that he was brought forward in an election campaign. You remember well, especially gentlemen on the left, the euphoria that reigned during the election campaign in Republika Srpska, the call for a referendum and support the ruling set by the Republic of Serbia gave a political option in Republika Srpska. I don't mind the statesmen of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska being in good relations and visiting as often as possible. But at that time, it was purely for election purposes, because then the presidents and prime ministers were at games, concerts, and almost every day on one territory or another. As the euphoria has passed, something does not meet often, even monthly. As for this three-month encounter, it seems they're waiting for us to vote and confirm this agreement, and then they'll start to meet. We here in Belgrade via Ade Gypsies already have one virtual bridge of the Democratic Party. The second such bridge is located across the Sava, not as the prime minister said -- via Drina, at the Raca crossing. At 50 meters before the ramp and entrance to the old road-rail bridge, there is a board that says: "This bridge is built by the means of the National Investment Plan"; and there is no bridge anywhere. However, I think some who have ordered it to be written or have problems with verbs or perhaps with all of Serbian grammar. I'm afraid this deal doesn't go as well as that virtual bridge, which we'll be waiting on for years, maybe tens of years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4443	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search, does the proposing representative, Mr Milan Markovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4444	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can express my satisfaction with this discussion because it is motivated by concern for the relations of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska and by the care of the Serb people living in Republika Srpska and BiH. In that regard, I also understand all the objections referred to on the proposal of this Agreement. Of course, I expect and hope that our National Assembly will ratify this agreement and meet the expectations of citizens, or our people in Republika Srpska, since refusing to ratify such an agreement would be a bad message to our fellow citizens in Republika Srpska, and objectively to all who would like to hear such or such news from this high house. So I urge you to adopt this bill and ratify the agreement with the Republic of Serbia. I hope that the National Assembly itself will take advantage of all the opportunities set out in Article 7 of this Agreement and will achieve successful co-operation with the Republika Srpska Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4445	I am concluding a unique search of the bill. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle and in general in the voting day. Before we move to the 2nd item of the agenda, to read a memo that just arrived to the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, Mrs Tamara Stojcevic: "Dear Mrs Stojcevic, we would like to inform you that in view of our contractual obligations, as well as marketing obligations tonight, 16. Seventy-seven. In 2007, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in the Second Programme of RTS after 17.55 hours, due to the transfer of the Brazil-Serbia basketball game from the World Cup. ''With respect, RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European History of Local Self-Government You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, MP group "Liberal Democratic Party" - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. The authorised representative of the SRS is Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go, Mr. Markovic. I'm trying to show the citizens that we can be better, because we're the worst placed in the citizens' ratings. I'm convinced we don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4446	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Republic of Serbia, as everyone knows, took over the six-month chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers in May 2007, with the area of local self-government installed in four of the most important priorities of the presidency itself. One of the repeated commitments is to confirm or ratify the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We took the obligation, like Serbia-Montenegro, on 3 April 2003, when we joined the Council of Europe. The obligation was to ratify this charter within two years. Due to well-known circumstances and functioning of the state union, Serbia-Montenegro has not ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is now an opportunity for parliament to carry out that ratification. The European Charter of Local Self-Government itself was adopted in Strasbourg in 1985. In 1988, she came into effect. The 46-member Council of Europe document was accepted by 42 members, only four countries did not accept or ratify the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Charter is based on the principle that local authorities are one of the main foundations of each democratic system, i.e. the principle that the right of citizens to perform public affairs can be achieved at the local level most directly. The principles contained in the Charter are not designed to limit the freedom of the signatories countries in their quest to build an even more advanced local self-government, but to include standards that should necessarily be respected as an acceptable minimum for the perception of local self-government within the member states of the Council of Europe. In this regard, standards under which no Member State of the Council of Europe should go into the notion of local self-government. Under the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, all signatories accepted the obligation to sign and ratify this document, i.e. after its entry into force, to comply with their legislation with the provisions of the Charter. According to Article 12. The Charter, each Contracting State, agrees that it is required to accept provisions of at least 20 positions contained in Articles 2 to 11. Command. The issues covered by the Charter are the constitutional and legal basis of local self-government, the concept of local self-government, the scope of local self-government, the conditions of authority at local level, the financial resources of local authorities, the right of local authorities to association and the legal protection of local self-government authorities. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and other Regulations governing the area of local self-government are fully in line with the conventions and standards of the Council of Europe and other European organisations, i.e. the standards provided for by the European Charter of Local Self-Government de facto in Serbia are already met. In this regard, you will see in the Charter proposal, Article 3 states: "In the course of the surrender of the ratification instrument for the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the Republic of Serbia will make a statement of the following content - the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 12. The European Charter of Local Self-Government will be deemed mandatory to accept the following provisions... "and now it's listed here, you can see it on this 16-page page, lists the members and attitudes that we as a state accept. In fact, it is about the attitudes that we have already implemented in our legislation and there are 24 of them. So we have fulfilled more than what is necessary in order to meet the obligations following the ratification of this document. I therefore urge you to make sure that our commitment stemming from our membership in the Council of Europe, our commitment that we should have fulfilled three years ago, to meet now, that this Parliament adopts this law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government, first of all bearing in mind that as a state we have long met the standards provided for by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In doing so, I would also like to say that by looking at the comparative right, by looking at the analysis of the Council of Europe relating to the system of local self-government, I must say that the local self-government system in Serbia is quite well set up and that we are not at all lagging behind the developed European countries, which, of course, does not mean that we will not bother to trust our units of local self-government, to give our future cities as much authority as possible, so that they can develop more quickly, dynamically, in order to have the chance, in accordance with their abilities, their capabilities, to achieve faster economic and any other development for the citizens who live in them. In any case, this is one beautiful opportunity to confirm everything that we have managed to do so far, and one beautiful opportunity, in the end, to confirm our commitment to further development of local self-government as an important assumption of the development of democracy in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4447	Thank you, Mr. Milan. Do the representatives of the committees want a word, Mr. Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, radicals have been known since the end of the 19th century as fighters for the developed and strong local self-government in Serbia. Since the time of Nikola Pasic, Pere Todorovic, Stojan Protic, we have advocated and advocated a local self-government that will be strong, developed and in the interest of the local population. Today, we have before us a bill on confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Like any international document, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is a set of certain principles, namely certain principles on which local self-government should rest in countries that are members of the Council of Europe, and most of these principles, and most of these principles are not foreign or SRS. Of course, there are certain provisions in the European Charter of Local Self-Government for which we in the SRS believe that, above all, they are not in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then they are not in line with the interests of citizens living in our municipalities and cities. A particular problem that constantly arises when the Serbian government is proposing certain laws, as is the case in this case, is the language the draft laws are written on. Here, let me take my turn. I remind Mr. Markovic of Article 3. European Charter of Local Self-Government. As I suppose MPs of the ruling coalition, in their good practice, have not read the material that has come to them, I will read it: "Rightly, in terms of the right to local self-government, will be given advice or assembly, composed of members who are freely elected by secret vote, based on the direct, equal and general right of vote, who may have executives who are responsible for them. This provision does not in any way remove the possibility of a congregation, a referendum, or any other form of direct participation, where they are permitted by the statute. '' Minister Markovic told us for a moment that we in our laws have already implemented the provisions of this European Charter and that our local self-government is already compatible with the systems of local self-government that exist in the Member States of the Council of Europe. However, it is our Law on Local Self-Government, which was passed in 2002, that is not compatible with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. If you remember, Mr Markovic, we also warned the legislator of the law on local self-government that it is not a good solution for the assembly of the municipality, i.e. the city's assembly to be given the same political legitimacy as it is given to the president of the municipality or mayor. The phenomenon led to many local self-government in Serbia being unable to function normally. Temporary measures have been introduced in many municipalities. Local congregations are disbanded, and one of the main reasons is that the president of the municipality is not from the same political option that represents the majority in the municipality. And because the two political factors cannot agree, there is a blockade of local self-government, there is a blockade in the work of public enterprises, the founder of which is local self-government and consequently the Serbian government is introducing temporary measures. We then warned you that the only authority to have full democratic capacity at the level of local self-government must be the municipality and no one else. You've given the president of the municipality the same political legitimacy, and that's exactly the opposite of Article 3 of Title 2. European Charter of Local Self-Government. It clearly tells you that it is only the advice or assembly that should come directly from the will of the citizens. All other executive bodies should come from the congregation, or the congregation’s majority. Had you done so in 2002, as suggested by the Serbian Radical Party, many problems in our municipalities and our cities would have been avoided. In the summer of 2006, the Serbian government made a pompous announcement that probably does not exist in any country in the environment, which is the National Investment Plan. The practice so far has been for municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, which can also receive funding from the National Investment Plan, to submit projects to the Serbian government, or to the competent ministry, these projects must be detailed, exhaustive and see what local self-government wants to do on a specific issue. Here, Mr. Markovic, another denial of your statement that you have already installed the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government in your regulations. Article 9(7) The European Charter of Local Self-Government says, listen well, I don't know why he's not here for the National Investment Plan, this also refers to him: "Subsidies to local authorities will not be, as far as possible, intended to finance certain projects. The subsidy fee will not remove the basic right of local authorities to have freedom of political decision within their jurisdiction. "If you had respected this provision in 2006, when you adopted the National Investment Plan, none of your National Investment Plan would have happened. Your National Investment Plan, as you imagined it, is not compatible with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Furthermore, Article 9 paragraph 8: "For the purpose of lending for capital investment, local authorities will have access to the national capital market under legal opportunities". Mr. Minister, I remind you of one fact, which is that the Constitution of Serbia, Article 190, requires the responsibilities of the municipality as units of local self-government. Neither of the provisions of Article 190 states that the municipality as a unit of local self-government should be the subject of stock exchange events, i.e. a participant in stock exchange manipulations and transactions. If you adopt a bill confirming the European Charter, with Article 9, paragraph 8, then you are in fact violating the Constitution of Serbia. The municipality in Serbia is not designed as someone to participate in stock exchange transactions, to deal with the sale and purchase of capital, or securities of value, the municipality in Serbia is imagined quite differently, as a political unit that should meet the local needs of the local population. If you open the door to the stock exchange for municipalities, or cities, if you allow municipalities to trade securities of value, to borrow municipalities or to be entities that borrow money, then you will open the door to numerous abuses at the level of local self-government. Let me remind you, for several years, representatives of both the current and former ruling coalitions have been talking about the so-called The local property. No matter how tempting that concept sounds, it is essentially very dangerous because it opens the door to numerous abuses with that property. You go from one principle that has not been proved in practice, that centralization itself represents something bad, and that decentralisation is always something that is good. He was an old Hungarian law professor, so when they asked him if he was better centralised or decentralisation, he told them -- well, it depends on who's in the center, or who's at the bar. If there are smart people in the center, then it's better centralised, if there are smart people at the bar, then it's better decentralisation. The question arises what happens if we adopt the European Charter Act, with Article 9 paragraph 8, if we turn the municipality into a stock exchange transaction entity, what happens to the interests of citizens in that municipality, whether it will be misused with the municipal budget, whether the money or the funds identified by the budget will be misused for certain purposes, whether it will be placed on the capital market, who will control it, etc. You open Pandora's box, you open up the possibility of wide manipulation and abuse with the budgets of local self-government, which already exist. If you adopt this, there are practically no more boundaries and there are no more ways to control how the funds of local self-government are spent. You have now read our statement that we will give to the Council of Europe concerning Article 12. European Charter of Local Self-Government. However, Mr. Minister, I remind you of the fact that the Republic of Serbia is currently fighting to preserve its territorial integrity and to preserve Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. This is an ideal opportunity to confirm before the Council of Europe our willingness to defend Serbia's territorial integrity at all costs, and the European Charter of Local Self-Government itself is our order. Article 16(1) reads as follows: "Any State may, at the time of signature or when depositing instruments of ratification, accession or acceptance, specify the territory or territories to which this Charter applies." This is an ideal opportunity to tell the Council of Europe once again, and to all the Member States of the Council of Europe and the European Union that the Republic of Serbia is firmly defined to defend its territorial integrity and to defend the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija within Serbia. In the Serbian Radical Party, we believe that this statement, which the Republic of Serbia will make before the Council of Europe, must be complemented by one finding that the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government will apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the language of the Bill on Confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government is concerned, it is bad. Anyone who deals with the translation of foreign texts into their own language knows that there is a single school rule: it is important to guess the essence of the text being translated, but not literally and literally download the terminology from the foreign text. I will now give you a whole series of examples where the terms used in the Bill on Confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government have nothing to do with the Constitution of Serbia, the Law on Local Self-Government, or the spirit and tradition of the Serbian language. In several members of the bill, you have one syntagma that, I don't know if anyone is using it in Serbia, it says - within the legal limits. We in Serbia say it much simpler and much nicer - within the limits of the law, not within the framework of legal constraints. That is the same formula you have in Article 4(2). Furthermore, you, Minister, do not know if you know your full title, not the Minister of State Administration, and you do not know clearly, but rather the Minister of State Administration. I don't know why, then, in the bill of confirmation of the European Charter, instead of using the constitutional word - the state administration, you use the word - administration. This may seem to you like a cleavage, like a legal trinket, but it is very important that every law that is passed in this assembly, including laws that confirm international contracts, be in accordance with its own terminology with the Constitution of Serbia. In the United States and Great Britain, the term - administration is used. The same term is also used in most Romanian, French, Italian, etc., but in Serbian, the word "government" or the full name of state administration is used, and you, Ministers, Minister of State Administration, and not for the state administration. I don't know what they're going to say to you, like administrative surveillance, when the Constitution of Serbia, when the Law on State Administration, when the Law on Local Self-Government uses terminology -- supervision of the work of local self-government. The supervision is conducted by a competent ministry, which I repeat once again, is called - the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It's not the same administration and management. The administration includes that professional, official part of the state apparatus, which doesn't change. When it's said - state administration, then you think of the top of the state pyramid, you think of ministers, you think of state secretaries. Furthermore, at moments the English translation is literally such that man cannot cope, but he can only guess what the translator was going to say. Here, Mr. Minister, try to understand the provision of Article 9(5). European Charter of Local Self-Government. Of course, we in the SRS know what the meaning of this provision is, we can figure out her goal, but the common man who reads this is hardly going to be able to handle it. The 5th Article 9 stance reads as follows: "Protection of financially weaker local authorities requires", now watch out for the wording "institution of financial equalisation of procedures or similar measures that should correct the effects of unequal distribution of potential sources of funding and of financial burden to which they should support". If you can repeat this sentence without looking at the text, it's an honor. ''Such procedures or measures will not diminish the freedom to decide the local authorities that they have within their own spheres of responsibility. Next, in Article 10(1), you use one word that has nothing to do with existing legal regulations. Local authorities have the right to co-operate and, within the framework of the law, create, pay attention to the term, "consortions with other local authorities in order to achieve tasks of common interest". You, Mr. Minister, are a graduate lawyer, studying Roman law in the first year of law school, and you know that the consortium is in fact the original form of a Roman family. Later the word consortium is used primarily in economic-legal terminology to mark certain forms of bank association and other business entities, but the words to the consortium have no place in local self-government, when we have in Serbian our own term, which is community or association. Then you don't remain faithful to your own terminology. In Article 10, point 1, you say - a consortium of local authorities, and in the second position of the same member you say - association. Identify yourself for one terminology. The basic rule in nomotechnics, in writing the law, is that uniform terminology is used from the beginning to the end, and not in one article you use the word consortium and you immediately use the word association in the second position, and neither the consortium nor the association are Serbian words, and you have in Serbian a number of domestic terms that signify the same term. In the end, Mr. Minister, you seem to think that the explanation is not an integral part of the bill's proposal, any law, or even the law on the confirmation of the European Charter, and apparently you write those arguments by inert, mechanically, it's probably written by your employees at the Ministry, you probably don't read it, or if you read it over some important parts. We in the SRS read everything, as much as time allows, from beginning to end, and pay attention to every word. Whether or not the parties of the ruling coalition are treated the same way, but I draw your attention to a formula that is ridiculous. If such a formulation was used by a primary school student, he'd probably get a weak grade. Paragraph 2 of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Charter - reasons for the adoption of the law, and among other things the last sentence reads as follows: "Therefore, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to inform the Council of Europe of all relevant information regarding the legal provisions and other measures taken to comply with the provisions of this Charter. ''So, the Republic of Serbia undertakes this law to inform the Council of Europe of relevant information. Such provisions are ridiculous. We from the SRS draw your attention, I don't know which way, take care of the terminology and the language you write the bill and other acts you provide to the MPs in the National Assembly. Someone's been reading these bill proposals. Tomorrow they may be read by ordinary citizens. Tomorrow they may be read by students, and this may also come to the means of public information. We'll laugh at the world if we use the kind of terminology you're using right now. We draw your attention again, since some other laws need to be approved in the agenda, make sure that when you translate foreign texts, you translate the essence rather than literally and literally take over foreign terminology, which has nothing to do with either the Serbian language or our constitutional and legal terminology. And take very good care of how you explain the bill. You can't just formally fulfill a business obligation and say, you know, we've given a law in the congregation procedure, which has an explanation. This explanation is ridiculous. If you show up in front of the Council of Europe with such bill proposals, none will be of your desire to join European associations, European integration, the NATO Pact, the EU, etc. You'll be ridiculous. But we don't care if you're gonna be funny. It will be a shame for the National Assembly and for the state of Serbia if such laws are adopted in the Serbian Parliament. That is why we draw your attention, take care of both the constitutional and the legal and the language sides of any proposal for an act that you provide to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4449	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic, authorised DSS-Nova Serbia-Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4450	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, I must agree with a colleague who spoke before me, which is that this text of the law could have been better translated. It is, of course, translation, because the original text was adopted in the Council of Europe in English. But it does not diminish the importance of the bill that we are talking about today. One of the preconditions for democratisation of society is the principle of decentralisation of government. The essence of decentralisation consists of determining the character of local self-government. To try to define the optimal scope and the nature of decentralisation, the Council of Europe adopted the European Charter of Local Self-Government in 1985. The charter is in fact the first and only international convention that defines and protects the principles of local self-government in Europe. The document has been ratified by nearly all member states of the Council of Europe, and Serbia has taken the obligation to sign and ratify the Charter within two years of accession to the Council of Europe. So, we're a little late. The decentralisation process in Serbia is running slowly and continues to be dominated by centralisation and hierarchical relations between the centre and local authorities in some segments. Reform changes are still ahead in the direction of strengthening local authorities' autonomy and creating partner relations. Local authorities must strengthen their capacities to carry out a number of important tasks through the upcoming reforms. However, it should be borne in mind that this charter does not prescribe some ideal model of local self-government, but merely sets standards in the rights of local authorities under which it should not go. The decentralisation of the authorities implies the transfer of competence from the highest state authorities to the lower. By decentralisation, the state authorities shall waive the works of their responsibilities on behalf of the local authorities. So that's the concept of division of power. This also implies the right of citizens and authorities of local self-government, which they choose to establish their own policy and to implement it. The Charter says the powers given to local authorities are in principle full and exclusive. She can't be limited to another central government. State authorities, as a rule, do not have the right to reconsider the purpose of local self-government decisions, but only their compliance with higher legal standards. In this respect, the competences conferred by the State at local level become the original competences of those authorities. More and more talk lately about greater participation, i.e. citizens' participation in the context of the local community. As one of the key elements for democratisation at the lowest institutional level, so-called. A bottom-up approach, under which the active role in the planning and decision-making process is played by citizens and local authorities, who, through joint co-operation, decide on the direction of development of a particular community and region. This co-operation must be the basis for both good planning and good governance. I will list several more objectives set by this Charter: achieving greater unity among the Member States of the Council of Europe; focusing on cross-border co-operation; strengthening neighbourly relations and removing administrative and technical barriers in cross-border co-operation; achieving a higher level of agreement on the administrative plan; respect for the principle of democracy in terms of citizens' rights to participate in public affairs; and ultimately, creating effective and citizens of close local self-government. So I suggest we adopt, or vote in favour of this bill and ratify this charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4451	Thank you, Mrs. Donka. Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4452	I have reported to Mrs. Donkey that, before she agrees so much with the radicals, this text was sent to the Assembly in the same form by your minister from your party in identical form. But it's a good thing you didn't intervene then, don't run faster or better to agree with Serbian radicals, but unlike them you read the text, and this part that's in English, you'll see that everything they said about terms is simply not true. So the original text in English, in two terms, uses different terms. Among other things, this is an official translation, a translation that has been signed since we signed the charter and accepted the obligation to ratify it. So these are topics we don't need to get into here. I repeat, there is no need to run and lie with something, especially someone who hasn't even read it, and then try to get out of that translation as many remarks as possible, just so that the objections exist, and it is clear to all of us that in the European Charter of Local Self-Government and its translation there is nothing questionable. If someone has a commitment and a desire not to ratify the European Charter of Local Self-Government and if they think we simply shouldn't go that way, it's his legitimate right. But that should be said openly, and not to say -- here, you know, the translation here isn't good, here you know, this here doesn't agree with this, and this decimal is a little bit weird, maybe it's a little longer than it's supposed to be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4453	I ask the Minister not to destroy the Assembly's unity. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, and Mrs. Donka. Just. Mr. Nikolic has a word for the Rules of Procedure, so you have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4454	It should be noted that Mr. Minister does not insult the MPs, in particular that he does not speak falsely about whether the MPs have read or not read the bill. A team before the Serbian Radical Party MP spoke of the members and views of the laws he found, in his opinion, mistakes. It's impossible for ministers to do that if you haven't read the law. Don't insult us, Minister. Do not go away from yourselves, for for years you have been an apostle who has not read any law in his life. You haven't even been in the O.R. in two years, and you've been getting paid, your journals and all the other expenses. Minister, this cannot be applicable at all to members of the Serbian Radical Party. On the other hand, find me one provision of this charter that has not been applied in Serbia, in the Constitution, in laws or in practice. Find, Mr. Minister, where Serbia does not meet the requirements of this charter. Here you convince us that someone cares not to adopt this charter. It's green, Mr. Minister. It is July, but you're somewhere in the stage where the plums are shaved, when the flower falls and the fruit should be formed. Don't tell the truth, and don't argue with the MPs and don't talk about it -- how the only thing you've been able to do since you've been a minister is take the old laws and offer them to the Assembly for adoption. Write something of yours, Minister, boast of something of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4455	There's a word from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Donka.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4456	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because the minister has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. In all this which is a bad translation, Mr. Minister, how you took over and took office, when you voted for yourself, when you couldn't do it, you lacked a lecturer. As you have already said and as it says in this text, this is a document from the Council of Europe, signed in 1985. If I hadn't been, like the president of our parliamentary group and colleagues Donka Banovic, now I have for the first time, and they have more experience, especially Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mr Todorovic, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would think that's the way to do it. However, it is that the documents coming there are in front of MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which, of course, will be in line with its profession and counterpart Banovic will tell you, in some specific slang. Just take Article 9th point 7, which I think my colleague Martinović was talking about, and we also commented on the table of the chair, how rhogobatical and catastrophic translation it is. Here I believe, Mr. Minister, since you are for Europe, for the European Union, I believe that, besides legal knowledge and on the other hand, you are an educated man, to speak English, to read and write, see just how ridiculously translated point 7 is about the commission of funding local self-government. Then don't talk to us, especially Mr. Nikolic, with their perfect knowledge of language that we don't speak, because we prefer to speak Serbian. But just so you know, they're not radical people without knowledge and they don't know what it says. If we go from one point to another you will see, and I guess that your language knowledge has helped you to understand, that the disastrous translation and that the essence, even the essence, is authentically translated from word to word from English language is ridiculous in relation to the terminology that is applied, as Mr. Martinovic told you, in Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4457	Thank you, Natasha. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4458	Mr. Minister, I don't view this bill of confirmation as your-our. The minister before you was Dr. Zoran Loncar and then it was addressed to the Assembly, but even then I am experiencing it, and that proposal has not been changed, and it has also been bad. The fact that someone in the SRS pointed out that it wasn't good doesn't have anything to do with it. He could say that to someone from DS, I'd agree with him, or the SPS, however you want. If you don't understand the sentence correctly, not to say the whole article, then the translation is not good. I'm sorry to say that, because it's often mentioned here, the translator has made a mistake, you have in the last year so many mistakes that translators have made to God. When I started, I said the translation could be better and I'm not saying that you, maybe it's some previous set before you did, but it doesn't change the fact that it's not very good, because that good should be well understood and there you have a formulation and members that you don't understand very well. I had no intention of insulting you. Of course, the DSS supports this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4459	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. Mr Dragan Todorovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr Martinović - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say I understand Mr. Secretary in some way. Because what was given to the MPs and what he assumed would not be read, it was based on his own experience from his party. They're people who haven't been in parliament for two years, taking salaries, and then at one point they decided that part of those salaries was intended for some humanitarian activity. Where you're going, Minister, I was just about to read you Article 7, this first position, which says: 'The conditions under which representatives elected at the local level work should be such as to ensure the free performance of their functions. '"Imagine this first position for the yellow company. They no longer have a name or a last name, they're a mystery 5%, 6%, 7%, so as far as they come. You give such a law, or text written like this to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, and when you are well-intentioned on this, you cannot find an adequate argument, to really defend it with facts, because this is impossible to defend. Guys, just take this first position of Article 7, so I don't read this article any further. In order to get over this in some way, you feel that it will be the easiest way to overcome it by immediately showing how much love is within your own coalition. It's just amazing how much you can't wait to get to the throat. The first chance you get to take advantage of it, and it's not a problem at all, that we understand, that we know, that you can't deceive not only us here, but you can't deceive the citizens. It just shows what the character of this government is. I'm worried because I'm sure this relationship within the ruling coalition can't bring anything good to the citizens of Serbia, but you don't understand. How you, who can't wait to get by the throat in front of the public, how you're just acting in other situations where it's necessary to cooperate. Where we can in any way conclude that there is co-operation between you; nowhere. You simply distributed power as prey, and that's the only reason why it serves you a political struggle, to get to the prey to use for your own purposes, and that's why you destroyed this country, so after seven years we barely survive. So wherever you look, there's nothing but a wasteland behind you. The only thing you measure, you measure what's left is what you haven't been able to sell so far. You think it's your only chance by pointing out on time, it's worth nothing to you. There's no time for you. I understand you understand that, too. All you have left is your intention to sell, and that's the NIS, that's the EPS and a couple of public enterprises and get the job done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4461	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The replica was answered by Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic and have the first debater Miletic Mihajlovic prepare, I assume there will be no more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4462	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Minister of State Administration, and not for the state administration, has escaped from the O.R. He obviously doesn't have the courage to face the MPs of the SRS. What I said, here you are to defend him, you are brave when you throw away, in no evil sense, and I did not say that Mr. Milan Markovic is a bad man. I just said that the bill is bad and that the text of the European Charter was translated into a beginner, student, literally, that no account was ever taken of the Serbian literary language used in the Republic of Serbia. One more thing, what I forgot to say in the previous presentation, here's the minister, I thank him for that, gave me a chance to show it; you see, in Article 12. The European Charter of Local Self-Government are the provisions suggested by the Council of Europe to the signatories that they should accept. However, we in Article 3. We undertake to make a statement that we accept more provisions than those that seek the Council of Europe itself. I do not understand the intention of the current owners in Serbia to be greater Catholics than the Pope. You can't be bigger Europeans than those who wrote the European Charter of Local Self-Government, you can't, it's just impossible. I don't know who makes you accept those provisions that are not mandatory for the Member States of the Council of Europe, and especially to accept provisions that you yourself know are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you of Article 194(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that ratified international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You cannot hide behind your European rhetoric and say that this is in line with European standards, it is a step closer to European integration, etc. You've been repeating that story for years as parrots. There's something called the Constitution. With the Constitution, no other regulation can be contrary, even ratified contracts, and even contracts that you say are approaching the EU, the Council of Europe, to Euro-Atlantic integration, whatever that means. So make sure that certain provisions of the European Charter bill are not in line with the Serbian Constitution. As far as translation is concerned, I've already said, the translation is bad and the minister of local administration can't defend himself by that, so to speak, it entered the assembly procedure when I wasn't a minister. That's what I said last time I put it behind this speaker, you can't defend yourself by that, no one forced you into government. When you entered the government, you took the risk of what was wrong with the previous government. You've assumed the rights and obligations of the previous government. When a man dies, then his heirs inherit not only his houses, fields and cars, but also inherit his debts, so you too inherited the debt of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. It's funny your argument that Mr. Markovic was not a minister at the time, but was a national MP. What do we care? He was aware of the commitments the Serbian government made two and three years ago, and knew when it came to the Minister of State Administration and local self-government that it would have to do what the previous minister had not done. The government of Serbia usually gives Mr. Markovic hot potatoes in his hand, so he explains here what cannot be explained, let them handle it in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4463	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4464	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't understand you colleagues from the DS, who are so keen to prove you're back 17 years, but you're always associated with someone against the radicals and where you come to the power of kidnapping and commission, here's this justice minister of yours is 10 percent, or what they call him, the Whispers, is that right, Mr. Master, you're telling us about it and you're throwing it out of the bench -- what do you want and what bothers you with that document. I'm sorry that Mr. Minister came out, I'm going to give him this creamworth, possibly for that argument he could have said, you know, on October 15, 1985, I was 15 and I don't know anything. I think he was born in 1970, and now he can say, I have nothing to do with this document, or what it says, because I was a schoolboy back then, and I had no idea that I would be on the wings of a dossal coup and such a democracy, in fact, violence against the Constitution and the law, that I would become who I am, that I would be such an ossion and blasphemy, that I don't care what the MPs say, that I don't care if that translation in English is okay. And then you really humiliate us with a text like this and a document that came before us. Mr. Todorovic spoke of it earlier. For God's sake, you didn't think, if you'd read at all, or to take Mr. Morconjic's break, so you could all find out where this material is, if you put it somewhere, to read it tonight and come tomorrow. Just that example he was talking about. It's not about the conditions under which elected representatives of local self-government are referred to the presidents of municipalities, it's mostly those of you who take commissions and make arrangements with tycoons, or the directors of the company you appoint, or the committees are doing the job. It's not about whether they're eight feet below ground, like this hall, they have artificial light and artificial air, and it's not the essence of that document, but what it says is that they're invulnerable and that they're so independent in their business that no tycoon can influence them and take a commission. You translated it deliberately wrong, because you can't commit to your friends in Europe and 22 years later... Thank you, buddy, you see me well, I have to show you what my colleague did, he doesn't see it, so he's got to do this, okay, what are you gonna do, now I don't know what to call him. To tell you that is not a condition for your work in the King, you are an MP from the King. Is he a councilman, Vesna? The chosen representative of the people. Well, it doesn't say in this charter that you should do it, but that you don't suffer any influence from any local power, that you don't kidnap or steal, and that you do it all the time, and that's why you mistranslate this text, because you won't commit to being corrupt. You will, and it's the sweetest thing to do, to put it in your pockets, until you've secured your great-grandkids.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4465	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4466	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Milan Markovic's behaviour, Minister of Government Vojislav Kostunica, is indeed inadmissible, and this is not just today. He's being sent here as some sort of backup player in the Serbian government. Apparently, there is nothing else to do, said Bulevar Zoran Djindjic, announced that local elections laws at the end of the year would only be proposed to the Assembly, although elections should be completed by that deadline under the constitutional law. He now comes here, little possessions, comes out for this pay phone, in the blackest way possible addresses the MPs, acts like he's an MP from some time before, when he sometimes comes out for a pay phone, because he hasn't done it in the most part. It is unacceptable for Milan Markovic, as minister, to leave this room at the moment when Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic here responded directly to his insults. So, without his presence, Mr. Mrkonjic, he still doesn't have to work this parliament. You said at the beginning of this afternoon's work that you do not know what to raise the reputation of this House. It is difficult if MPs of the congregation's majority do not do so, if MPs of the congregation's majority, as Natasa Jovanovic said earlier, are just playing here, so they see some MPs through the newspaper, so they earn. Now that the viewers are here, Mr. Recorder, please just go over these faces to see the citizens of Serbia, who chose these MPs, as well as these ones here, how they behave, how they make fun of everything they say. Gentlemen, have courage, all that you say from the bench, what you throw, come out, say it here loud and clear. Be brave like Donka Banovic, who said it was a bad bill. So now how will it go in your party, we'll see. Apparently Milan Markovic went there to sue her, I don't know what's wrong with him. So, I insist we stop working until Milan Markovic comes here and is ready to hear what the MPs think about what he represents here and what he calls the law. I'm sorry he didn't have patience, that he didn't have the will, that he didn't have the strength to listen to another lecture by Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, but here in Martinović's name I promise him, as long as he sits here every hour he'll have, according to the Rules of Procedure, according to these three minutes of lectures, he's young, he might learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4467	The minister is on his way. Mr. Mihajlovic answered for the word, and Mr. Gojko Radic must prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4468	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the European Charter of Local Self-Government and, as someone said, what it is that we have not applied from this charter in the past. Certainly, the practice is different in the past period, but if there is such a document that treats and processes such an important area, in one wider area, and above all in the European area, which we are seeking, then it is necessary to bring and ratify it, and that it is a guarantee that such standards are actually applied when it comes to local self-government matter. We've had different practices in the past, and I'm going to say something about it. It is clear that the charter specifies that local self-government, and practice in many countries has shown, should have and have a strong autonomous position in public affairs. It is taken and treated as an equal participant in the exercise of power, in clearly defined frameworks. According to our earlier constitution, local self-government was considered an equal partner with central authority and this is very important. Of course, the current constitution also leaves enough room in the process of decentralisation, that local self-government is respected, to gain its powers, which in practice is not always so. We have, in the past, had different examples of ignoring, underestimating and disciplining, so to speak, local government. If in some cases it was before 2000, because you're going to say that it was and I'm not going to pollute about it, I remind you that it was certainly after 2000 and in abundance. Such relationship and treatment of the local self-government of the European Charter certainly does not mean and does not contribute to the establishment of a new system of values, which is often talked about here, which is generally understood, but is another topic that needs to be discussed next time. I hope that after the ratification of this Charter we can expect that there will be no harsh violation of the authority and legitimacy of local congregations, by free subjective interpretation of their decisions, after which temporary measures have been imposed in many municipalities. It has often been an act to end the people's will in the election in favour of the ruling parties, the ruling structures of the central government. Such behaviours towards local self-government were especially at the time of the first democratic government in Serbia after 2000, when local authorities were abducted in a number of municipalities by imposing temporary measures on crisis headquarters technology. My municipality of Petrovac in Mlavi experienced this fate, that in one illegal way, just as crisis headquarters had lost the legitimacy of its work, which was obtained in the Assembly, and temporary measures were introduced, without the Assembly's maintenance, by simply collecting the number of committees on one side and on the other, based on any statements. That's what happened last year, even during the election campaign. And to mention the attack on the Povorec municipality, which was conducted at all costs, only because it is not at the will of those who are globally ruling today. He's still threatening the fireman, which I don't think makes sense, which is what we're going to hear here, I believe, some real arguments. Furthermore, in Article 4(4) of this Charter, which will be selected and notified on our part, it is said: "The powers given to local authorities will, as a rule, be complete and exclusive. They must not be violated or restricted to other central or regional authorities, except in accordance with the law." By apostrophe of this stance from the European Charter, I warn of the misrepresentation of democratic principles, of the extreme in the way of the exercise of power. In fact, at the time of the campaign, and quickly we will be faced again with one such rhetoric at the time of the local elections, we have had and I am sure we will have the address of the ruling structures from the republican level to our voters and usually it works that way. If you vote for political options in a place that is not in the Republic of power, you won't get a penny later, no investment, all your doors will be closed, etc. That's one boastful thing. It's a force that really doesn't make sense. To make the irony bigger, this has been heard as a political asset for seven years at the time of the local self-government election campaigns and from the parties of the miles of democratic implementation. Of course it has nothing to do with democracy and democratic principles. Furthermore, in the course of the guessing and the big games about putting together a new government in one minute to twelve, and about the division of power, what it actually came down to, in previous negotiations one day and the news of the day -- the zero principle. I think it is the biggest shame in Serbia's political life, to bid on what is local self-government, with what is the will of the citizens at the place. To remind you, there is no high policy at the place, there are citizens' interests, there are communal problems, and I think that representing the zero principle at the moment of guessing and bidding around the government is really an experience and sadism towards the people and voters, so there is a demand to be seen in the mirror by the global government and what is local self-government etc. This kind of threat, certainly with this kind of behavior in relation to local self-government, only shows that the political elite leading this Serbia is not yet up to many things, so of course what should be respect not for the people who vote, but also for other segments of government. Local self-government is not for underestimation and it must have its weight, must be much more respected in the coming period in all decision-making segments, both at the moment of budgeting and at other occasions. Otherwise, such threats and the use of such instruments certainly remind them of discrimination on what is different political origin, which is, of course, forbidden by the Constitution itself. So, the SPS will certainly advocate, i.e. to vote for the adoption of such a charter, in the hope and in the expectation that everyone will be taken in mind and that such a document will respect all together, and it is especially the duty of the ruling structures to respect this charter, so that local self-government truly has its legal place as modern democracy implies today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4469	The People's MP Gojko Radic has the word, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. After Mr. Ratkovic, we'll finish today's work. Here you go, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4470	The minister expected me to come for the pay phone, so he could be there. It's possible that any of this will be denied. You can always learn something from Serbian radicals. Let's not talk about translation, it's the way we got it, we get out of it, what we see, we compare. All of us, more or less, began our first steps in local parliaments and moved on. We know what this applies to. Mr. Minister, you say you didn't do this law, you found it somewhere in the drawer, so you delivered it now, I accept. Then you shouldn't have delivered it by local self-government, where you're in power, because it's already going to apply a law like this where you're in power. I guess you told them this was going to be brought in, so where it suits you, you go ahead and do what you can and keep what you can, what you robbed, you cover up a little bit, you have this law that's ideal for it. When they wrote this law in Europe, they counted on honest people to be in local authorities and not to seek cover-up and robbery measures, but to work and improve. I'll give you an example, one of my predecessors was talking about article 3 about the authority of the president of the municipality. You have classically applied the powers of the president of the municipality and the assembly now in Subotica, when the topic of robbery around the "Minerva" and the exchange of social space was launched. Your party, to be nice to voters and citizens, has submitted amendments to the complete text of the SRS. We say we accept everything, just leave attitude 3 to ask the Serbian government to review this contract, and we point to those differences that are in the value of the exchange agreement, and this all stands. No, I don't. The attitude is concrete. Why? Don't let the local coalition fall apart. Or now the DS will have to get another job, the Grand Duchy of Hungarians to give them back this love and to cover it up, to go the way it went. What does it mean to put into the hands of someone who's been robbed, hoisted, and he decides to form a commission and he decides whether there's been any irregularities over the exchange, and then he sends the government a proposal? Item 3 allows every robbery that happens to every president of the municipality to maneuver and guard the coalition, especially if you're in power. What are we going to do when all the congregation authorities can't make a certain decision that's against the law and then certain lawyers in the municipality, people are afraid of jail, because every paper will be questioned, because the delusion of the assembly is a problem, then a certain act comes to the assembly, and most say it's white black and black is white, as we had a case in Subotica. I come from Subotica and I have to talk about our local self-government, and these are bad examples. What's going on? We know that the general urban plan when adopted, that the only way to change and supplement the general plan is the same way that the law is passed, the other one is gone. It's in Subotic. You simply sat down, not to speak, since there is no president here, for whom amendments and amendments of the law have been passed, past the law. We made a complaint to the Ministry of Urban Affairs and we got the answer that they brought it against the law. Do you know what answer I got from your authority in Subotica, the "yellow" and the SVM? "Such documents are obtained in Belgrade for one coffee in the government." When you ask for something to be done to you, which you are in power, then the documents from Belgrade are valid, they are not obtained with one coffee. This law allows for such double criteria. You have a Article 4 of Section 3 where it's said to be a public service assignment. I guess you're the one who advocated that all public affairs be won by a tender. What does this mean now? I accept that the president of the municipality can assign a job to his public company, that the public enterprise does these jobs and that he can pay for his public enterprise. The public firm cannot trust another legal person with a job, as was happening in Subotica, with a direct contract. When you came to power, all the experts on urbanism, the designers, the architects you checked out and you brought some young, summer, successful, as you say, without experience successful. Then those successful ones don't know how to work, they can't make a detailed urban plan, etc. What's going on? Then those jobs have to trust other houses that know how to do it. There's an opportunity to trade for various things and manipulate the means. Usually these jobs that would cost, say, five million, cost 20 million dinars and a few million dinars. That's where you reported well. You know better than that, I know. Then you transfer those public affairs to others and there's a store allowed. We have an article 7 that says, "All functions and activities that are considered incompatible with taking a local electoral position will be determined by the statute or basic legal principles," I guess this is where you think of the councilmen, I don't know what you're thinking here. You're alleging, "change, cancel." I'm counting on them to be quits and shifts when you chased the people you found, because they didn't want to join your party, because you didn't even have members, at least you had very few in Subotic. Everyone who's here is new. Those who didn't want to join your parties, not only did you replace them from the director's office, but you fired them. Now we have a case in Subotica that six directors have been returned to their jobs. Who will pay these three years by now, what they have lost wages etc. They'll pay the citizens. You're doing damage to the citizens. These are examples that are happening in my city, and this law will also allow you and improve these machinations of yours around the cancellation. We have Article 9: "The local authorities will be consulted in an appropriate way on how to allocate funds to them". I would understand that you said that you would control how local self-government will spend the funds they receive from the budget, recover funds. Then in the next position of article 7, you deny: "Subsidy to local authorities will not be as much as possible". So it's not going to get as much as it's approved, it's who's in which unit of local self-government in power. If you're in power, then you'll even give it to other municipalities, where you're in power. It's a story of your democracy. European democracy has been a little bit better at regulating this. You're saying the ministries will decide how much local self-government they'll get. It'll be a sympathy for anyone who likes who's in the government. There are opportunities for robberies, as regards the funds of Serbian citizens from the budget, which you planned through local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4471	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4472	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, decentralisation of political power, means decentralisation of state government is the course of democratic processes since the end of the 19th century, especially in the last decades of the 20th century. The extent and quality of decentralisation of local authorities, i.e. the quality of the government's conduct at the local level, is the democracy of a society. One of my predecessors used a political flossula just before not to run some high policy at a local level. We often use this very syntagma. For citizens, however, it is the policy that is conducted locally, in fact, high policy, because the quality of this policy depends on the quality of their daily life. Whether a digital power plant will be installed in a rural local community or in a city district, whether water or sewerage will work, is what is vital for citizens living in that territory. Why am I saying this? The European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is in front of us and which this state, through its parliament, needs to ratify, contains exactly these principles that are contained in the preamble to the Charter. I'm going to quote a few views of this charter for information from our citizens. So local government is one of the main foundations of every democratic system. It is the right of citizens to perform public affairs, it is one of the basic democratic principles common to all the Member States of the Council of Europe. And what is most important in the European Charter is that citizens are organised in the most direct way through local self-government, thus achieving their constitutional and legal rights guaranteed. I will remind myself, all MPs here have the text of the European Charter, but I will remind our citizens that this act of the Council of Europe, which was adopted 22 years ago, which came into force 19 years ago, adopted, or ratified the following countries, means as an alphabet, these are: Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, the Netherlands, Croatia, Iceland, Italy, Cyprus, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Hungary, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Germany, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine and Great Britain. So the largest number of Member States in the Council of Europe adopted this charter. The Charter is a legal act, i.e. one document containing framework principles, containing the principles of how local self-government should function and how citizens' rights should be exercised directly. So, the Charter does not contain those legal nuances, but only gives one framework, one instrument that national legislation should regulate its legislation on local self-government. What I will still be apostrophe in my presentation is part of the first European Charter. It contains material and legal provisions, so it does not concern these procedural issues already being discussed by colleagues, as well as the minister, they spoke. The concept of local self-government, which provides for this charter and which our country needs to ratify, is such that local self-government marks the right and ability of local authorities to, within legal limits, mean national legislation, in the specific case of our Serbian legislation, regulate jobs and manage the essential works of public affairs under their responsibility and in the interests of the local population. Public affairs, this is Article 4(3). The Charter is primarily carried out by authorities closest to citizens. These rights are complete and exclusive. Protection of the borders of the local government contained in art. The 5th and 6th charter, and it goes from one principle, and that's very important to us, whether it's called administration or local administration, is quite irrelevant, but it's important that we have officers on a local level who will be competent, educated and who will create an efficient system of local self-government, as is the case for the 48-hour system, which already exists in the Indji municipality. So, there is a system in the Indjia municipality for 48 hours, and that is a model that has come to see and see for themselves its effectiveness and efficiency and representatives of local self-government from many Central and Western European countries. I would agree with some colleagues, who have previously presented thesis and it has been fully established, that a large number of the provisions of this Charter have already been implemented in our legislation, the Law on Local Self-Government, but I will remind that our Constitution, meaning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, rests on the same principles on which this Charter rests. So it comes from the fact that sovereignty belongs to the citizens and I will remind you, take the Constitution, remind yourself that a large number of provisions of the Constitution contain exactly the standards concerning local self-government. I think it is necessary and I see no reason why the opposition parties in this assembly should be against this charter, because we are one of the few countries that has not ratified this Charter so far. We have a big job to do by the end of the year, to amend a set of laws concerning local self-government and, of course, it must be operational, and it will be safe to function, Serbian citizens. What I want to say at the end is, it is a member of the 11th Charter, which practically represents one newspaper, which concerns the legal protection of local self-government authorities, and I will quote that member: "The local authorities will have the right to appeal to the court to ensure the free exercise of their powers and respect for the principles of local self-government that are incorporated into the Constitution or domestic legislation". For these reasons, the DS will vote in favour of this law, we believe that it is in the interests of both the Serbian states and, firstly, in the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-16-0.u4473	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. This concludes today's work. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, the first speaker will be Radisa Ilic's MP.
