ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11833	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 120 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by the MPs in Brussels. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic (Statistics) Since the Government has not yet sent an opinion on amendments, before the start of the debate on amendments, I ask the MPs if anyone wants to speak by members of 225 and 226. Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11834	Thank you. Not under Articles 225 and 226, but under the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deliver an opinion on the amendments that have been submitted, given that these are very important and important laws. Since over 100 amendments have been submitted to these two draft laws, I don't think we have the conditions to continue our work until we have the government's opinion, regardless of the minister's presence here. I expect that, regardless of the government's opinion, we will be able to establish a certain contact with the minister and accept some amendments that may not be accepted by the Government. I suggest, Mr. President, that according to your powers in the Rules of Procedure, you secure the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and until then take a break because we have no working conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11835	Thank you. That's what I wanted to do. I fully agree with you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm taking a 30-minute break until the government sends an opinion on the amendments to these laws. Thank you. [[After break – 11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's opinion has arrived. We're going to need a little more time to multiply and divide to the MPs. I'm sorry, we'll start in 15-20 minutes. Thank you. Just to inform the National Assembly that today at the gallery, students of the Lapleg Sela High School, from Kosovo and Metohija, who have come to see how Parliament works. Please welcome them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11838	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome our young guests from Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry they were waiting for the start of this House's work. We are not, you know, always this unserious, only when we depend on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then it's like this, and unfortunately for you and the government, it's not much better. We were supposed to start work today at 10:00, but we haven't yet. I must inform you, Mr. President, that the MPs have not yet received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You gave me your copy, thank you. The other MPs, I'm afraid, will not be able to monitor the work. But we're on our way. Therefore, the amendment to Article 1 was tabled by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic and proposed that Article 1. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic is deleted, and Article 1 says, "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". This is actually Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The position of the SRS is – it is not only the position of the SRS, but it is something that is generally known – that the Constitution is the highest legal act of every state and all laws should and must be in accordance with the Constitution. But the laws serve to regulate constitutional provisions, to specify, because the Constitution cannot contain everything that needs to be regulated through legal regulations and to cover all areas of society and life. This is not the only member where you literally signed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have therefore submitted amendments, in order to, above all, draw attention to the inconclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in proposing these laws. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has long had an obligation, according to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, to propose these laws that we are discussing today and the remaining ones, which are scheduled for the next session, which we also received only a few days ago. Obviously, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made very unserious approaches to the drafting of these draft laws. In order to have more members and to make the law seem more serious to them, only in large numbers would they prescribe members of the Constitution. This is unacceptable for the SRS parliamentary group, especially when the government says why it does not accept the amendment. He says, "The overall arrangement of the institution of the President of the Republic states that the law on the President of the Republic also contains short provisions on how the President of the Republic is elected, as well as on the type of general legal act governing elections for the President of the Republic (that is, the law)." I really don't understand what the government here was trying to explain to us, what it was saying, because Article 1 states that the President of the Republic is expressing the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. What does this have to do with this argument you're talking about, the way the president is elected, the kind of general act governing the election for the president, etc.? So, the government didn't do us any good, Mr. Minister, for a serious answer. You don't listen to the MPs, and now I don't want to repeat what I said, read the stenogram. Consider and, on behalf of the Government, accept this amendment. Don't let the law be prescribed to the Constitution. The law, Mr. Minister, is something you need to frame in the Constitution. You, as a proposal, and we, the Messengers of the people, finally, as a law, and to work out the statutes of the Constitution. To see that your law is in accordance with the Constitution because we still don't have a Constitutional Court. The one we win will be a party, so it won't be worth it to that court. So, Mr. Minister, follow the MPs. I suggest you accept Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11839	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? First we'll end up in terms of Articles 225 and 226, and then we'll work on the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonimir Stević and then MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome the students of the first and second classes of economic school from my district, Director Malinka Mitrovica and Associates. The school has been moved from Pristina and is now operating in Laplem Selo. It is good that these students, professors, other students in Kosovo and Metohija and their parents contributed to maintaining education within the Serbia system and to safeguard Kosovo and Metohija during this period. It is not good that in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, things are complicated, confusion and confusion. I received information this morning that some work obligation has been imposed on Kosovo and Metohija since 1 December and that primary and secondary schools have since 5 December to stop teaching. What kind of work obligation is this if the situation is regular? Mr. President of the Assembly, you have the constitutional obligation and the jurisdiction to ask for it and ask you: when will the Assembly discuss the report of the Negotiating Team? What kind of action plans are we talking about? I read in the paper that the Health Department will make the payment as it has been. The Department of Labour will pay off the social services as they have so far. What are these action plans? What is the country heading – the government, the ministries and the highest authorities of this country? If any unilateral recognition of status occurs, whoever declares independence becomes sovereign in the territory and changes the system. How will we function in this system and how will the rest of the people in Kosovo and Metohija live, work and survive? I request information from the Ministry of Labour: what is this measure, order, regulation – to introduce temporary mandatory work? I'm looking for information and information during the day from the D.O.S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11841	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11842	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would also like, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia and on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, to welcome the students from Kosovo. If it were luck, today, in the days behind us and the next days, the debate on the fate and future of Kosovo and Metohija would be on the agenda. But since there's an irresponsibility here, that's not what we're discussing here. It is being debated in other countries' parliaments. Now allow me, Mr. President, to advertise member injury 27. It concerns your roles and your obligations. It also concerns the way this Parliament works and the costs incurred around the work of this assembly. On Friday, when the parliamentary questions were raised, a few hours were paused because for a time there was none of the members of the government to be asked questions. On Saturday, we had a session that lasted an hour or two for the vote and nothing else. Today, with the beginning of the session, he's an hour and a half late. All of this is paid by the taxpayers of Serbia. Mr. Dulic, you mentioned in a few meetings of the chiefs of Parliament clubs that the cost of travel should be reduced. I ask you to make known to the peoples and citizens of Serbia what the costs of your travels are and, in particular, something that bothers and irritates you, why you lead two or three counselors and two bodyguards on those trips. Why do you need bodyguards abroad, Mr. Dulic? I know your friends like to see New York -- they've never seen it -- and that's nice. You can take them, but at your expense. You led three counselors and two bodyguards. It was similar in Geneva, Brussels, and elsewhere. I remind you that Zoran Djindjic, prime minister and president of the Democratic Party, has never led a bodyguard abroad. Never a member of the government. Well, for example, Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic has not taken bodyguards anywhere. That's what it costs. It costs this country, it costs these citizens. Mr. Dulic, you didn't say a word in New York. You announced that you met with Srdjan Kerim. Well, Srdjan Kerim is in Belgrade every week, which is why you didn't have to go to New York. So we're looking for a report: who are you running and why are you doing it? Why do you not have to answer that, but how much does it cost? Why do you need bodyguards in Geneva, Brussels and New York? I wish that money was spent on other purposes, on these children from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11843	Thank you. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, after the amendment, then by MP Zarko Obradovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11844	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not only children, but all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija should be brought to a general public session of the National Assembly, where we will finally discuss what we will do the day after the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, which is what they expect and what they are concerned about, which is more important than curiosity, to see us doing the work of the MPs here. So please, Mr. President, take this finally seriously to consider our uninterrupted request that this negotiating team submit a report here, and that we bring a resolution that will oblige the competent state authorities to do what they do in the event of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. As soon as we learn from the means of information, the ministries are preparing programmes for which they will take place after the declaration of independence. I am very interested in what is being prepared by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that the National Assembly has not informed and has not given guidance. We really need to do something for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, not greet them when you invite them to a trip to Belgrade. Every one of their arrivals in Belgrade must be embodiesded with many dangers. You don't have to show them how important they are to you in the world. If they were the most important, then we would only discuss Kosovo and Metohija. About the amendments to say that the government is incompetent and that whoever wrote this bill is incompetent. It's the easiest thing to do is to prescribe a constitutional provision. The President of the Republic expresses the unity of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or already as it says. It's the easiest copy. But the National Assembly and the citizens in the referendum, when they adopted the Constitution, wanted, after that, by law, to know - how unity is expressed. Why are there constitutional provisions? That the law worked them out. That Serbia lives under elaborate constitutional provisions, not constitutional provisions. Constitutional provisions are the basis for legal life, but they are not life. Life has been elaborated constitutional provisions. What does the unity expressed by the President of the Republic mean? We warned you that if you wanted this unity, this law should have written. If a BIA member cannot be a member of the political party, how can the president of Serbia, who should express the unity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? How can he, if in public appearances, divide the citizens of Serbia into those who are for him and those who are against him? It is very difficult to accept that you express the unity of all citizens, but it must not be in a declarative form. It must be seen in behavior. And it must be seen in the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this provision was to be developed in at least a few members of the bill. We don't need that provision today. We shouldn't vote on her at all, we voted in a referendum on that provision. You humiliate and insult Serbian citizens. The provision they declared in the referendum must not be the subject of voting in the National Assembly. What do we do now? Imagine if we don't pass a law that says "the President of the Republic expresses state unity." Well, we're bound by the Constitution. Don't remind us of that. If there's nothing we can do to see how he's expressing it, don't even write it to us. And we'll always show you that when you rewrite the Constitution. You say the president is elected in the election. No, Dad's setting it up. You're writing pointless provisions for us, like little children. What do you need that for? Work out the Constitution, and don't prescribe it. Because we know the Constitution very well, unlike you. If the President of the Republic knew the Constitution, he would have dismissed the President of the Constitutional Court long ago. He received notice that Slobodan Vučetic has met the conditions for retirement and Slobodan Vučetic has been president of the Constitutional Court for two years, receiving salary, all benefits and all privileges, and is not the President of the Constitutional Court. This is where the work of the President of the Republic is discussed. What was his motive not to propose the dismissal of the President of the Constitutional Court? What motive did he have to remain deaf to the information that the President of the Constitutional Court had ceased his term? What's behind that? Which one of us hid the information that we still have the President of the Constitutional Court today? I thought we didn't have it. Until the other day, until I learned that there were secret documents informing the Assembly and the President of the Republic that Slobodan Vučetić had broken his working relationship by law. He stopped working and stayed in office as President of the Constitutional Court. So we need a life. We don't need to prescribe the Constitution, we don't need laws you won't enforce. We need the laws behind which you will stand and which we will dispute if they are not good, which we will fix if they are not good, but when they are adopted, they must be respected – both by you who voted for them and by us who did not vote for them. And that's the whole science of political life. Today we are discussing the law on the President of the Republic. We will be against that law, but we will fully respect it if you bring it in most. For us, holiness is the congregation’s majority and decisions made by it. But it is unacceptable that it is not sacred to you who vote for it, that it is not sacred to whoever is elected under that law as President of the Republic. I even think that the Legislative Committee would have to intervene when it receives such draft laws and rejects members of the laws that prescribe the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly, in this assembly, with this majority, is not declared constitutional provisions. He's got no right. Who's up to changing constitutional provisions, he knows the drill. Some change by one majority, by another, by a referendum, but by no means by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11845	Thank you. The People's MP Zarko Obradovic has the word, and let MP Srdjan Sajn be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11846	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honored Presidency, this member of the law is a signed member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains 11 members on the position of the President of the Republic. Why am I saying this? This article is prescribed, the others aren't. One logical question arises: if this member is prescribed in the law on the President of the Republic, why are not the others prescribed? Why does the government give itself the right to interpret the other members as appropriate? It would be fair to prescribe the other members, so at least we would know what the President of the Republic of Serbia has from his rights, what his relations are with other institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because this member himself objectively doesn't make any sense. So either it's overwritten or it's overwritten. If it's not everything, then I don't see any reason for this. The colleague who submitted the amendment is absolutely right. Why am I saying this? It would be logical for the provisions of the Constitution, as the most important legal act of the country, to be developed through the content of this law. They're not that. Why? The wording 'The President of the Republic expresses state unity' owes an answer to a simple question: how does it express it? It expresses - by choice, by incompatibility of functions, by doing the job of the president, perhaps in a third way, by the conduct of the President of the Republic... What is this way in which the President of the Republic expresses state unity? Otherwise, in itself this provision is completely pointless, and unfortunately, the way this function has been done so far by the current President, Mr Tadic, shows that this formulation absolutely does not make sense. He says, "The President of the Republic expresses state unity." By choice? I have already spoken in the debate, but I will repeat once again, the way the President of the Republic is elected – this state unity does not exist. The fact that there is no longer a 50 per cent requirement, as a condition for the validity of the elections, has put the issue of state unity on the other hand. At least you could say: fifty plus one percent registered, that's the majority of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote, so it could at least draw the conclusion that it is the majority of the voters of the Republic of Serbia, so there are elections worth winning. Now, in the second round, who knows who's going to come out, because the question is, can anyone win in the first round, and practice has shown that even a few choices aren't enough to make so-called. Democratic candidates are elected. If someone gets elected by 15%, 20%, 25% registered voters in the Republic of Serbia, as an expression of will—is this really the state unity of the Republic of Serbia? So that's one element of this state unity that the President of the Republic is expressing. The second is what most of my fellow MPs who otherwise have a negative view of this law have mentioned, it is a question of incompatibility of state functions and party functions. Is there really a man in this room, no matter what some may and may not say, who may think that the party president, who does not resign from office as president of the party and does the work of the President of the Republic, expresses state unity as the president of only one party? Is there really a national MP who can draw that colossal conclusion that the president of the party who does not resign and has been elected by citizens, as citizens directly elect the president, can express state unity? It would be logical that, if it expresses state unity, the provisions of the law say that if the President of the Republic, if the President of the Party, resigns, freezes membership... Or find some other way that he's no longer party president. Now, if he's afraid to leave the party's office because someone else needs to take over the party, that's already an internal issue. Then it should not be the subject of concern for neither the law nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How does the President of the Republic express state unity? We have had one practice over the past few years that the President of the Republic, while working hours of the President of the Republic, is expressing state unity, and in the afternoon performs party functions. We have met countless times with the situation that the President of the Republic speaks on behalf of the party, as President of the Republic. I mentioned examples of going to party glory by the President of the Republic. And let it be, that's his private matter, that it's not media reports that the President of the Republic was there. Well, then why didn't he go to party celebrations of other registered political parties in Serbia or the party celebrations of those parties represented in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, thus showing his broad-mindedness and that dimension that he was ready to communicate with everyone, to respect everything and treat everything in an equal way? I mentioned in the debate that the President of the Republic, as president of the party, was at a meeting where agriculture was discussed. The first report goes, and says: The President of the Republic led a session of the General Committee and took positions on agriculture. Therefore, it is not problematic agriculture as an area, but it is problematic for the president to express state unity at the meeting of the main committee on agriculture. The current president's way of working has completely mulled the constitutional formulation that 'the President of the Republic expresses state unity'. Wouldn't it make sense that the law on the President of the Republic explicitly states that the President of the Republic cannot be party president since, as a rule, candidates for president are party leaders and they are elected president of the Republic of Serbia? It cannot carry out the most responsible duty in the party. I think that it is nothing wrong with the law and that would then be one concrete contribution from the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to its opinion on how the President of the Republic expresses state unity. Do you really think these provisions of the law that speak of the rights of former presidents are something that shows the state's position on the former president who is expressing state unity? When he's finished his post, let him go to the Bureau to sign up for a job, and he won't be paid social security either. Is there anyone who might think that these are the provisions of the law governing the position of President of the Republic? I must honestly say, on behalf of the SPS, that the promoter has taken this job completely unseriously, that he has made a very superficial approach to the regulation of this law, that, unfortunately, in the content of the law, he has left out the answer to the key question: how does the state unity of the Republic of Serbia express itself? How? When the president speaks for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how does he do it? The law is superficial, incomplete, made simply in the function of the upcoming elections. Obviously, it's an evaluation of the promoter, at least of the part that has a candidate for the President of the Republic, or now, or never. And the rest of the ruling coalition must, of course, support that candidate so that the government does not fall apart. The result of this coalition and that rotten compromise is the content of this law. This law does not offer answers to questions that a normal law on the President of the Republic should give. There is no answer to the first question: how does the President of the Republic express state unity? If there's no answer to that simple question, then everything else is pointless. Not to mention the other objections to the law. We SPS MPs will talk about it today. You will see how the legislator has elaborated certain constitutional provisions. If the Constitution is a basic act, it is older than the Government, both of these congregations and, of course, of individuals. And I have the impression that the promoter here has succumbed to some of his intra-party impulses or the need to maintain the coalition, so he's been formulating 'as we agree, and for the others it doesn't matter'. Obviously, in this congregation there is a pattern that what most think it is, it is necessary for everyone else to accept it unspeakably. We at the SPS disagree, especially not with this content of the law. We think this is a very bad law and does not objectively contribute to establishing the importance of an institution called the President of the Republic of Serbia. It would be better if they wrote the first position of the law that the President of the Republic is part of the executive government in the Republic of Serbia, and then let's see what it is. Because this formula doesn't make sense in itself and it's very logical that a colleague suggested that this article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11847	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic and then by MP Srdjan Sajn. Mr. Todorovic, you have six minutes left for your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11848	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the previous speakers have already presented almost all the reasons why this member should be deleted. But when you take a look at the reasons why the amendment to Jorgovanka Tabakovic was rejected, there is no wonder why this is the first member. It is no wonder that such a law is written and that the first member is the one literally copied from Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". Look what the government says, which is why the amendment is rejected. He says: “Amendment is not accepted. The taking over of a constitutional formulation defining, in a certain way, the basic role of the President of the Republic in our constitutional and political system is an introduction to the matter governed and contributed to the integrity and better transparency of the law." What has the government written here, what contributes to the better integrity of the law? They could have written, say, (why wasn't it the first member? ) that the President of the Republic will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't they explain what they're saying here to this member? How will the President of the Republic express the state unity of the Republic of Serbia? Perhaps they should have said that the president of the Republic of Serbia should not share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we have in practice had the current president of the Republic of Serbia share the citizens of the Republic, according to his view, on those suitable and unsuitable to him. Perhaps they should have told this first member that the President of the Republic would not violate the Constitution. Because unfortunately, the current president is in violation of the Constitution. It seems to me that there are 16 months from the moment President Boris Tadic was informed by the Constitutional Court and by the President of the Constitutional Court that he had obtained conditions for retirement, that the Constitutional Court had no two judges and was obliged, under the Constitution, to propose candidates to the National Assembly so that the Constitutional Court would be filled in and that the Constitutional Court could function normally. I'm absolutely right. I read you letters that arrived at the address of the President of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what else to do, what an argument, what a fact that a man gives you—that you accept it as something that is completely undeniable. The Constitutional Court informed the President of the Republic, the former President of the Constitutional Court informed the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic did nothing. And we haven't had a Constitutional Court in 16 months. We're in an unconstitutional state. That's what the President of the Republic had to do. And as soon as this law is completed, as soon as it comes out of the Official Messenger, you should expect that, in accordance with the law, we will initiate the procedure and prove that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic has violated the Constitution and that I assume this new Constitutional Court will give its opinion. Speaking of the Constitutional Court, although it is said here in the first article that the president of Serbia is expressing state unity, President Boris Tadic could also show when proposing a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges. In this country, except for Serbs, there are other peoples, or national minorities, especially considering that some members of the national minorities voted for Boris Tadic. This is very easy to see when you look at the map of Serbia and the number of votes. For example, in a proposal submitted to the Serbian Parliament to be a certain number of members of national minorities. Therefore, it would be much better, Minister, instead of signing this article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that you have worked for both MPs and citizens, counting on Boris Tadic, who obviously does not work in accordance with Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has shown in practice that it does not express unity, in order to avoid confusion, should have been taxed on how the President of the Republic should express state unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11849	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11850	Dear Members of the government, I also believe that this article is not the place in this law, for several reasons. This is not just a legal issue, it is a matter of legal practice. Is it even possible for the Constitutional Court, when it makes a decision on the compliance of certain members of the law with the Constitution, to consider whether the constitutional norm is in accordance with the same constitutional norm contained in the second law? So that's a very important legal question that we today, in our practice, are turning into something that is simply not right. Why isn't that legal? It does not apply to the institution of the President of the Republic only to members from 111 to 121. If we take some other members of the Constitution, which, in my opinion, are very important – in Article 21, paragraph 4, it is said: "It is not considered to be discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve the full equality of a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens" – it is important to be in the law of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic has not appointed any member of the Roma national community as ambassador or consular representations without saying how many representatives there are from rural parts and other Serbia's middles in the Cabinette, etc. So, I think that, too, if we accept that principle to be part of this law, they should be part of Article 21(4) of certain things that they say about the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to certain categories. If you had clearly defined in Article 1 what legal issues this law deals with, which legal matter regulates it, you would have easily come to the conclusion that the amendments that I have tabled on behalf of the Roma Party are logical, that you are wrong not to accept them and that they had to be found in this law. It's very logical that this law defines a narrow matter of one question. This is not a legal law that generally regulates certain things and does not have the legal power of the Constitution. The constitution has been adopted by a certain procedure, and this assembly cannot decide on something that has been passed on to another qualified majority, which is what people in the referendum have declared when they went out to vote on the Constitution, that we are now changing that thing. If we're changing that, then we have to change the procedure that's scheduled for the amendment and addition of the Constitution, not this procedure. These are all very serious questions, which I don't think the law gives. I didn't want to go into these formal questions in the amendment, trying to essentially help you answer some questions. You clearly show that since you did not regulate the subject matter of this law, then there is wandering and you cannot define whether something is there or not. That's what I'd end up with. Once the amendments are made, then I will once again make an argument as to why these amendments should have been adopted. If article 1 had regulated what this law deals with, then the logical answer to that question would be that these amendments should indeed be accepted. This way, we enter a space that is not only in this law, but also in some other laws. Instead of saying in Article 1 that this law is closer or closer to defining or defining, we are, in fact, taking over the definitions that the Constitution has and then getting the impression that they are laying the foundations of a legal or political system in Serbia, which you will all agree is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11851	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, and let the people's letter of Hope be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11852	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, students are no longer present, the SPS primarily wants to point out and underline its position under this article of the bill, which is its fictitiousness. It exists fictitically, only to exist, and in practice, it is normally not respected. As everything else in this country is not respected in practice, and it is a fictional one. First of all, when it comes to the state unity to be represented by the President of the Republic, it has already been said and it is once again asked whether state unity can represent a man who has become President of the Republic but has not given up his leadership functions in the party, specifically in the Democratic Party. He would not lose anything either at the authority or with dignity in his party, it is normal, but he would gain much at the authority and dignity of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not members or supporters of the DS. No one is against remaining a member of the DS, that is logical because the party has just put it in the position of the President of the Republic, but then it should have had the feeling to rise above the situation, rise above all these party frameworks and become president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, rather than continue to propagate political ideas only by the Democratic Party. Furthermore, another big question arises: is the president of the DS, or the president of Serbia, an authority in relation to the electoral body? What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything to him that he's chosen by a smaller part of the people. It is known that if someone wants to have authority in the people, he must have a significant part of the electoral body behind him, and it is a verification of the fact that more than 50% of the electoral body comes to the presidential elections. That would be honorable and fair. But, anyway, the citizens will feel it. When anyone's least hoping, they'll recognize they've been cheated. Only once can they be fooled. In this way, their electoral rights are destabilised. Obviously, the president will mean nothing to a smaller part of the electoral body. He doesn't care about the will of the people or the majority of the electoral body. He's only interested in that part of the electoral body where the members and supporters of the DS are, and for the rest of the electoral body, he doesn't give a shit. This means that he does not even care to stimulate, to give the people confidence, so that most people come out and express their right to vote. He is becoming more and more comfortable with the apathy created in Serbia, which is exactly the apathy of the elections. And this apathy isn't just created in the political sphere of life. It's also created in the sphere of education because young people are destimulated into schooling. There's also a form of work-based apathy as a basis for survival. There's even the creation of a family, even the birth and everything else in this country. That's why we think this member of the law is just fictitious and that, in fact, in practice he can't live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11853	Thank you very much. The word is from the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, president of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11854	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, an amendment proposing to delete Article 1 of the President's Law, which reads that 'the President is expressing state unity', is unacceptable for the DS for several reasons. The argument to abolish this member is a broad range of reasons that are very often supported by an argument that is, in fact, aimed at challenging the current President Boris Tadic. So, this law is not about man, it's about institution. I think the argument used by a man who is currently president is simply not an argument, even though we have presidential elections ahead of us, which is possibly part of an election campaign. It is not disputed for us that this law stands as the first member who, in all the other laws of the Constitution, draws the powers of the President because this law, under its concept, is not the law on the powers of the President, but on the position of the President and therefore does not discuss in other members of his constitutional jurisdiction which is being discussed by the Constitution or other laws. Even the reason that this member is abolished is no more serious argument, except that it doesn't make sense because it's not being discussed later in the law. On the other hand, two concepts are very often mixed here, in our opinion very different – one is political unity, and the other is state unity. So it's always been stated here that statehood can't be represented by someone who represents some kind of political option. In that case, we would never have anyone who could express state unity because we have candidates from political parties, and that's how the presidents are elected. Thus, we could never say that anyone, and in the greatest effort, will be able to express it. So it's about state unity and it's something else from political unity. One more thing. Article 178. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are very clear procedures in determining the termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court and Judge Vučetic received notice that he had met the condition, he arrived in the Assembly two years ago, and it is not the authority of the President of the Republic to determine the termination of that function, and so neither does the complaint against the President of the Republic, I mean, there is no basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11855	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. The Republic has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, under Article 101. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply cannot believe the explanation given by the head of the DS parliamentary group – that the President of the Republic has nothing to do with the end of the term of office of the President of the Court and the Constitutional Court. It is one of the powers written in the Constitution – to propose judges of the Constitutional Court. This is one of the most important things that the president of the state has to do – that there is a Constitutional Court. I just can't believe you could have said this. Please, here, I'll read it to you. On 10.7.2006, from the Constitutional Court (also arrived to the President of the Assembly, but it arrived to Serbian President Boris Tadic) to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, Belgrade, Andric's Wreath number 1: "I hereby inform you that the Serbian Constitutional Court is sitting in accordance with Article 127(2). The constitution found that Serbian Constitutional Court President Slobodan Vučetic met the conditions for the exercise of the right to retirement and thus for the termination of the judicial office and functions of the President of the Constitutional Court'. So that's three months before his duty ends. It is further said: "How for two years, or a year and a half, two judges are missing from the Constitutional Court, I ask you to carry out the necessary consultations as soon as possible and propose to the National Assembly candidates for the President of the Constitutional Court and two Judges." Boris Tadic has arrived another letter 14.9 that I do not read it to you, refers to the same thing – that the time is approaching when the position of President of the Constitutional Court ends. How come you don't see no coincidence here, but the intention of Boris Tadic to put the state in a position to be in an unconstitutional state? It was his obligation -- to propose two judges of the Constitutional Court, to propose the President of the Constitutional Court. Because it says here there is no Deputy President of the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Court. Even if Boris Tadic didn't know, it all says so here – the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia at a session on July 5th, 2006. - explain everything to Boris Tadic. What's coming out of this? That Boris Tadic knowingly violated the Constitution, that he was aware of the consequences of that, that is, certain acts that would require the Constitutional Court's opinion and that the sole absence of the Constitutional Court would prevent the Constitutional Court from making a decision whether it was in an unconstitutional way or not. Among other things, what was happening in Belgrade and what was going on or should have happened in the election before these laws were passed, etc. I'm out of time. (President: Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. ) There are a large number of things that have been done, on which the Constitutional Court should have given its opinion. And, Mrs. Kolundzhija, you should have read in the paper that over a thousand cases are in front of the Constitutional Court – they cannot be resolved because the Constitutional Court cannot work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11857	The word is from the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, president of the DS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11858	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, in order for you to be right, we would have to go in order, so let's see what the procedure is, and at what point from that procedure something reaches the President of the Republic. "The motion to elect the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court and inform the Constitutional Court of the existence of a reason for the termination of office, i.e. for the resolution of the Constitutional Court judge, the President of the National Assembly delivers to the MPs. These proposals are being opened in the session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall decide on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each judge of the Constitutional Court... '". This is the procedure that had to be done before, in order to follow the next one, therefore – as stated, and afterwards the Assembly informs the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11859	The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11860	I would only ask Mrs. Nada Kolundji to allow someone to accept the SRS amendment without doing so because it is against Boris Tadic. Or that she was precise about her discussion in which she said that all the arguments were, or (so you said) that the previous debates were... (We will take a stenogram and look at it, so if not, I apologize to you), but, please, let someone accept a certain opinion without being apriors against Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11861	The People's Messenger Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Articles 225 and 226, I must inform you that today is November 28th. In Presevo and Bujanovac, members of Albania's national minority celebrate Albania's National Flag Day today. The only thing I could say is that it's better than last year is that this time, they promised, the Albanian flag on the municipality building will stand out next to Serbia. I hope they don't throw Serbian in the mud, like they did last year. It is said: The gathering, according to Beta, will be organised by the Presevo Association of former warriors of the Presevo Liberation Army, Medvedje and Bujanovac. I don't know if the police have banned the gathering of these people, but I can tell you that today, soldiers who protested over their diaries and members of the Guard of Emperor Lazar who wanted to cut the cake, took an oath and appeared at the Merdar border to show by peaceful protest that they did not recognise the border between Serbia and Kosovo the police banned and entered the church where they were to appear and, of course, going to the Merdare border crossing. I would ask Mr Milan Markovic, who is present here today, to invite his colleagues, representatives of the MUP, not to take rigorous measures according to these faces because I am afraid this action could have a slightly greater effect. I also pray that at least equalise the status with former veterans who fought for Serbia and Serbian interests in previous wars, at least with Albanian veterans who were members of terrorist organisations because in Serbia today we seem to have to pray even to be equal with terrorists and those who fought against Serbia's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11863	National MP Vjerica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11864	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a colleague of Hope Kolundji tried to quote Article 178. Rules of Procedure to convince MPs that Boris Tadic is not responsible for the fact that more than a year old or current President of the Constitutional Court Slobodan Vučetic receives the salary and is not retired. I said 'ex' because, when he informed Boris Tadic, he met the conditions for retirement, and 'now' because he's still getting paid. Chapter XII, among other things, speaks of the selection procedure and the resolution of officials elected by the National Assembly. In particular, Article 178 discusses a proposal to elect the President and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, on the procedure before this Parliament, on proposals to open a search at the National Assembly, where the National Assembly decides on a choice, or resolution, etc., that I am not quoting this member now because it was quoted by Mrs Nada Kolundzia earlier. But this does not refer to these arguments made by Mr Dragan Todorovic. We're talking about the fact that Boris Tadic didn't accidentally find out, and even if he found out by accident, then at least at the time he was acting as party president, he could talk to his member Oliver Dulic off the record. No, but Boris Tadic has officially learned, he was officially informed by the Constitutional Court president and by the Constitutional Court, and my colleagues are receiving that information in 2006. You mean – at a time when Mr Oliver Dulic was not the President of Parliament. That's right. But, dear colleague, when he came and took office as President of Parliament, then Oliver Dulic was not allowed to do what he did, and we talked about it the previous days, that everything he found unfinished, all the unfinished items from the previous call, he put down in the archives. So later, on our intervention, it was found in the archives that the National Assembly was informed in 2006 that the President of the Constitutional Court had expired. That doesn't justify Mr Oliver Dulic. Another man in a function does not mean that what was done until then needs to be deleted and that someone new with new ingenuities is now emerging. So there is a National Assembly, there is a President of the Republic. Regardless of who the president of the National Assembly is and which is the majority of parliaments, what did not end at the time of his previous term, as Mr Boris Tadic was obliged to act as he was told.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11865	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mrs. Nada Kolundji tried to explain, refers to a completely different matter, the moment when the President of the Republic, in accordance with his constitutional powers, proposes the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is about a completely different situation. It is that the Constitutional Court has come into a situation that cannot function because the two judges of the Constitutional Court are already not members of the Constitutional Court. One seems to have resigned, the other has also met the pension conditions. It is true that this was to be established in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is true, but obviously Mrs. Nada Kolundzija does not know, that President Predrag Markovic has also received a memo on the lack of two judges and that the President of the Constitutional Court has reached conditions for retirement, that there is no Deputy President of the Court, and that therefore the President of the Republic must propose two judges and the President of the Constitutional Court. Why didn't Boris Tadic do it? Here's the question. Why did he not comply with Article 112? Not only does the Constitution give him the right, but it also gives him a commitment. How could he, then, declare a single law? Because "the lesson declares the laws, according to the Constitution." How could he declare any law when he was aware that we had no Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court couldn't give its opinion on the law? The fact is, the president of the assembly knew about it, too. I assume the Prime Minister knew, too. I asked a parliamentary question, although sometimes we come to a situation that the Prime Minister has not been informed, but we will get, hopefully, an answer to the parliamentary question whether he was informed and what he has done according to these findings. This says that not only is the President of the Republic, but also the President of the Assembly, we will see if anyone else was involved in this – that the Republic of Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court and that you can do and do what you want for almost a year and as you will because you are aware that there is no Constitutional Court. Because that was your goal, as these in The Hague say - a joint criminal enterprise. Your goal was not to have a Constitutional Court to make everything that was happening to us in the state happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11867	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11868	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I must tell you that counterpart Dragan Todorovic is absolutely wrong when he says that the president of the state has violated the Constitution for two reasons. The first reason is that, as counterpart Nada Kolundzija read, the finding that the Constitutional Court judge has ceased to act brings the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous session, when a notice came from the Constitutional Court to the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly was Predrag Markovic, not Oliver Dulic. Therefore, the proposal was to give Predrag Markovic, which was to be voted by the former assembly's call. You said, Mr. Todorovic, that 16 months have passed since Tadic was due to propose candidates and that he was informed since October 2006. I'll remind you of one thing. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, quoted here, was adopted on 8 November 2006, and you are calling for a member of the Constitution at a time when this constitution was not brought. According to the constitution, a constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, which prescribed a certain procedure for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, was also adopted. The Constitution itself prescribes a procedure for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. Under the procedure, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic submitted his proposal to the Constitutional Court judges this summer 2007. So Boris Tadic, in accordance with the constitution, carried out all the obligations he had. The Serbian Parliament passed the law and we elected judges in one part. Thus, the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution were absolutely respected. And what should have been done to get rid of the former judges of the Constitutional Court – for this was the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, not the president of the state. And the president of the state can't negotiate with any president of the Assembly what he thinks he should, but every institution in this country must behave in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Don't honor the President of the Republic for something he wasn't competent to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11869	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that we are on track, not only but that all these claims are absolutely correct, according to the ferocity with which DS representatives defend President Boris Tadic. Mr. Konstantinovic, I don't know how many times to read to you the date when Boris Tadic received a letter from the Constitutional Court, from the President of the Constitutional Court, and also the President of Predrag Markovic Assembly, and President Boris Tadic was absolutely aware of... Or are you saying that the President of the Republic wasn't aware of the facts in the letter? This is very serious what you've been saying. Is it possible that you claim that the President of the Republic wasn't aware of what it says here in a letter from the Constitutional Court and the President of the Court? How can Boris Tadic assume anything? Boris Tadic is on an airline of 10-20m from the Republika Srpska Assembly. His obligation was to, in accordance with his powers, have a parliamentary group in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia that was to ask the president of the assembly to resolve the matter. What comes from what you said? Please, I accept, if we don't take that Boris Tadic wasn't aware, to say that he was absolutely conscious, then we come to the fact that it was his intention and that you, as MPs, helped him. Or he didn't inform you, and that's what the president of the assembly was involved in, and maybe someone else, we'll see. But, Mr. Konstantinovic, you yourself said that President Boris Tadic did nothing because he allegedly waited. He shouldn't have done that. He had to do it. He had to propose to the Constitutional Court judges to ask the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to have a Constitutional Court. Who can we complain to now – did the President of the Republic break the Constitution or not? - explain it to me. Who? The Constitutional Court? What Constitutional Court when this Constitutional Court is unable to function? Who do we complain to? When someone needs to complain, if they don't, what does that mean? From all this, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, consciously alone, in agreement with others, broke the constitution and that the issue would have to come to the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, whether you wanted it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11871	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11872	Mr. Todorovic, I understand that the presidential campaign has begun, but it is not right to lead citizens of the Republic of Serbia astray. It's a shame to use this pay phone to lead citizens astray. It's just that what you're saying isn't true. Since you have twice referred to certain provisions, I will read you another article 178. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which makes it very clear: "The National Assembly decides on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each judge of the Constitutional Court... '". Therefore, it is the National Assembly that decides on the termination of the position of the Constitutional Court judge, and it is not the President of the Republic who has jurisdiction to decide on this. Do not exercise laws on an arbitrary basis and do not take the state on an arbitrary basis. There are organs that are responsible for certain things. The authority responsible for the termination of office is the Serbian Parliament, and this is what the Serbian Parliament should have done. The President of the Republic cannot and has no rights, let alone powers, to interfere in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11873	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then a replica, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11874	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, don't spray your ashes. You're saying that the National Assembly was obliged to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court on a proposal from Boris Tadic... What did you, as a congregation majority, do to put it on the agenda? Did you react? No, of course not. You say Mr. Todorovic leads the citizens astray. With what? Bringing the truth about the violation of the constitution by Boris Tadic and Oliver Dulic? You're still saying the election campaign started, but there's no point in using it in the election campaign. Obviously, Mr. Konstantinovic, it bothers you that the election campaign has already started, so Serbian citizens are now listening about how Boris Tadic violated the constitution and how he is being violated today. We're sorry, but you'll have to listen to that. You will also have to listen to it in a serious debate in this parliament, when the Constitutional Court is formed which will have to establish, not only in this case, but in many cases, how many times Boris Tadic has broken the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You say: Boris Tadic cannot negotiate with Parliament's presidents. That's not what I said literally, but I said that there was a President of Parliament from his party and that even in that communication he could have gotten some information. And, I repeat, it is no excuse for the announcement to the Assembly arrived at a time when Oliver Dulic was not Parliament's president. You did not participate in the work of the Assembly, it is also widely known, and that is the period of several months when you only came to receive salaries and did not participate in the work of the Assembly – you reminded me well. But Boris Tadic, Mr. Konstantinovic, can't even choose ministers. Well, you remember when this government was elected, when he said he was going to take care of it how the DS minister works, and who doesn't, on his terms, work well, he's going to change it. You didn't react then, and you didn't say, "Hello, Mr. Boris Tadic, where did you get the right to change ministers?" So Boris Tadic can say whatever he wants, he can behave however he wants. Thanks to his congregation majority, we haven't had and we still don't have a Constitutional Court, there's no competent authority to discuss and decide whether or not the President of the Republic has broken the Constitution. But, Mr. Konstantinovic, both ladies and gentlemen, had we or did not have a Constitutional Court, the SRS parliamentary group will also be in this place, and in every place, warning of a violation of the Constitution and by Boris Tadic and Oliver Dulic and Vojislav Kostunica. We remind you that during this period you also had two coups - one by Dulic and the other by Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11875	There were no coups, no violations of the Constitution. National MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Nenad Konstantinovic, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's this classic example here -- when someone comes into conflict with facts, that's worse by the facts. I only express facts and nothing more, and I interpret in a way that is only possible to interpret. I understand your position and your situation, but you're saying that the President of the Republic has these powers under the new Constitution. Mr. Konstantinovic, you are a lawyer, but you should have looked at it, or you should have remembered, that even under the former Constitution, the President of the Republic had the same powers. However, it is not the same member, but Article 88(4) says "proposses an assembly of candidates for the Prime Minister, President and Judges of the Constitutional Court". Where are you going to make a simpler, more precise provision on what the President of the Republic should do and what is he right to do? I just can't believe that after these facts, you guys can go out and talk. I know things are indefensible. It's about like defending a pen from a theater. I understand that, but you've brought yourself into this situation. The president of the state, Boris Tadic, was informed three months before the court president's office. They say nicely: "As the Constitutional Court has been missing for two years, or a year and a half, we ask you to consult as soon as possible and propose to the National Assembly... ". They're referring to the president of the state how this job should be done, and now you're transferring it to Predrag Markovic. It is undeniable that there is his responsibility, I do not dispute it, but here, above all, is the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic for not doing so, which he did in the previous case, for these two judges who already do not function in the Constitutional Court for one two years, and for another year and a half. Although the Constitutional Court could have worked because there was a president and there was a majority, but with the court president's office stopped, it was known that the Constitutional Court was coming to a blockade, that it could not work. It is something that is clear to everyone, not to a lawyer, to every educated man – what is happening in a situation like this, for which the Constitutional Court and then the President of the Constitutional Court explain and gives information to the President of the Republic. What the President of the Republic was supposed to do, he wrote in a memo to Mr. Konstantinovic. He says, "Please conduct the necessary consultations as soon as possible and propose to the National Assembly of Candidates." Let Mr Boris Tadic prove to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia that he tried to carry out the necessary consultations and that he could not, of those others in this chain, exercise his right and that the state was given the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11877	Please, let's finish this controversy. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11878	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Todorovic, it may be possible to defend the penalty from the theatre, but it is impossible to fire at home, in front of the television, the penal. So that's not familiar. Now you want to shoot the pen by kicking the TV. You can try that. You'll break the TV, and you won't score. So, what do we have as a fact? In 2004, Serbian citizens elected Mr Boris Tadic as president of the Republic of Serbia. If another candidate had won, maybe Serbia could have an emperor who could interpret the Constitution any way he wants. But in Serbia, the presidential system is in effect and we here have clearly defined game rules. We have the president of Serbia. We don't have a king, we don't have an emperor, we don't have... (President: The division of power, Mr Milivojevic, in Serbia, exists - legislative, executive and judicial. Yes, there is a division of power. It's all good in the Constitution. But what do I want to tell you? In Serbia, we have a president of the Republic who has fulfilled his constitutional obligation. On Saturday, we had here, as I recall, that's what the citizens of Serbia saw, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, you, Mr. Todorovic, honor something you yourself know is not true. What you said, you're saying it yourself, and you know, basically, that's not true. Mrs. Hope Kolundji told you Thank you, Mr. Todorovic, thank you, Mr. Nikolic, you are very well-read. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] So, we have the following situation: we have the law on the president, the law on the election of the president, the SRS wants Serbian citizens to explain something that is impossible -- that Boris Tadic came to the post of Serbian President to violate the constitution. Boris Tadic is the president of Serbia who respects the law, respects the constitution and respects the Republic of Serbia. As such, he won and was given the mandate to do his job until the election of the new president of the Republic, and that will be him again. And there's a problem with a discussion like this. If it were another time and not a presidential campaign in Serbia, I am convinced that our political opponents would discuss it differently. I would ask you to stop this debate because you can't convince us that you know it's not true yourself. You cannot convince the citizens of Serbia, nor can you convince anyone in this country that you are right. The DS was not involved in Parliament's work. You had a parliamentary group that was the largest parliamentary group in the last term. Did you give the initiative to then-President of the Parliament of Paddy Markovic to do such a job? Did you, as MPs sitting in this House, direct this initiative? I'd be happy to read you article 178 again. Rules of Procedure, but I don't think it's necessary because you've read it a few times already. The fact here is very clear. Boris Tadic is not the man who broke the constitution. Boris Tadic respects the Constitution and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11879	National MP Dragan Todorovic, replica, under Article 101. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are some that a man can explain. And some who absolutely can't – they shouldn't even be tried. Since some of us have already mentioned the possibility of obtaining an emperor, and thus the court, etc., we have already met one condition: there is a court madness. We'll get an emperor and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11881	Mr. Todorovic, please take care of the terms. Are any of the other MPs reporting by amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Let's finish the controversy, Mrs. Radeta, please. Don't cause another one. If possible, let's continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11882	Every time, Mr. Albianic, when you say, "Can we move on?" I worry about your condition. What work are you talking about? Are you asking us to go into action, dig?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11883	According to the amendments, so on the agenda. This has been a controversy so far, and now let's finish, so let's move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11884	This is an amendment debate, i.e. a hearing under the Rules of Procedure, currently brought about by our debate on the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. I really must, first of all, help my colleague Milivojevic, not to beat up from this place anymore because this is what Serbian citizens are listening to. Serbia is a parliamentary democracy, Mr. Konstantinovic, and I have to teach it, he said the presidential system is in effect in Serbia. You know it's not, so tell him, teach him that when he comes out for a pay phone, they have to deal with the basic facts. I have to mention that people's – what a smart person is ashamed of, that someone else is proud of – and it refers to your statement, colleague Milivojevic. You were so proud to say that we voted here on Saturday for judges of the Constitutional Court. Have you ever heard of the Constitution? Have you ever heard of the Law implementing the Constitution? Have you ever read a member of the 9th Law? When was this assembly obliged to do what she did only on Saturday, Mr. Milivojevic? What are you proud of? You've been breaking this constitution since it was brought in. You're breaking this constitutional law. No member of this Constitutional Law has yet to be fulfilled, and we had an obligation to fulfill it. Serbia, thanks to the congregation's majority, is in an unconstitutional state and day-to-day. Thanks to DS, DSS, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. Like it or not, it's facts. Talk to your colleagues of lawyers who know what I'm saying, so somewhere where no one hears you, ask: is she right when she told us everything? He'll admit to you, yes, he's right. As he is right and to confirm what Mr. Todorovic has tried to explain here to you, of course very difficult, but the citizens of Serbia, I am sure, understood that Boris Tadic broke the Constitution and that, thanks to the violation of the Constitution by Boris Tadic, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic had received his salary for a year and a half, and he was supposed to be a pensioner. This new Constitutional Court, even if it is a party, will have to discuss it, and we will file an initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11885	Do any of the MPs report for the amendment of MP Jorgenka Tabakovic? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I have to express my doubts – whether it makes any sense to explain the amendment to Minister Milan Markovic – because it is obvious that he neither wrote a law on the President of the Republic nor was he sufficiently directed to what the bill says. If that were the case, you could see when the minister explained the bill without raising his head. He read, in about half an hour, what someone else wrote. But since I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, then I'd like to say a few words. In the absence of the ability to impose too much provisions in the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic to edit this matter in a quality way, the legislators simply rewritten Article 114 of the Law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, in secret voting, in accordance with the law". In Article 2(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill reiterates the same thing: "The President of the Republic is elected in the direct elections, the secret vote" and the position of Article 2(2). The bill says, "The elections for President of the Republic are governed by the law." It is really funny that the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic lays down provisions on the way in which the President of the Republic is elected when it is a matter of a whole other law, a bill on elections for the President of the Republic. What is also a legal nonsens, it is that the law says elections for the President of the Republic are regulated by law. It's a constitutional formulation. The constitution says elections for the President of the Republic are regulated by law. It is really funny to propose a law that says: elections for the President of the Republic are regulated by law. Therefore, the law stipulates that elections for the President of the Republic are governed by law. This is some practice that has not been present so far in the drafting of the bill. What's also funny is why the government doesn't accept the amendment: "Amendment is not accepted. The overall arrangement of the institution of the President of the Republic states that the Law on the President of the Republic also contains short provisions on the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, as well as on the type of general legal act governing elections for the President of the Republic", and then the brackets read "it's the law". I don't know, Mr. Minister, do you think that in the National Assembly there are students of elementary school or people who are absolutely not sent to legal work. First of all, Mr Minister, you do not edit the entire institution of the President of the Republic, and that is how you confirmed it yourself when you put two draft laws into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – one proposal is the law on the President of the Republic, and the other is the bill on elections for the President of the Republic – and then, in an explanation why you do not accept my amendment, you say: because you fully edit the institution of the President of the Republic. Well, you don't fully edit, because you put two draft laws in the assembly procedure, not one bill. It is really funny that the law on the President of the Republic deals with the way the President of the Republic is elected when it is the matter of a special law. I really don't understand, and it's obvious that the legislator selectively chose which provisions the Constitution would prescribe and which not. The legislator calls for him to prescribe only certain provisions of the Constitution. In fact, when you compare the text of the bill and the text of the Constitution, you will see that the Constitution is misspelled. So that's not the right way to say what the Constitution says, but it's all twisted. When I said that the Constitution was selectively prescribed, it was quite clear. You see, the legislator prescribed the bet of Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, in secret voting, in accordance with the law." But in that article, 14th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also provides for the text of an oath to be made by the President of the Republic, item 4: 'I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as its constituent part... '". Now we, the MPs of the SRS, are interested in what criteria the Government chooses which members of the Constitution will prescribe and which it will drop. If you have already begun to rewrite Article 114, it would be logical that you then overwrite it whole, even if you would be consistent with your copying method of writing the bill, and like this, you begin to rewrite one member and end up in the first position, and attitude 4, which says the President of the Republic is obliged, or that he swears to preserve Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, including Kosovo and Metohija, you dropped it. So now, what do we need to think? That Boris Tadic, if by some accident he wins the presidential election again, would say: why should I fight for Kosovo and Metohija when it does not appear in the law, I am bound by the law, you know, by the law of the Constitution, and the law has not elaborated the text of the oath that I am to take, therefore, the territorial integrity of the country, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, is not interested – because it simply does not say in the law. I really don't get it. Be consistent – or rewrite the entire Constitution when it comes to the President of the Republic, any constitutional norms relating to the President of the Republic, or do not prescribe anything. Now, you've started to rewrite something, and what's essential to the President of the Republic, that it will safeguard the country's territorial integrity, including Kosovo and Metohija, you've dropped it. And Serbian citizens can really realistically expect me to say again, if by some accident Boris Tadic is the one who will safeguard the country's territorial integrity, he simply won't want to do it because he will always be able to say: Serbian citizens, I'm sorry, but in the law of the President of the Republic, that constitutional norm which obliges me to safeguard the country's territorial integrity is simply not elaborated. Fortunately for Serbia, this will not happen because Boris Tadic obviously will not win the elections for the president of the Republic. Instead, the SRS candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, will win.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11887	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11888	This is a good amendment to the SRS MPs because in two laws, which you have joined the debate since, you say, the solutions are interlinked, you have provided for two different provisions regarding the election of the President of the Republic. In this law you have really prescribed a constitutional provision that "the President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, a secret vote". The same provision (and I think you prescribed these members of the Constitution to purchase these 47 members, as many as there are) in the Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic in one other way, and you say that it is elected 'in free and direct elections, in secret and personal voting'. I am now really interested in how the Republic Election Commission will act when it decides who has the right to vote and whose vote is valid – whether according to the law on the President of the Republic, where it is enough to vote in secret, or under the law on elections for the President of the Republic, which requires a personal vote. For this reason, by eliminating this provision, you will probably be left with the provision of the election law for the President of the Republic, which is actually the basic law governing the elections. In the law on the President of the Republic, what will the provisions on elections for the President of the Republic do when we also pass the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic? Just to make the law bigger? There's no need. There was no reason to put this into this law at all. A team before Boris Tadic for a full year has avoided taking an oath that the president of the Republic must take under the new constitution, because the constitution did not say: a president who was not elected after the adoption of this constitution does not have to take an oath under this constitution. So the Constitution says the President of the Republic takes an oath. If the Constitution came into force after the election of the President of the Republic, I guess it is essential for the President of the Republic to come to the Assembly and say: I respect the will of the citizens, they have brought a new Constitution to the referendum, here, I am prepared to take an oath, a text of oath under the new Constitution. That oath, then, did not enter the law. Only a brief provision has entered that obliges the MPs: if the Assembly is not in a regular session, they will meet to swear an oath before them. One theoretical question: and what if the MPs do not come, is there any criminal provision for a MP who does not attend a session called to swear an oath by the President of the Republic? I believe the President of the Republic who does not take an oath is not the President of the Republic. And I think the same thing about Boris Tadic all these years, as long as he's in power without taking an oath. That was the purpose of the law. Not to prescribe the Constitution, not to prescribe the old Act on the President of the Republic, not only to give us the bill, but to fully elaborate on the function, role and election for the President of the Republic. It's really funny that this law deals only with the former president of the Republic. More provisions discuss what the former president and his wife are than what the current, current president is doing. Of course, the Constitution also says there is a Constitutional Court. Then why do we need the Constitutional Court law? We need you to work out the Constitution. The Constitution says that we have the President of the Republic, that's enough, and the President of the Republic does whatever he wants because it will never be enough for the majority to raise the issue of his responsibility, the majority in the Constitutional Court or the majority in Parliament. A team before you gave Parliament the right to change the president if the Constitutional Court assesses that he did not violate the Constitution, which I find very bad. What happens if you delete this provision? Nothing, because that provision is regulated by the election law for the president. What do you get if you delete it? It prevents cohesion in two laws, prevents the conflict of two laws, prevents the electoral commission from having more laws in front of it when it settles elections for the president of the Republic. Then it's not a legally arranged state. A legally regulated state is the one where it is clear, where laws regulate life: President of the Republic – Law on the President of the Republic, Elections for President of the Republic – Law on Elections for President of the Republic and Law on the Selection of People's MPs (because many general norms of this law are also referred to by this law). Indeed, Mr. Minister, I know you've met this law in a hurry. It is unnatural for the minister who did not write the bill, who did not participate in the draft law, to defend the law against the National Assembly. If you have determined there that the Legislative Secretariat is writing certain drafts of the law, if we have provided for the Rules of Procedure that the Secretary of Law is authorized here to be a representative of the Government in the adoption of the law, I ask you to eliminate your autostrate, from how the LDP parliamentary group behaves if the secretary of legislation appears here, and if you can't, change the secretary of legislation to the LDP initiative, do something to make a man who wrote this bill appear here. Like this, Minister, you don't care. Do not defend anything with your heart, do not defend it with any kind of ferocity of this law, because you did not write it, and you do not care. Worse still, it was not written by a man from your political party, and that is very important in relations in this National Assembly, and it is seen by the behaviour of the MPs. So don't be embarrassed. And you should be ashamed of these arguments written by the Legislative Secretariat. Because it's the humiliation of the MPs when he answers why he refuses the amendment, and he doesn't instruct you at all to show in any way that there was any reason to refuse the amendment. That's why, Mr. Minister, you accept this amendment, no one will be angry with you. You're a good lawyer, you've been a good MP, and don't be a bad minister now, because your career should be on the rise, not in the fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11889	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11890	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, here is the opportunity to agree on the amendment tabled by Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic about one thing - and the opposition parties, who believe that this amendment should be accepted, and also on behalf of the Government, to show that it is above the vanity that exists in the government and an arrogant relationship that cannot be accepted by the amendment because it cannot. I'm going to say briefly, the amendment that's been filed is a good amendment. There's no reason not to accept it because it doesn't regulate anything. Let me remind you, in the light of what you have proposed, you have, in the light of the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, said that the adoption of a law governing the position of the President of the Republic is one of the conditions for calling the presidential elections. I am taking another chance to warn you: it is one of the conditions, but the adoption of the law on the President of the Republic and the election law for the President of the Republic is only one of the conditions. It is also a condition for foreign policy, defence, military and security laws to be passed. Let me warn you one more time, Mr. Minister, the same conditions are also needed to call elections for local self-government, which apparently everyone skips. And the same constitutional law gave the same constitutional deadline, until 31 December of this year, that local elections must be discussed, but that the condition for calling local elections is the adoption of laws on territorial organisation, local self-government, local elections law and the law on the capital. I'm just reminding you and warning you that it's your responsibility to refer it to the procedure by December 31st and they'll be brought in. I warn you, too, that local elections cannot be called without it, since I see that there are such press announcements, because the Constitution simply changed the way it was chosen when it comes to local self-government. So, in the light of this law, you're saying this is a law that regulates the position of the President of the Republic. We believe that this law has not dealt with this issue enough and, as the debate on individual members continues, we will prove it. I'm going back to the essence of the amendment to Article 2 of the Law. So we're talking about a law that talks about regulating the position of President of the Republic. The second law is the law on the election of the President of the Republic. What do you say now? In the law of the President, which governs the position of the President of the Republic, you say 'the elections for the President of the Republic'. How does this regulate the position of the President of the Republic? Article 2 of the Law: 'The President of the Republic shall be elected in direct elections, by secret vote. The elections for the President of the Republic shall be governed by law.' I remind you of the constitutional formulation, Article 114: "The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, a secret vote, in accordance with the law". One sentence says more than this whole term. I think it's right that those who suggest that this member is completely excess. What does he regulate? What does it solve in this law? Nothing. Article 114. The constitution is clearer. This can be further elaborated in the election law for the President of the Republic, which is also on the agenda. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, do you have enough reason to rise above what the government is imposing as a relationship to the opposition in this assembly and say, really, this member means nothing to me in this law, doesn't regulate anything, doesn't solve anything, I have a special law on the election of the President of the Republic. You would probably get a lot more in the eyes of MPs and in the public to go out and say: this amendment is accepted for the reason that – under one, the Constitution is defined precisely and there is no need to rewrite, the law should be discussed, and under two, there is a special law that regulates it. I think this is an example where you can easily, and I expect you, Minister, to come out and say that this amendment can be accepted. As far as we're concerned, we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11891	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Zarko Obradovic, by amendment. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really haven't had a chance to read these arguments by the government, which is why some amendments are not being accepted. I really don't know what you're doing out there, if you have some people who can explain too much why the amendment isn't accepted, but obviously, the proposals are such that there's no possibility of too much reason why the amendment isn't accepted. I suggest you, "Amendment is not accepted." Why? That's why. Finish the job and you just don't need to explain. Because this explanation is really amazing. Speaking of arguments, where it is said that 'the law on the President of the Republic contains short provisions on the way the President of the Republic is elected, as well as the kind of general legal act', etc., I suggest, in this Article 2 – 'The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, by secret vote' – you should add an explanation of how a secret vote is done. I must warn you, Minister, for one single reason, since I noticed that DS members and council members in the Belgrade City Assembly don't even know what a secret vote means. Unfortunately, some also sit in congregation benches, such as Mrs Milena Milosevic. They don't even know what a secret vote is. The secret vote is also arranged in the instructions on the work of the election committees and in the Law on the election of MPs, but the head of your parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly Zeljko Ozegovic takes the ballot, comes to the ballot box and surrounds it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11893	It's a little harder on the ballot box, Mr. Todorovic. Next door.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11894	I didn't understand you very well. When I warned them that a secret vote must be held in the way the law has prescribed, otherwise, you, Minister, should know, that, if the secretion of the vote is injured, elections are annulled in that polling post, the election board, etc., when we elected the deputy president of the assembly, a number of committees are re-emerged. Therefore, it should have, and I think it would have been useful, if not for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but then for DS members to develop in a brief manual a way of working on election committees, which means public voting, which means secret voting, and then how DS officials should behave, by example, to show what democracy is, what a democratic procedure is, etc. I think that would help you a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11895	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, following the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, the only meaning of this lawman is that the government can say: something we wrote. For us, representatives of the opposition, this is great material to discuss and show how bad this is, in fact, one law and how many representatives of the assembly majority did not care at all about what the institution of the President of the Republic meant, what the constitutional provisions on the President of the Republic meant, what the dignity of the function of the President of the Republic meant. They quickly concluded this to be said: behold, the law is in the assembly procedure and formal legal conditions have been created for the election of the President of the Republic. Proposer - Government - General term, one man on behalf of the Resort Ministry, defends this and does not believe in the provisions that he makes before us MPs because obviously this law is so full of holes that it does not make any sense in itself. Article 2 says: "The President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, by secret vote. The elections for the President of the Republic shall be governed by law.' It is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 114, that the president is elected by law. Why do you now mention in the law that the President of the Republic is elected by law? This amendment, submitted by counterpart Martinovic, made full sense and has no reason not to be accepted. If the only essence of these members is to discuss elections for the President of the Republic, then that should be said to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia: the essence of the debate on these laws and this session on Monday is to create conditions for selecting the President of the Republic; then, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly will not work, but we will close the Assembly by the end of January, until our candidate is elected, so that we can then, through his back, enter some other – the province, local and similar elections. It is interesting, when it comes to the provisions of this law and the provisions of the Constitution law, that no one mentions the laws relating to the elections in the local self-government. It is four or five laws, the minister knows it well because he is in charge of these issues – a law on territorial organisation, a law on local elections, a law on local self-government, a law on the capital. Even last night, I heard Mr. Secretary say, "They can question the election according to the old laws." Wait, the better question is, why don't we have these laws in the process? Let you do what you have to or you don't have to. That's your opinion. Why is there no law, Mr. Minister? Such meaningful laws as this – why are there no such laws in the congregation procedure? The constitution was adopted in November, the government was formed on May 15th, today is November 28th. Why didn't we get the laws regarding local self-government? We have received laws on the president, and these pointless laws, in order to create a legal basis for Mr Tadic's election. I think that for all the reasons the Government could freely use the explanation given on Amendment 1, where it says that the law represents the taking over of a constitutional formulation which, in a certain way, defines... '". This law really defines in a certain way all provisions relating to the position of president, in the way the assembly majority sees it, because if they had a little professional correctness, I speak very responsibly, then they would quote the provisions of the Constitution concerning the jurisdiction and other affairs of the President of the Republic. You will later, when we enter into a debate on some other amendments, believe it or not, we have now heard from the promoters that the powers of the President of the Republic can be established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Believe it or not, fellow MPs, we now have a unique opportunity to settle the issue of affairs of the President of the Republic of Serbia through the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But it's the promoter, it's the government, they can do anything. He can do anything, he just can't do one thing - to respect the Constitution. Mr. Minister, why did the government introduce a forced administration in 11 municipalities, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Is the government of the Republic of Serbia subject to the provisions of the Constitution of Serbia, which say that forced councils cannot be formed differently but based on party representation and national membership? Does this government respect the Constitution only when it comes to the President of the Republic or when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia? If it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I inform you that 900,000 people from these municipalities have no opportunity to freely express their will and respect their constitutional rights guaranteed. Of course, I'm waiting on purpose. There's no answer, we won't even get it. That answer will remain somewhere in the depths of the Secretary-General's soul because it is professionally unable to answer that question. This way, he knows that such behaviour cannot be defended by the government, that it is the result of political compromise and interest, but in fact it shows what Serbia is in today's condition. So anything can happen if the congregation's majority is agreed. We think that the amendment of fellow Martinovic is absolutely meaningful and that it should have been accepted because the way this member of the law is formulated is really pointless, as one of many members of the law that essentially have no purpose, and there is no reason to be in the law about the president. There is a constitutional provision regarding how the President of the Republic is elected. It's regulated by another law and there's no reason to mention another law in this law. This is one of the many nonsense that contains this law. You will see in today's debate, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves will be amazed when they see the extent of these senselessnesss contained in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11897	Thank you, Mr. Beard. The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11898	I would just like to make one clarification about what Mr. Obradovic was saying. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in which I am the minister of Parliament's will, has imposed provisional measures in the Great City, Smederjevska Palanca and Kursumlia. So, in three municipalities. Temporary measures exist in 11 municipalities. The first were introduced on 16 November 2006 – that is the government you supported, in which I was the opposition. The temporary authority in those municipalities shall be educated because the conditions laid down in Article 112 have occurred. A law on local self-government that says that if a local self-government unit assembly does not meet for more than 90 days, a temporary body is educated. So that's the answer to the question you said you needed an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11899	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradović, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11900	Thank you. I said the answer would stay somewhere deep down, and that's what happened. It is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past term introduced a forced administration in several municipalities at the end of last 2006. And you know for a fact that then the election was called and that we didn't get a new government until May 15th this year. Logically, since Mr. Markovic, as president of the former assembly, was a man of resignation, he obviously did not want to resort to respect for the provisions of the law, did not want to apply the laws, he did not want him to call elections in local self-government units at a time when the government had not yet been formed. Here is a fundamental question, to which Minister Markovic has no answer: why, in the meantime, from May 15th to this day, will now, in December 1st, the government of the Republic of Serbia change the case, if already called for that earlier time, the decisions on the composition of the larger municipalities? Mr. Markovic, why did the government respect part of the Constitution in the change-related work and not respect it in the composition work? Why am I saying this? Mr. Markovic, for a year now, some municipalities have been under duress management. Do you understand that five people in one municipality decide on the fate of 100,000 citizens in a certain part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Since then, the government of the Republic of Serbia has had countless opportunities to show that it respects the Constitution. The Constitution is not respected. You quote us a provision of the Constitution that speaks of the introduction of an emergency administration and quote a member who says that when forming a council, the government should take care of the structure of the municipality, party and national. And tell us if it's respected. If you say so, it's respected. And I know it wasn't, and I told you it wasn't. And colleagues from G17 plus were inserted into those temporary bodies even though they had no council members in the municipalities. One of the municipalities' congregations is Big City, and you know it as well as I do, and I really don't see... In fact, you can explain everything inexplicably, as with some writers – the inexplicable ease of existence. Everything, slowly, when the congregation majority will. This story has another dimension, and this is a question that concerns the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dulic. I've asked him several times why there are no provisions in the laws regarding his jurisdiction. He could have called the election countless times by now. Countless times, the president of the assembly could call the elections, but then, likely, party interests at the bar would be disrupted. Who knows how this would affect the ruling coalition and this is a peaceful way of prolonging things. Mr. Markovic, I know you're aware, but I'd like to ask you to come out for this pay phone and say whether it's logical that local self-government has municipalities where there's a temporary administration for more than a year, and somewhere it's going to be longer than that. You don't even mention the law on local elections, the law on local self-government, the law on territorial organisation, the law on capital -- these are preconditions for local elections. You are constantly referring to the provisions of the Constitutional Law, and you do not respect and extend the agony at the level of local self-government. You can't be afraid of these choices. What do seven, eight, eleven local self-governments have to do with 160 municipalities that exist in Serbia? The point, Mr Markovicu, is that the government, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has formed provisional organs and has put representatives of the ruling coalition political parties not represented in the municipality's assembly. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11901	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Just one moment, Minister, according to article 85. Rules of Procedure, today we will work longer than 18:00 hours, until the end of work on this point – by amendments, and up to 20.00 hours at most. I'm asking for your understanding because there are a lot of amendments and a lot of work. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11902	First of all, Mr. Obradovic, a gentleman sitting next to you, our distinguished colleague Petronijevic, said that the adoption of laws in the area of local self-government is a condition for calling elections because the constitution defines the organs in local self-governments differently, and you claim that elections should be discussed on the basis of the fact that there are temporary authorities out there somewhere. So, first of all, you're contradictory. Secondly, I remain in the position that the Constitutional Law in Article 3 has defined that elections will be called either within 60 days of the date of adoption of the law in the area of local self-government or no later than 31 December of this year. I'm so clear with that provision of the law that I don't see at all what you're getting a different interpretation from, that now the election needs to be called separately. Here's a concrete example. Imagine that we are now discussing elections in Belgrade, and this parliament adopts a law by which the mayor will be elected from the council, under which the City Council will have different powers, etc. Does this mean that in three months we will re-election in Belgrade or will we have in Belgrade and in these municipalities a system of local self-government, and in some municipalities another system of local self-government? I'm sure the founder didn't want that. The founder wanted to draw a line, to hold all elections in one day and a half of a system. Everything else would, in my opinion, be counter-constitutional and against logical reasoning – what is rational, what is useful and what is not. This is to me, since I've been a minister, the eleventh law to defend him before the National Assembly, and that's what you and I have been discussing for at least the eleventh time. It's an organ composition. I couldn't agree more, Article 192. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its third position says the provisional body will reflect the national and political composition of the disbanded assembly of the municipality. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted on 8 November 2006, and all these temporary bodies, which you and I are talking about, and those eight that were brought before this government began working, were brought after the adoption of the Constitution. None of these provisional bodies reflected that provision of the Constitution, Article 192, but reflected the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which simply remains that the Government educates the provisional authority and that, by the logic of the matter, the Government organises a provisional body by the composition of the Government, because the Government is also responsible for the work of that provisional body. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: No. ) That is, for example, in Zrenjanin, where citizens of Zrenjanin chose a man from the DS, where DS has the largest foothold – a temporary body with no DS was educated in the same Zrenjanin on 16 November. I completely agree with you that that doesn't make sense. I said here and I promised that the new law would consistently implement Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and temporary authorities will be educated in accordance with Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But this seems a little incorrect to me. For the first time I've heard you say this only now, when this government is educated. I haven't heard you talk about this before, and especially not while the members of your party were in temporary organs, where your party, for example, didn't realize... (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: But there are no such ones.) I don't care, yours or any other party. So we have to be principled and consistent. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: It doesn't matter. ) If this was the position of the previous government and if there were no objections to that position then let us not apply until the new law has been passed. If we have said that article 192 will be operationalized, or developed in the law on local self-government, then do not now ask that this Government be the one to directly apply the provision of Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So that's my explanation of this issue that we've been discussing all these days and I really believe it's right, based on the Constitution and based on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11903	I thank you, Minister Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11904	It is interesting that Minister Zarko Obradovic says from this pay phone: here, I have defended 11 laws and I have debated this subject 11 times with you. And the eleventh, or twelfth time, Mr. Minister, you do nothing. Or, to be more precise, you've taken over, and you've done it very much, because there's no, let's say, radicals in any of the temporary organs, even though they have the largest committee groups in the areas where you've introduced temporary measures. There are no socialists in any of the temporary bodies, even though they have significant committee groups. I remind you, for example, of Smederjevska Palanka, where the largest committee group has the SRS, and what, when you enter the Assembly, is yellow. I remind you of Smederevo, where that one of yours, Sasha, was called, who said four simple sentences and based on his election campaign. (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: theirs was the criminal who arrested her. And, yes, I'm sorry, it's yours for being in prison for that crime, but it doesn't matter. Anyway, they're similar. Over a year in Smederev are temporary measures, the 11th time you've been arguing with Mr. Obradovic, and you're not thinking of telling the president of the Assembly to call the election. What you read from the Constitution refers to all local elections, not to those where they are already larger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia should know it's big money from the budget spent in these municipalities. They are not spent in accordance with national will, because the national will is expressed through the number of committees in these local self-governments, neither are they spent in the interests of the citizens. Where temporary measures have been introduced, mostly break the wheels when you go to the car; so none of the streets have been arranged, but all the money has been spent. Unfortunately, we have also come to the situation that in Belgrade, if not the SRS MPs and the SRS City Assembly's committees have insisted so much, you have severely violated the law, and yet the question is how will the local elections go. After local elections, do not wonder because it will be a completely different structure of the city's assembly and the structure of government and decision-making. But the question is how many more people's money until the local elections in Belgrade's budget will go down the Sava and Danube. To remind Serbian citizens that it is a figure of over eight hundredm euros annually.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11905	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, Milisav Petronijevic or vice versa, as you will. National MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11906	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have no doubt you speak fluently, but I doubt you speak correctly. Mr. Minister, you've been sitting here answering questions that haven't been asked, and you haven't answered the question you've been asked. To be exact. It is your attempt to confuse things by saying that Mr. Petronijevic and Mr. Obradovic think differently. That's where you made a big mistake. They never thought differently. What's this about? My question was this. This Serbia was drowned every day by talking about when elections for the President of the Republic, calling for the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, etc. The same constitutional law stipulates that elections for local self-government are being discussed by 31 December, which is also a very important issue for Serbia. It's November 28th. I remind you that for Monday, if this session ends, a new session with a bunch of laws is scheduled, counting budgets, foreign policy, defence, security, the military, etc. I ask you, when will you deliver those four laws, which I have spoken of, to the National Assembly? And the second question is, what are you going to do if they are not adopted in the congregation by then? That's my question, and it concerns elections in all local self-governments, in the sense of law enforcement. What counterpart Markovic was talking about concerns municipalities where temporary measures were imposed. There's an emergency situation. Please, big cities are at stake, not to talk about Belgrade with a billion euros. It's a big deal who's gonna hold that register. Do you think it is a simple question – it will be when the law is passed, etc. I ask you, what happens if by December 31st, no law on local self-government is passed? How do you think you can solve that question? And, quite in the end, Mr. Markovic, Article 192. The Constitution in paragraph 2 clearly states: "The government may, under certain conditions of law, disband the congregation of the municipality." That's right, according to the law. Now you're saying we have an existing law. Yeah, that's where we agree. But where do we disagree? Item 3: "At the same time with the disbanding of the Assembly of the Municipality, the Government appoints a temporary body that performs tasks from the authority of the Assembly, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly of the municipality." There's no "in accordance with the law," Mr. Markovic, but to take care of it directly. The essence of our remarks is, as you have already said 11 times, that you do not respect the Constitution because you are not setting up a temporary body to take care of political and national belongings. That's the point, and you don't need the law to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11907	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11908	I'm sorry, but I don't see anything wrong with speaking to the Minister of State and Local Self-Government publicly for the 12th time, according to counterpart Markovic. counterpart Markovic expressed the essence of relations, unfortunately, coalitions in power towards local self-government. It's a matter of great interest. Is there anyone in this country who can think why so many halls around Belgrade have risen and why, at the cost of life, they want to maintain an existing structure? It's a huge amount of money and projects that have started or been granted approval. The city of Belgrade has a huge budget. The point of the whole story is that huge pairs are spinning, through only certain companies, certain people, and there are very specific interests. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, it is entirely irrelevant whether the mayor of Peru, Laza, Mika, Djura or someone is singing. All that matters is that it is done in accordance with the law and that they have the right to express their will. I understand Mr. Minister, he represents the government, and he defends the interests of the Democratic Party. I represent and defend the interests of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I ask you, if you are referring to the provisions of the Constitution, why don't you respect this Constitution, why don't you respect the provisions of Article 192? A constitution that says that when the government forms a provisional body, it takes care of party and national representation? Mr. Markovic, you know as well as I do, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't know, and they should know, we in each of the disbanded municipalities had representatives, as well as colleagues from the SRS. All right, if you respect the Constitution, which you don't change these days, you form them by party principle, and then you say: there will be elections when laws are passed. Well, then I'd believe what you're saying. Change the structure of the council, form them according to the party principle, according to the number of councils that exist in the municipalities and then say: elections will be held when laws are passed. Then I'd say this minister really takes care of the Constitution and he's consistent with that. This is what you're talking about: she was the government doing this, so we're doing this. If she was doing bad things, then you're doing bad things too. We supported that government, but we weren't in the government. We were represented in the council because we had committees there, not because we were in the government. You're telling us: the principle is that whoever's in government forms bigger. It's not. The Constitution says what the principle is. This is the principle, Mr Markovic: that party and national representation must be taken into account. You don't respect that. I don't know how you're trying to defend it indefensibly. Here, suggest new compositions of the council, respect the principle of party representation in parliament, and then step out here and say: there will be elections when laws are passed, so we will see what we will do. Like this, you're telling a story that doesn't make sense. But, unfortunately, it is the work of this government – one story, and the other one is working, and it essentially does not respect the Constitution, only to the extent that these are its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11909	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to complete this debate with an example that I think is the most drastic in Serbia right now. It's an example of the municipality of Užica. Provisional measures were introduced in Uzic last year in November. So it's been a full year since the introduction of provisional measures into Uzic. What's even more drastic about it is that the last session of SO Užice was held in June 2006. For a year and a half he doesn't meet, there's no SO Uzica. And that June session last year was technical because it was already a campaign to elect a new president of the municipality. So long before that was held some last session of SO Užice that had some other characteristics, that is, the ones that should have SO that decided on certain concrete things. Is it normal that a municipality like Uzic, which has close to 100,000 inhabitants, does not have a congregation of municipalities for a year and a half? Is it normal that she's been gone for two years, because obviously local self-government elections will only be held in 2008, and we still don't know when? Is it normal for half the term of office to lead a large municipality like Užica temporarily bigger? The minister here just explained why all this was done, so he expressed one inconsistencies. First, he said that by the arrival of the new government in May of this year, he respected the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which talks about deadlines for local elections. But it was already clear that local elections could not be held by the end of this year, that it would take a long time to hold new local elections. Then why didn't you stay consistent and say: I will respect the new, valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and when the appointment of temporary authorities, and we will put radicals and SPS representatives and other parties who had committees there in Uzica? The SRS's advisory group in Uzic was second in power, and now there are no radicals in the provisional council. By choosing the new government, you only changed the composition, so you threw out a SPO that is no longer in the government, and inserted those who are now in this new government of the Republic of Serbia – DS. And now it's nice and nice. Please, no matter how this organ works, how money is spent there, and spent most honestly – it is not normal for a local self-government to operate without a congregation. It's not normal, and it needs to be stopped as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11911	Thank you. We're finally going back to work on the agenda. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11912	Thank you, Mr. Dwarf. I just thought I'd ask you to ask Mr. Dulic for an explanation, to see that there have been no changes in the functioning of this parliament, but now I see, there have been two MPs from the DSS, from the G17 and there's no one left. It's been like that for days. I'm sorry, I only see two colleagues from G17 now. So, for days now, it's been a state of mind and I don't think it's like the time the DS left Parliament's work, so they didn't show up in the O.R. It is clear that this also speaks of the government of the Republic of Serbia being divided into the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the government of Bozidar Djelic. When there is a representative of the government of Bozidar Djelic, then there are DS MPs, and when someone from the government is Vojislav Kostunica, then there are DSS MPs. Of course, that's your problem and your thing, but this is what I want to say, first of all, for the sake of the public, that the citizens of Serbia know what the attitude of MPs, which citizens choose, is according to the problems that Serbian citizens have and how MPs are fighting and trying to choose to solve their problems. When it comes to this debate, which has just been led here by a group of MPs and a resolution minister, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, or even better "against local self-government", when talking about these 11 municipalities where temporary measures have been introduced, I didn't want to engage and report to the Rules of Procedure, but I really think, Mr Markovic, that you must at least answer more seriously to your fellow Members when they ask you these and these questions. You are in all 11 municipalities where temporary measures have been introduced, in relation to the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Your colleague Zlatan Jovanovic was just telling you about the situation in Užica, the number of SRS council members in Užica, that none of the radicals are presently present in this temporary council, and not only in Užica, and not only in the radicals, but are now only representatives of the parties who exercise power at the level of the Republic. It's unconstitutional, Mr. Milan Markovic. But unfortunately, thanks to your President Boris Tadic, we have no Constitutional Court, so we have no one to complain to. You tried to explain how it is impossible to call elections in some local self-government where there has been a temporary administration for more than a year, where temporary measures have already been introduced – because you are waiting for elections to be discussed at all levels. And, on the other hand, when you talk about calling elections for the President of the Republic, then you are even able to say, not you personally, but your party colleagues, that this is about the most important issue and that even the problem of Kosovo and Metohija should not interfere with the choice of president. Because, as your colleagues said, because of the problems in Kosovo and Metohija can't stop life, we have to work, we have to choose the president. I'll remind you, Mr. Markovic, of when you first spoke here as Minister. That's when I told you, I'll remember what you said, Mr. Milan Markovic. And you said you guaranteed, as minister, that all the laws, under the Constitutional Law, concerning local self-government, would be in Parliament within the deadline provided for by the Constitutional Law. That's when I promised you, not to ask for a stenogram, to remind you of that. Now I remind you that you haven't kept your promise and that we still don't have laws to regulate local elections. And no one from the DS, or from another part of the ruling coalition, has yet to explain why it is important to hold presidential elections, and it is not important to hold local elections. What difference does it make if the Constitutional Law binds us to each other in the same time? I'd really like someone to explain it to us, so just so we know, maybe you're right, maybe there's something we don't understand, let's try to convince us and explain it to us. When it comes to this law on the President of the Republic, and the amendment that I actually wanted to talk about, and this Article 3, to which counterpart Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment, she says in favour of what you, Mr Minister, said in her address here – that these are technical laws. You've really seen them as technical laws. Of course I can't accept that... You said, you said, anything you suspected, we'll look for a stenogram and I'll read you exactly as you said, and you said it was technical laws. Of course, as far as the SRS MPs are concerned, we cannot possibly accept that the law on the President of the Republic is technical law. It is true, there is one chapter of the Constitution entitled 'The President of the Republic'. It speaks of the position, competences, election of presidents, etc., what is the obligation of the Constitution, but the law needs to elaborate on these provisions of the Constitution. And what are you now, unlike those amendments and Articles 1 and 2, where we're looking for an erasure, now I'm going to explain to you why we're asking for Article 3, and what has the Government answered us about? Article 3 shall refer to the powers of the President of the Republic. "The responsibilities of the President of the Republic", it says in the bill, "are determined by the Constitution. The Constitution of a particular jurisdiction of the President of the Republic may be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly permits it or if it imposes its nature." Did you conclude, at least according to what has been so far, this article, that this matter should not be further developed by law, or have you read somewhere that the Constitution does not explicitly allow you, or is the nature of this law, as you have written in this Article 3, such that it does not need further work? I expect you'll explain it to us, because from what the government wrote, I'm not so smart as to understand what the government was going to say. The government says, "Amendment is not accepted. In the draft law governing the position of the President of the Republic, it is necessary to stress that the powers of the President of the Republic are laid down in the Constitution and that they can only be worked out when the Constitution requires it or when it comes from the nature of the responsibility of the President of the Republic’. This is indeed an unmistakable explanation. I'm sorry, but I can't use the other term here. You say it is necessary to stress that the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution, and you say it in Article 3, but you don't think of it, which might be better, if you had said a little bit about these powers in the law of the President. The constitution says the president represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad, but it does not say anywhere that Boris Tadic should go to Stipe Mesic and apologize to him for the Ustasha exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska, and he did so. It doesn't say anywhere, of course, to meet at Skopje airport with Agim Ceku. You think that such general formulations can satisfy everything that you think is jurisdiction, or what the president thinks – he probably doesn't ask you, at least not personally. The constitution in Article 112 says that "the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister, after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the elected electoral lists". Did Boris Tadic do this after the last election? It's not. Is it because Boris Tadic has obstructed the constitution of both the Assembly and the Government, Serbia has been without those organs for several months, almost half a year? Is that true? That's right. You didn't work it out in this law either. "The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly the holders of functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the law." Why didn't you work it out in this law? Does this not command you to the Constitution or not order you to do Boris Tadic? If this had been beautifully explained and explained in the bill, then we would not have had the situation Mr Dragan Todorovic spoke of today, that Slobodan Vučetic, again for the sake of the public, informed Boris Tadic more than a year ago that he had obtained pension conditions, had expired his mandate and had asked the President of the Republic to propose candidates for president. Of course, neither did he, nor do you by law oblige him to obey the Constitution. So, your law is so bad, Mr. Milan Markovic, you don't have to blush, only if it's true, and it's true, as soon as Mr. Nikolic said it, that you didn't write this, but Zoran Balinovac, you really shouldn't be blushing on his behalf, but you shouldn't have come here to represent the icaban, because it's really obvious that you're not able to talk to the MPs about these amendments. It is not that you, as Government, have a different approach to solving this problem than the opposition has, which is perfectly normal and legitimate, but also in that case the opposition is expressing its views, and you are expressing the government's views. No, you don't. Because you don't care much about this law, or the law that will come to the agenda afterwards, because you have, in your part of the government, a completely different concept. You're just looking to call those presidential elections. There's a chance. You won't wait for the other laws to be passed. We're telling you that your assessment is completely wrong, but of course, we don't mind, it'll be seen after the next election. It is also interesting – again, I return briefly to what you have been communicating with your colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure, on the calling of local elections – how did you conclude that it is not celibate to call elections for the mayor of Belgrade under this law, because here we now have to wait for some new law that you say, and I read in the newspaper, and it tells us Marko Blagojevic of Cesid, who boasts that he wrote you the law, and I don't know how you'll defend that law one day when he comes to this Parliament. It is not a good approach for you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that you are trying to speed up, to use that coloquial term, by copying some of the provisions of the Constitution, and by breaking down a law that should be something that you will boast about, and already boast about in public. It bothers you very much when the debate is being held on these laws because the citizens of Serbia who are following the work of Parliament can hear what laws you really have proposed and that, in fact, in this law on the President of the Republic, there is not a shred of the effort of this government, not even your ministry, not even that Zoran Balinovac, because you have just prescribed what the Constitutional Affairs Committee has written to you in the draft constitution, which later, of course, has become the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11913	Thank you. We'll continue our work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11914	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Amendment to Article 3 Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. We've still got the amendment. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As a People's MP, I need some information to be able to perform this important and responsible function. Namely, I would like the draft law to explain to me what methodology of the normative technique was used when drafting the draft law on the President of the Republic and on the basis of which criteria the amendment of the MP Natasa Jovanovic was rejected. Namely, Article 3. The bill, on the one hand, is pointless, and on the other hand it stands, written in a language that is absolutely not a language of law. What does it mean that the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution? It's a notorious fact. Anyone who isn't a lawyer knows that. That's what anyone who isn't and isn't a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament knows. That's the thing that's meant to be. It's really pointless to standard things that are common knowledge. And little children know that the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution. Furthermore, what is stated in paragraph 3: 'By the constitution of a particular jurisdiction of the President of the Republic' – and now, beware, one collokual term that does not belong in the draft law – 'to develop by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly allows it or if it imposes their nature'. I'm sorry that neither the minister nor the secretary of state are here, but since I assume they're both lawyers, they'd have to know that a new engine is being developed that needs to be put into office without the constitution being able to develop because it's not a machine. It was supposed to stand here, if the legislator had already wanted to say this: The constitution of a particular jurisdiction of the President of the Republic can be regulated in more detail by law or – now, this is controversial, whether it can stand – by another regulation. There's a lot of regulations. And the law is regulation, and the government's regulation is regulation, and the rules passed by the ministries are regulations. These are all general legal acts containing general legal norms. And now, if we literally interpret what it says in Article 3. The bill could state that the Constitution of a certain jurisdiction of the President of the Republic can be more detailedly regulated by the Serbian government regulation and the regulation of a ministry, and that is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely pointless. Next, I don't know what this means, "if it's their nature." In any situation in the future, the Government could say: well, this is the nature of the responsibility of the President of the Republic, and now it has to be further regulated, for example by some law, or by government regulation, and then, instead of having a single regulation relating to the President of the Republic, you will have a law on the President of the Republic and, say, ten government regulations that are more detailed or, as the bill puts it, the Constitution in that section relating to the President of the Republic. So I'd like to, according to Article 226. Rules of Procedure, Answers: The methodology used by the legislator when he wrote Article 3. The bill of law in the way it's proposed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11916	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11917	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were many reasons why this amendment was to be adopted and to delete this member of the bill – because it is absolutely pointless. At first, speaking of another member of the law, I mentioned that it would be best if the legislator had already referred to the administration to quote members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the question of the president of the Republic of Serbia, to simply quote them all, and if he did not, then there is no need to do so selectively. The essence of this member of the law is located, honourable fellow MPs, in the explanation given in the amendment to Article 3 and it seems to me to be the amendment of counterpart Prokic. In fact, the essence of this member of the law, the basic meaning of its existence, is that the government can do whatever it wants. Because a member of the Constitution relating to the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic is very clear. Article 112 The Constitution says (please allow me, there is not much, so I will quote: 'The President of the Republic of Serbia represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad; he declares the laws, in accordance with the Constitution; he proposes to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers, after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the elected electoral lists; he proposes to the National Assembly of Functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law;' (please, first mention 'in accordance with the law'), '' he sets out and recalls the order of the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a proposal from the Government; he receives letters of accreditation and impeachmention from foreign diplomatic representatives; he gives pardons and medals; he does other jobs established by the Constitution. The president of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military to set up, improve and disengage Serbian Army officers. "Double is mentioned in accordance with the law." Why am I bringing this up? Because the legislator of this law himself says that "The Constitution of a President of the Republic can only be developed by law or by other regulation if the Constitution expressly permits it." The constitution, I'm sorry, only allows in two cases. Now, the wording – 'or that's their nature'. Look, this is a formulation that we have here: if it warrants the interest of the ruling coalition. Since the constitution does not allow it, it imposes the interest of the ruling coalition. In the light of this bill, respected fellow Members of Parliament, you have several places where the legislator gives himself the right to interpret the Constitution. This concludes that we absolutely do not need the Constitutional Court. What will the Constitutional Court in a country where the government can interpret the Constitution as it pleases? Proposer of this law on page 5. The reasons for the bill speak of the fact that, by interpreting the Constitution, it proposes this, that and that – not to quote these provisions. Also, on page 8. The explanations of the bill, the proposer, means the government, also says that 'The draft law interprets the Constitution by predicting... 'and, in fact, the essence of this article is shown, and why this amendment should be accepted and deleted – because it is the basis for volunteering. What kind of volunteerism? Please, fellow Members of Parliament, read the reasons for the amendment number 3 of your colleagues, Prokic, and you will see what the Government tells us. The government tells us that they will systematically violate the Constitution and prescribe to the President of the Republic all that he needs in performing his duties under his jurisdiction if they assess that it is their interest. Please read the argument of the Government, and you will see that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the Government can also be interpreted, i.e., as they say, to elaborate on the responsibilities of the President of the Republic by sublegal acts. Before me, my colleague Martinovic from the SRS spoke about what the regulation is. Reading the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear which powers can be discussed in the Constitution. It would be fairer to stand only or to accept the amendment of fellow Members to delete this member or that the powers of the President of the Republic are established by the Constitution, and in fact, the essence of this article is the position 2 which constitutes the legal basis for volunteering that will only follow. You will see, honourable fellow MPs, and during the debate on this law, what degree of volunteerism is it, as you had the opportunity to see this afternoon in the debate, when, for example, we were talking about the state of local self-government, when the black-and-white minister said that the constitution can be interpreted in a way that corresponds to the interests of the ruling coalition. Because if the government changes the decision on the composition of temporary councils in 11 municipalities in Serbia in which it has imposed a forced administration, and forms the larger one on the principle of party representation in municipalities that have been cleared and where forced administration is introduced, then I will believe that there is a Constitution. Until then, the government absolutely violates the Constitution and the bill creates the basis for further violation of the Constitution. And that is why this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11918	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The draft law on the President of the Republic, in fact, confirms our remarks, which we made Monday and today, that this is a law that has a lot of ambiguity and that can be interpreted in different ways. It is the provision of Article 3 and the Proposer is right to say: either let the Constitution be applied or at least arrange what the Constitution has already predicted. Namely, I will begin with the reasoning given by the Proposer in relation to Article 3. So the public knows what this is about, what we're talking about here, I'll just remind you. Article 3 has the title "The responsibilities of the President of the Republic", and says, "The responsibilities of the President of the Republic are laid down by the Constitution. The Constitution of a specified jurisdiction of the President of the Republic may be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly permits it or if it imposes its nature’. So, since we've heard the wording of Article 3, let's see what the proposer says in the explanation. "The responsibilities of the President of the Republic," says the Proposer, "can only be determined by the Constitution." That's what article 112 did. However, when explaining this provision of Article 3 of the Law, the proposer says: "The said provision originates from a constitutional formulation under which the President of the Republic, in addition to the tasks specifically listed in the provision of the Constitution that entitles him to prescribe the powers of the President of the Republic, 'executes other tasks specified by the Constitution'." So they called on that provision. Please, let me remind you, in article 112. The constitution stands at 8: "Do other jobs", but "defined by the Constitution", not other jobs, any jobs, which we will write. This, in fact, becomes a controversial provision in Article 3, which says, "The Constitution of a President of the Republic can be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly allows it," so be careful now, 'or if their nature dictates'. So, the nature of that regulation. What does that mean? In Article 112, the Constitution has laid down its jurisdiction precisely. The Constitution is in some other members – when it talks about the Constitutional Court, about the National Assembly, about the Government – prescribed the powers of the President of the Republic and no longer has ''or when nature orders''. The second questionable moment here is that "the powers can be developed" (although I agree with my colleague Martinovic – that they can be arranged in more detail) "law or other regulation". It can't stand this "other regulation." How will this be discussed by another regulation, or by the office of the President of the Republic? Why am I saying all this? To actually show that this is the formulated Article 3. The bill doesn't make any sense, and it can cause confusion and it can open space for some things that don't comply with the Constitution. It is this provision that says that this can happen when it comes from the nature of the President of the Republic. Someone's going to interpret the nature of jurisdiction? So, what do we think? We believe that the Constitution has accurately prescribed the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. The law on the President of the Republic makes sense then if those powers, and only those powers allowed by the Constitution, are closer to the office. Our main objection was that they were not closer to the orderly authority of the President of the Republic. There is one part, though, that speaks of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic when it comes to the People's Assembly, but not anymore. However, it leaves room for different interpretations and for, even, breaking the Constitution. Here's an example, I listed it on Monday, and I could probably now appeal to that Article 3 if this is how I was adopted. When Article 112 is read The Constitution, where the duties of the President of the Republic are specified, cannot be found anywhere in the jurisdiction to coordinate security services, to infiltrate the work of internal affairs and other state bodies. The President of the Republic is a state body and his relationship with other branches of government is, in principle, a balance, if you remember what the Constitution says, mutual control. Like this, it's mixed up. Where is it – now I ask the Proposer – constitutional basis for this job? We know and don't hide. You remember, in May, when the government was formed (this is not our invention, the press passed it on), Solana said: Kostunica cannot run the security service, it must be Tadic. To do this and to implement it, I quote what the press was carrying, then, this government, you made a decision or regulation session, I mean, a decision to do so. The basis of that decision was not in the Constitution, but in the Law on Government, which says the government can make decisions. You see, when it's a vague formulation, when it's a vague law, when such opportunities are given, then something can happen that has nothing to do with the Constitution. For these reasons, I don't think the promoter has offered a good formulation, a good member. If he just wanted to rewrite the Constitution, there was no need to rewrite it, and if he wanted to regulate jurisdiction, then he should have had jurisdiction defined by the Constitution to determine and nothing beyond that. And it cannot remain a formulation that it can be done by some other regulations of lower rank, etc., and cannot remain a formulation that competences can be decorated closer, elaborated, and if the nature of functions requires. It's already in the sphere of interpretation, not to say divination. For that reason, I think the amendment promoter was right. Either make a good formulation and a good law or, in a situation like this, we don't need a law that actually only makes more confusion than solves the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11920	Thank you. The word is made by MP Nenad Prokic, according to Natasa Jovanovic's amendment. May I have your attention, please? We are still on the amendment to Natasha Jovanovic. We haven't changed to the amendment of Nenad Prokic. I didn't read it. So we just have a procedural thing, wait, please. Thanks for your help. Does anyone else appear by amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Nenad Prokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Nenad Prokic, about his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11921	The esteemed chairman, colleagues, of course, that colleagues Martinovic and colleagues Obradovic are right, because I am right. When a radical, socialist and LDP agree on something, then the proponent should pay particular attention because it is a very important amendment and it was likely difficult to find in such an agreement a mistake. The high rank of the President of the Republic shall not allow the powers of the President of the Republic to be regulated by acts of a lower rank than the law. The general approach given to Article 3 provides broad opportunities for abuse and thus the Government would allow its acts – the current text allows – to discuss the matter of the president's jurisdiction, which is legally unacceptable. So, according to the proposed member, the government can issue a regulation with sublegal acts and, let's say, in its opinion interprets the president's jurisdiction. So, there's an obvious intensity of "a strong government - a weak president". In the event of a President's discharge under Article 118. The constitution of the president is given a mandate from the citizens, and the Assembly can resolve it. This leads to the prime minister controlling everything in the country, including the president. It is difficult to understand the Democratic Party even this time because – how can it allow the president's duties to be reduced to protocol functions? Should Tadic be the party's strong president and the country's weak president? If this amendment were adopted, then the Constitution of the guaranteed authority of the president could discuss the Assembly, not the Government, and that is something that would be very important. It's just that the explanation that rejects this amendment is very illogical. The fact that the processing of jurisdiction is raised to the level of the law rules excludes sublegal acts. How can the Prime Minister determine the authority of the president? That doesn't make any sense to me. I'm under the impression that the promoter didn't even bother to put something smart to heart, so my further persuasion is probably inconsequential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11922	The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Pesic. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11923	Dear Chairman, I cannot say, Mr. Minister, because there is no Minister, I think we are discussing a very important member of the law that really allows great volunteering. I'll explain that, but it doesn't make sense if we can't get an answer from Mr. Secretary. Are you in charge of giving answers? You can't talk. If you can't, I suggest you take a break until the minister arrives. So far, several MPs have been very argumentative about this article. It is very important and we demand that the minister give an explanation and tell us that such a member could have been written at all. If he's not going to explain it to us, there's no point in moving on like this, tra-la-la into the wind. I ask the minister to come, to take a break until he arrives, because there's no point in making an argument now, and others have done it, and we don't have an answer. That'll go without any answer. Let's hear an explanation for the refusal of these amendments, starting with Mrs Natasha Jovanovic, to the others who have made new proposals in our amendments. I demand that the minister appear. Here's the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11924	Thank you. I'll give you your time back. Thank you, Mr. Minister, have a seat. You've just been asked to appear in the congregation hall. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11925	Mr. Minister, Article 3 of the Law on the President of the Republic has really caused a very heated reaction from the MPs. They made very significant remarks on this article and very well-founded amendments, from it being deleted, until the LDP proposed that Article 3(2) should be amended and read as follows: "The Constitution of the President of the Republic can be developed by law". Since the Constitution is precise when these powers are laid down by law, it could only stand, if that is at all necessary to say, but only such a formulation comes into account, because no other laws, any other regulations, and that means anyone, government, this or that, cannot change and elaborate the powers of the President of the Republic. I will read again to you Article 3 of that Law, paragraph 2: "The Constitution of a President of the Republic can be developed by law or by another regulation", which we have all disputed here, "only if the Constitution expressly allows it", you know what it means, and there is something very strange here – "or if it imposes their nature". If you're already in "natural," what do I think is metaphysics, some kind of philosophy - what's the nature of something? - if you put something like this into the law, then it couldn't have been as an alternative, but it could have been only cumulative compared to what the law says, and it couldn't have been 'or'. It means that we can or are outside the Constitution, where he prescribes where the law will be laid down, that, based on this alternative to the nature of jurisdiction, regulations can be passed. This provision does not comply with the basic constitutional principles. I can't put these two reasons alternatively, but only cumulatively, possibly. In order for the act to weaken the legal force of the Constitution in general to develop the authority of the President, it is necessary to permit it to the Constitution and of course it can require the nature of the authority, but only in accordance with the Constitution. As it is written, Mr. Minister, the provision leaves room for calling on the nature of jurisdiction to a simple majority in the Assembly or, worse still, by some sublegal act of the Government, or someone else, to change and extend the powers of the president – I must tell you, perhaps in harsh form, but not exaggeration – in an orderly political community, such a procedure is called a coup. I'm asking for your clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11926	The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11927	Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's too harsh to call it a coup and it's not in line with this discussion. Article 3 may have caused some misunderstandings. I was hoping that the argument given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia was enough, but it wasn't enough, so I will try to explain why we have defined ourselves for this position. So, the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution and I think there is nothing controversial about it, that we all agree on that. The Constitution of a specified jurisdiction of the President of the Republic may be developed by law. So I can't change, I can't increase, I can't shrink. They're working themselves out. Very precise - 'I can work out a law'. You ask what law it is. It may be the military law, which will come on the agenda, the Security Service Act or some other law. It can be developed by law, and it says, "or by other regulation." When we say "Second Rule", I took the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the thirteenth Head of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic is, and then it says, "Secrets of the President of the Republic," and it's being discussed, so, "Proposal of candidates for certain functions"... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: What is jurisdiction? I'm not going into the matter now, what's jurisdiction, what's the cleavage, what's the job description. That's too much already. I can tell you, it says right here, "The People's Assembly Relations and the President of the Republic." Now I really don't understand what the problem is. This is where the oath procedure is being discussed, the proposal of candidates, and the proposal of candidates for certain functions is a jurisdiction set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, I have a full understanding of the political segment of these discussions, but sometimes it seems to me that this policy completely ignores what is written, and the law that is on the agenda, and something that should be an elemental knowledge of the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11928	Thank you. National MPs applied for the word: Dragan Todorovic, Zarko Obradovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Zeljko Vasiljevic. Please, in that order, have an understanding. National MP Dragan Todorovic has his word and I also thank Mr Todorovic for helping with the clarification of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite attempts by the Minister to somehow try to explain this argument to the Government and to say that this is okay, indeed, Mr. Minister, this argument, as well as the previous one, as well as this latter explanation of almost almost all amendments, are indeed insurmountable. The constitution has very precisely defined the responsibility of the President of the Republic and there is no dilemma in this matter. Mr. Nenad Prokic's amendment exceeded, given that you did not accept the amendment by Natasha Jovanovic to delete it. It is very precise: 'By the constitution of a certain jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, they can be developed by law'. What sublaws of the government, the National Assembly, about the home order of some home council, the National Bank of Serbia, any other, that I do not further order what might come into consideration? Why do you allow such opportunities when it comes to the President of the Republic of Serbia? It is precise by the Constitution, it can be precise by law – and done business. No, you leave it here – this is already intention – you leave the possibility that if it suits you later, you change things, and that's the problem. Unfortunately, we're facing another problem. And when the law is passed, and precise, state institutions don't respect it. As among other things, he does not respect the President of the State, or the Republic, because he has failed to fulfil his obligation to the Constitutional Court, although in time he has received information on the situation relating to the Constitutional Court. I can also inform you of another institution. It's the National Bank of Serbia. The Management Board has requested that public undertakings, agencies, inter alia and the National Bank, be in accordance with Article 15(1). The law on free access to information receives information on the salaries of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia, Vice Governor, members of the NBS Council and the Secretary-General of the NBS. Watch Governor NBS's response. He says: Regarding your memo, the number and the one that was admitted to the NBS on 13 November 2007, in which you are looking for data on the level of earnings, i.e. the fees, which were received by the governor, Vice Governor, members of the Council and the Secretary-General in September 2007, we point to the following – we believe that the NBS is not obliged to supply the requested data. Can you believe the governor of the NBS wrote a response like this and delivered it to the board of directors? I just can't believe it. Article 15 is as clear as tears, there's no dilemma, but he thinks he shouldn't. God forbid we asked him about Simic. What would you say then? But despite the fact that he thinks the National Bank is not obliged to provide us with the data, they still delivered some data. They think they're very smart and that in this way they're going to go around what we're looking for very simply, just for September. We didn't ask for a year back or two years, etc. They say 'we have sent you a report', so they state exactly which section, which page – where you can see about who is the key leadership and list the same people for whom we asked for wages. It also lists the amounts, but the total amounts allocated for salaries in 2005 and 2006. It was all placed in one place and said that in 2004, the total was allocated for salaries, in millions of dinars, 2,903,000,000 dinars, and in 2005, 3,062,000,000, means about 62,000,000 more. But from 2005 to 2006, I simply can't believe there was this much salary increase in the National Bank of Serbia – in 2005 it was 3,062,000,000 and in 2006, 3,311,000,000 dinars. How can this total salary increase occur at the National Bank of Serbia? Who approved it? How did this increase occur? This is over ten percent. And they do not answer the basic question – what is the salary of Governor Radovan Jelasic? - because on the basis of this information, we could easily conclude that he bought his villa completely legally on the basis of a salary he receives as governor of the National Bank of Serbia and there would be no dilemma. However, in this way, it is quite clear that, not only the National Bank, but also many other institutions, i.e. public enterprises, to which we have sought data, avoid providing information which they are obliged to give, by law. Normally, we will also file a complaint here, as we have referred to other public companies that have not provided us with information on the salaries of the director, or the chairman of the boards of directors. I sincerely hoped that we would get this data much faster, so that we could first take a position on the Administrative Committee, and then, on the basis of this information, take a position and the Assembly, and in some ways commit its officials to boards and agencies, or members of the ruling coalition or party, to oblige their party activists on these boards, that the amount of the monthly compensation should be in line with the economic strength of the state, i.e. with the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11930	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. In fact, I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, there's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry to interrupt the debate for a moment. It is obvious that all MPs of the opposition have the same opinion on the amendment to Article 3 and that should certainly interest the government's representative. I reported to the Rules of Procedure because we had just received a report from the Legislative Committee, which discussed the draft law on the President of the Republic. At least I'm shocked by what I just saw, quite accidentally, in this report. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly to reject the amendments, and then to list the amendments of Miletic Mihajlovic, Milena Stankovic, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Dragan Todorovic, Neboja Randelovic, Zeljko Vasiljevic, Dejan Mirovic. I am now asking the President of the Legislative Committee: Where did you, Mr. President of the Legislative Committee, get the right to propose to the National Assembly, as a Legislative Committee, to refuse amendments? Article 45. The Rules of Procedure are very clear: ''The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly, as well as the questions of the single legislative methodology and other issues of importance for the uniform legal and technical processing of acts brought by the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee shall consider the notices of the Constitutional Court on the status and problems of the implementation of constitutionality and legality in the Republic, opinions and indications of the Constitutional Court on the need to adopt and amend laws and other measures to protect the constitutionality and legality, as well as proposals and initiatives to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly. The Committee shall monitor and build a legal system and report to the National Assembly." Furthermore, Article 146 states: "The Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments with offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly. Discarded amendments cannot be debated and are not voted upon.' Therefore, there is no possibility that the Legislative Committee should propose to the National Assembly to reject amendments. I haven't been able to look at all these amendments now, of course, I've looked at them all before, and I haven't noticed that any of the amendments submitted are contrary to Article 146 or that it's untimely, incomplete or offensive. I certainly know it's not the amendments between Dragan Todorovic and Dejan Mirovic, but I don't think they've stayed, at least for all I've seen. So what you have tried – probably to imagine the Legislative Committee as a parent committee for the law on the president – is not possible, it is not true and you could not do so on that basis, because only such committees can propose that an amendment be rejected, of course with an appropriate explanation. Mr. Ratkovic, he was trying to... (President: Time.) I quoted at least two minutes... So this is what Mr Milos Aligrudic was trying to do, at a time when he was chairman of the Administrative Board, several times to plant the National Assembly, and each time we warned him – he was persistent, but eventually he gave up on it. This is your second time. It's really unserious, irresponsible. I don't know what your intention was. Do you want to cut down the amendment debate? I really don't know why you're doing what you don't have the right to do under the Rules of Procedure. You will vote as you wish, you will pass the law without any amendments accepted, we understand that. But that does not mean that you can forbid us to participate in the work and to warn you every day and every day of this Rules of Procedure. As angry as you are at us using the Rules of Procedure, by your assessment, you are seriously doing such things as we have to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11932	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, under Article 101. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished colleague of the Witch of Radet, you have rightly quoted the provisions of the relevant members of the Rules of Procedure. You will allow me to conclude, first of all, that no amendment has been rejected. And you are right when you quote and interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in which the amendments are rejected – when they are untimely, when they do not contain all the elements and contain offensive content. So none of the amendments submitted have been rejected. Several members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia regulate the work, jurisdiction and decision-making process of the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly "The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act, which is addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system". On the basis of Article 79(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly's proposal for a bill at the board's session is first conducted a principled search, then a search in particular. The review in particular shall be carried out by the members of the draft law to which the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed to introduce new provisions’. In the view of the second paragraph, it has been established that ‘after the search has been completed, the Committee shall submit a report to the National Assembly containing the opinion and proposals of the Committee’. I think we agree here, too. In Article 139(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure found that ''the competent committees... in their reports, i.e. in their opinion, I can propose to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the draft law in principle.' Therefore, this article lists the committees responsible – all committees are responsible – the Legislative Committee is not here as being absorbed as one who is not in charge of certain areas because its competence has been established. Furthermore, Article 147 found that the committees responsible are obliged to "review the amendments submitted under the draft law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which to reject them". In Article 146(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure stated: "The Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be submitted to the National Assembly", which in particular was not because none of the amendments submitted had been rejected. The conclusion, therefore, is that it follows the obligation of the Legislative Committee, when it comes to considering the law in principle, to propose in its report to the National Assembly to accept or not to accept the draft law in principle. We are now coming up with a key issue, which is the issue of amendments and making the relevant decisions of the Legislative Committee. As regards the decision on the amendments made, the Legislative Committee may propose to the National Assembly that the amendment be accepted or rejected, as referred to in Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or reject, as governed by Article 146 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure. A member of the law may be subject to several amendments. Given that the Legislative Committee is considering amendments from the point of view of their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, it is possible to submit to the same member of the law several amendments which are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and to propose different and sometimes mutually opposed material solutions. If the Legislative Committee consistently applied the Rules of Procedure and proposed to the National Assembly to accept all amendments submitted to the same member of the law, which are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, this would mean that they propose to accept amendments that have a mutually opposed content. For this reason, in the practice of this committee over a long period of time, the 'Committee to the National Assembly proposes to accept the amendment' is replaced by the wording 'the Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible'. Since it is possible for more amendments to be submitted to the same article which are in line with constitutional and legal provisions, this formulation is therefore going on – that the amendment is legally possible. In the event where the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, it shall do so for reasons of non-compliance with the amendments with the constitutional and legal system. When the Legislative Committee rejects the amendment... (President: Mr. Ratkovic, time. )......................................................................................................... He does so because the amendment is untimely and because it is incomplete or has an offensive content, as I have already said. I have here orally explained the decision-making process, the decision-making process and the decisions taken by the Legislative Committee, and in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as chairman of the Committee, I can also deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11934	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11935	Article 1: 'This Rules of Procedure shall regulate the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the National Assembly) and the way in which the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament are exercised'. Article 2: 'The National Assembly shall be President of the National Assembly'. Article 3: "The seal of the National Assembly is round form with the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia in the middle and with the inscription, the Cyrillic letter, around it: 'Republic of Serbia – National Assembly'. 'I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, this is what my colleague Ratkovic's explanation looked like. He began to read the members of our Rules of Procedure who had nothing to do with what I asked as a question, and in none of what you read, you found the possibility that the Legislative Committee would propose to the National Assembly to refuse amendments. That's the point. If you wanted to say something, then you should have explained it. You've read everything I've already quoted. Then why didn't you read the authority of all the boards, and then you'd see clearly what kind of committee has this possibility, which is possibly the parent board for this law. That's what my colleague Martinovic is going to talk about, so I'm not taking what he wanted me to say. The fact that you have read to us what the Legislative Committee can, what it cannot, how the committees do in general - it has absolutely nothing to do with what I have put in place as an objection to this report by the Legislative Committee. You showed us, colleague Ratkovic, that you do not have an adequate answer. In fact, you have shown that you have done this report contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you're gonna call again, keep reading, then tell me what you're planning to read, to help you. Here, I'll read it. It's really unserious and irresponsible. I do not need it in writing; whether it will be in writing is up to you. So I don't need it in writing, I know it well, and I'm sure all the MPs think I'm right. Even you believe it, but I don't know what you'd say, you can't say, I don't know what it was like to make a mistake like this. But I am saying this primarily for the sake of the record and for the sake of the public, that the citizens of Serbia understand how the National Assembly, the majority of the assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, works, as far as you are concerned by neither the Constitution, nor the law, nor the sublegal acts. You're doing something that comes to you that you think you should. On what basis, you don't care. That's the essence of my intervention. By the way, on behalf of what Mr. Todorovic was just talking about salaries at the National Bank, about three billion dinars, meanwhile we received information that, for example, the budget of the municipality of Panchevo is three billion dinars. Imagine how many, for example, small municipalities should be added together, how many municipalities there are three billion dinars in the budget, how much they make in the National Bank. And how much of Jelasic is it, as you heard earlier, must not be revealed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11936	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Albianic, there are no conditions for the continuation of the session on amendments to the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic because he is severely injured by Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government, are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly session, amendments submitted on the draft law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected." (President: I ask the People's MPs not to leave the room, we continue the work. ) We have received only a report from the Legislative Committee, which is a missing report, where the Legislative Committee is actually trying to assume the authority of the parent committee. The Legislative Committee is not the parent committee for the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic. The Legislative Committee may only state its opinion, or its position on whether the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution or not. The Legislative Committee cannot measurely engage in the essence of the amendments and propose that it be accepted or rejected by the National Assembly. Only the parent board can do that. Mr Albianic, today is November 28th, 4:00 p.m., and we do not have a report from the parent board on amendments proposed by MPs to the draft law on the President of the Republic. The question arises which parent committee is in charge. I must admit that the Rules of Procedure on this matter are insufficiently defined, but only two committees come into consideration. If one or the other of those committees had filed a report, there would have been no mistake. It is possible that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs may be responsible because it is in Article 44(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say, among other things, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering 'principal issues of the application of the Constitution'. The draft law on the President of the Republic directly regulates this institution on the basis of the Constitution and could, under this Rule of Procedure, be inaugurated that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the parent committee. Or, in Article 48, the Committee on Justice and Administration, where it is said that "The Committee on Justice and Administration is considering the draft law, other regulations and general rules and other issues in the field of organisation and the conduct of judicial authorities and law enforcement bodies", so as not to quote everything in order, among other things, "the organisation of government, electoral system and association of citizens". Therefore, either the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Committee on Justice and Administration must meet and give a measurement opinion whether to adopt amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on a draft law on the President of the Republic or not. This debate is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, there are no parent committee reports and, if a law is adopted on the President of the Republic, make sure that there is a basis for initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been severely violated. I repeat once again: there are no reports from the parent board, and the Legislative Committee is not the parent committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11938	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Please, honourable Members of the People, under Rule 139. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, "unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions". The second thing, as far as the Legislative Committee is concerned, I would like to ask the Legislative Committee how you will submit the report to the Assembly. All amendments that have been submitted will be discussed in the Assembly, regardless of the attitude, because it is our duty. We're considering amendments. I ask you to understand, to continue to work peacefully, and the committee is here to resolve this kind of question with each other, what exactly do you want to formulate the answer to stand for the amendments. I ask you not to prevent our work because all amendments will be considered. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11939	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Albianic, since you are not a lawyer, you may not understand what the problem is. No procedural conditions, no procedural conditions from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to continue the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11940	There is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11941	There isn't. It's scandalous, Mr. Albianic. The law is passed not on fishing societies (I will not underestimate anyone), the law on the President of the Republic is passed. Mr Albianic, in the hands of the President of the Republic, according to the Constitution, foreign policy, defence of the country, the military, etc. It would be scandalous, from a political point of view, for us to discuss amendments to the proposal for a bill on the President of the Republic without a report from the parent board. It's scandalous, Mr. Albianic. Take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. In the end, take care of the dignity of the institution of the President of the Republic. The president of the Republic will not always be Boris Tadic. He probably doesn't deserve us here to worry much about whether the amendments are in line with the Rules of Procedure or not, but we in the SRS want to protect the integrity of the institution of the President of the Republic, not the integrity of this individual or that individual. Therefore, there is absolutely no condition for the debate to continue on the amendments until the parent committees are declared. According to what you said, it turns out that the National Assembly should go over the Legislative Committee report because the Legislative Committee said that a number of amendments should be rejected, and you are now saying, "We will talk about all amendments." Either you're right, or the president of the Legislative Committee is right. I think neither you nor he were right, but the Legislative Committee couldn't propose to the National Assembly that certain amendments be rejected. It's simple, it's overstepping his jurisdiction. He can only say: the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not. He can't say: we suggest that the National Assembly rejects him. What does that mean? The amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but, well, we think it should be rejected. The Legislative Committee cannot prescribe its own jurisdiction and shall assume the competence of the parent committee. It's either the parent committee on constitutional matters, or the Committee on Justice and Administration. Nor do we have a report from the parent board, and it turns out that we now need to respect the report submitted by the Legislative Committee. This is starting to look like a circus, not serious work. For months, we have been listening to the National Assembly work, how the MPs are to blame for not passing laws, etc. We have been listening for months that elections will be held for the President of the Republic, how the ministries work full steam, as the ruling majority is ready in the Assembly to vote these laws, only, behold, the wicked, corrupt radicals do not allow it. Then we come up with a debate on the bill, where the chairman says, well, it doesn't matter what it says in the Legislative Committee's report, we'll discuss all the amendments; there's no parent committee report, and that doesn't matter. What does this look like, Mr. Albianic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11942	Mr Martinovic, I suggest, indeed, that on the Legislative Committee you resolve the issue of the formulation, but the amendments will be discussed here. That's one. Two, because there is no opinion, as you say, of the parent board, is the ruling majority responsible if it has not convened the relevant committee and it is going with this type of responsibility to consider an appropriate legislative proposal. But, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have conditions, the Rules of Procedure allow the above-mentioned legislative proposal to be considered without that opinion, and do not block the work of the Assembly because there are certain shortcomings that you point to. We can't block the work, now stop, please. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how to express myself, maybe it's my fault, but here, I'll try to explain again to Mr. Albianic what I wanted to say. Mr. Albianic, we don't have a report from the parent board. It's a scandal in itself. It's a scandal. Secondly, we don't have, if we consistently accept what you're saying, not even the Legislative Committee report, because you've actually told us now: go through the Legislative Committee's report, it doesn't matter what the Legislative Committee said, 'We propose that you and these amendments refuse', but we will discuss all amendments. Well, you, Mr. Albianic, are suspending the Legislative Committee's report. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure now. That's what this is about. No, Mr. Albianic, the terms of the session. It's not because there are no reports from the parent committees, nor do you accept the Legislative Committee's report now. You are calling on the MPs not to adopt the report of the Legislative Committee, that is, not to say at all. It's a shame, Mr. Albianic. You simply turn the work of the National Assembly into a circus. We are discussing an extremely important law, a law that regulates the status of President of the Republic. I repeat: we are not just talking about Boris Tadic's personality here, he probably doesn't deserve to spend that much time on him, but tomorrow some normal president of the Republic will come to take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. Why are you thus destroying the authority of the institution of the President of the Republic? There are no conditions for the session to continue. The Legislative Committee can't now ad hoc meetings and discuss who's in charge, how the report can be rewritten and the session takes place. So, the least you can do now is take a break, meet the Legislative Committee again, make a report that's sweet to the Rules of Procedure and meet the parent committees. But it can't be done while the session lasts. So the session must be terminated and committees responsible for doing their part of the job. That can't be happening during the session, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11944	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11945	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. For us, the SPS MPs, the situation is quite clear. The vice president who runs this session has admitted that this is a scandal, but he says "it's a scandal, but it's our scandal, it's nothing to do with you from the opposition, and don't get too excited, we'll take that kind of scandal out on our back, it's not our first time to make that kind of scandal and don't get too upset about our scandal." (President: Thank you, Mr. Radovic, for those kind words. But it really is a scandal, because for months you've kept talking about elections for the President of the Republic, and now you couldn't provide nine MPs, i.e. A quorum is required for the National Assembly Committee to give an opinion on the law. It really is a scandal and there is no rational explanation for such behavior. Otherwise, I came out with the need to respond, on behalf of the SPS, to this opinion of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Albianic, as much as my memory has served, in the past few years we haven't had any problems of this kind, until this calls out. It is interesting to repeat for the second or third time that the Legislative Committee gives us this kind of opinion. The Continuing Legislative Committee gives one opinion, we warn him and, as a student who gets a bad grade, so he has to go to the correctional exam, it happens again that the Legislative Committee is doing badly. The point of the whole story is whether the amendments that have been submitted, including several SPS amendments, are legally possible or not. That's what the Legislative Committee needs to tell us. If he tells us right, everything else is simple. Unfortunately, we have a Legislative Committee that, for what reasons, avoids a precise statement. If Mr President of the Legislative Committee quoted the provisions saying that the Committee should state whether amendments are legally possible or not, then it would be logical for the first sentence of the legislative committee's report to be: 'All amendments to the draft law are legally possible', and for amendments which are not legally possible to state for which reasons they are not. This is how the Committee and myself both brought us into an unpleasant situation, that we do not know what is the consequence of this opinion of the Legislative Committee – does this mean that, on the basis of the Legislative Committee’s claim that the amendments have been rejected, these amendments will not be the subject of the work and debate of the MPs of the National Assembly, or something else. You can't see that from this report. From the explanation given to us by the president of the Committee, which was very extensive, but, in our opinion, absolutely incomprehensible, you also do not see what the consequence of this is. It is necessary for the Legislative Committee to meet again and to know, as MPs, what is the report of the Legislative Committee, whether amendments are legally possible and whether these amendments that are legally possible will be the subject of the debate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11946	Thank you. We'll keep working. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic. Please, again, I suggest that the Legislative Committee meet, if it is necessary to consult with the President of the Assembly, and to arrange what options there are - there or there is no, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11947	But, Mr. Albianic, is this amendment legally possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11948	The amendment is legally possible. There will also be talk of those who are proposed to refuse. All amendments will be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11949	Okay, Mr. Albianic, but it's not yours to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11950	The assembly is appropriate to allow amendments to be accepted or not voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11951	Yeah, you said that nicely, but you're not the Parliament, you're just the chairman. We, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, need the opinion of the Legislative Committee, not the chairman, regardless of what opinion he had on himself, whether or not the Assembly. In any case, I think it is really pointless to work until the Legislative Committee has met and that its opinion on these amendments is seen, because for each of the following amendments, we will be in a position to get a direct answer on whether it is possible to discuss it at all. So this amendment is legally possible, since it's not listed in the list of those who... Amendment accepted... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Whose opinion is that? )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11952	May I have your attention, please, Mr. Obradovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11953	Mr. Chairman, bring a little order into the session of the National Assembly. Will the Legislative Committee meet and give a different opinion, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or will they not? Here, we've intervened several MPs. It seems to me that your obligation, as chair of this session as well as Mr. President of the Legislative Committee, is to tell us whether the Legislative Committee will hold a session and whether we will receive a report, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or not. That's the point, we know what to do. Otherwise, this story of ours really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11954	Okay. It's obvious we have to carry out our consultations. I'm taking a 15-minute break. I call on the heads of the parliamentary groups, the chairman of the Legislative Committee and the chairman of the First floor Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Tomorrow, at 10:30 p.m., the Justice Committee is scheduled to discuss the amendments. The legal dilemmas related to the Legislative Committee report have also been resolved and there are conditions for continuing work. Does anyone else appear by amendment from MP Nenad Prokic? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11956	I'm sorry about this little delay. So we came up with a very reasonable answer to the question why we didn't work, or why we don't have the board's opinion. I've explained it before and there's no need to repeat it. The amendment of counterpart Prokic is on the agenda. I think it's perfectly logical that the Proposer accepts this amendment. If the proposer in Article 3(1) has put in place a formulation that the powers of the President are determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains the competences, and among those dozens of powers of the President of the Republic are only two designated as competences which are subject to legal debate, then it would be quite logical, fellow Members of Parliament, to accept this amendment, because the formulation of this amendment and is that the powers of the President of the Republic are governed by the law. The government has given one, in the SPS's opinion, a negligent response, that doesn't really point to the essence. Because if it were a matter of substance, then that amendment would be accepted. In fact, the Government has told us in an explanation of the rejection of this amendment why Article 3 was made in the first place. It's a bill of law. This is the famous position 2. which says: "The Constitution of a President of the Republic can only be developed by law or by other regulation if the Constitution expressly allows it"—the Constitution explicitly allows this in two cases only—"or if it enjoins their nature". This formulation of 'their nature' is, in fact, the essence because it gives the government the opportunity to explain that nature in a way that corresponds to its interests. I must honestly say that I expected this bill to be much more content, that it would taxfully list everything that needs to be elaborated (but within the Constitution of the established powers of the President of the Republic), that there would be no wording of the general character, that there would be no formulations that give the possibility of arbitrary interpretation and simply that it would not provide the basis for it to be interpreted as anyone will. I think that the end of this argument by the Government, the Proposer, is unserious, I would dare say and funny, because the claim that there is no fear that the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic will be discussed under the regulations (there is also the Rules of Procedure of the Government and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly), that there will be no fear that this will be the opposite of the Constitution because, for God's sake, the Constitution is respected, and there is the Constitutional Court - dishonesty, and it is dishonest because this government, in the past few months of existence, has shown that it does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We, the SPS MPs, spoke several times today about the fact that the government, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, introduced a temporary administration into 11 municipalities, or in so many municipalities, without respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, made a council that corresponds not to the structure of party representation, but to the structure of the ruling coalition. Remember, the day before yesterday we talked about this law and you saw the legal basis for forming a National Security Council. The legal basis for forming a National Security Council is a member of the Government Act that says the government can make decisions and – a decision has been made on the formation of a National Security Council. Well, that way you can make any decision. We simply think that there was a far better quality solution for this law to accept the amendment of fellow Prokic, because it is only possible. But there's something else I need to say about this amendment. And during the debate on this law, and also on some before, here is the minister, so it can confirm or disprove it, unfortunately, that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, at least some of which we have considered so far, are not as high-quality as has been said months ago and simply allow for the possibility of a different interpretation. You will see later, when we talk about some other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regarding the president, and especially when we talk about the content of this law regarding the president, that some things are completely out of the Constitution. When I say "the subject of interpretation in a way that the ruling coalition wants," for example, we have adopted the Government Act and we have had the legislator, the legislator, given the possibility that the government and ministers who want to resign could explain it. It's seemingly petty, but, I'm sorry, there's no such thing in the Constitution. Those little things change the essence of the Constitution. And then, these little things in practice get big. I think it would be best for the promoter to accept this amendment because it's quite logical. Item 1 – The powers of the President are contained in the Constitution and Article 2 – that they may be subject to the law. Because the Constitution in two cases provides that the provisions of the Constitution may be subject to legal review. For these reasons, we in the SPS believe that this amendment was absolutely to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11957	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go. First the minister. Mr Vasiljevic, just one second, I apologize. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11958	I will try again to defend our solution and explain why we did not accept this amendment. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 states: 'The Constitution of the President of the Republic may develop... '". First of all, I would like to make no mistake, to clarify Section 2 which states that the powers set out in the Constitution can be worked out, so I cannot change. I think that's the most important thing to be clear to us first. The powers are exclusively laid down in the Constitution, and laws and sublaws can be developed. Now here's the dilemma, on the one hand, someone here mentions why they're adding laws, and a number of MPs are criticizing a solution where sublegal acts are mentioned. As far as the law is concerned, here, in the Constitution, in Article 112, which we are all looking at right now, it says like this: The powers of the President of the Republic – let's say: it gives pardons and medals. It's obvious we're going to have to have a pardon law, as well as a medal law. That's completely obvious. We also don't have the express law here, and we know that we will have the defense law, as we will have the military law. So, in that sense, some responsibilities have such a nature that, by the logic of things, the law is passed. So, this jurisdiction regarding distinctions, by the logic of things, by its nature, imposes upon the adoption of a proper law. As regards sublegal acts, I have again taken the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because it is obvious that the National Assembly has developed the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic under Article 112, paragraph 4. The Constitution – 'proposes to the National Assembly bearers of functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law'. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the XIII chapter say, "Proposal of candidates for certain functions", so that the members of 183 and 184 discuss how it is done. So he's developing this jurisdiction that's been established by the Constitution. Of course, there are certain laws between this Rules of Procedure and the Constitution that work out that matter. That's why I think we're absolutely right that we didn't accept your amendment, which is why I think our argument is right and that it comes from what we now have as a practice both in this Parliament and in our legal system at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11959	Thank you. National MP Željko Vasiljevic. Here you go. Well, don't... Come on. It's a replica, you're mentioned, so it'll be a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11960	Mr. President, we had a quiet flow this morning and I ask you not to disturb this idyllic atmosphere that exists in this assembly, that you do not allow us, the representatives of the opposition, to report to the Rules of Procedure and to the amendments, because we do not abuse the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11961	Here you go, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11962	I'd like you to listen to me. You weren't there and you weren't in the work before noon, a good part of the day, and don't you decide whether one or the other. I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure and it is your duty to make it possible for me to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11963	A member of the Rules of Procedure was violated just now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11964	Member of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly and member of the Rules of Procedure as head of the Parliamentary Group and member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of wrong interpretation. Please meet me where you prefer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11966	Mr. Markovic, it's nice to hear from you to explain to us the current Constitution and the current law and Rules of Procedure that exists and the previous Constitution. This Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were made under the previous Constitution, which you say is no longer valid and simply not applied. Because, if applied, your party colleague, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, would call elections in units of local self-government under the existing Law on Local Self-Government. You've told us here that only what you think is necessary. There's no reason to explain why the government won't accept some amendment that way. This was not an SPS amendment, it was an amendment from counterpart Prokic. We think it's a meaningful amendment because it prevents abuse and volunteerism. Unfortunately, you have convinced us, in practice, to interpret the Constitution as you will. If it wasn't for that, we'd say, okay, by the Constitution. You can't interpret the Constitution any way you like. Excuse me, is there a member here who refers to the government saying the Prime Minister can explain his resignation? It doesn't say anything. You've passed a member of the law to give the Prime Minister that opportunity. Does it say the minister can explain his resignation? It doesn't say. You adopted it. So you're interpreting the Constitution as well as writing in law... And that's the legal rape of the assembly that makes up the majority of the assembly and, okay, like what the vice president said -- that's our mess, but it's our mess -- okay, but for the record. So this amendment absolutely makes sense. It's up to you to accept it or not to accept it. But, no offense, don't put us in a situation, we're not as ignorant as you're trying to show us – this amendment makes sense and you won't accept it, okay, but we know what the point is – the point is that the provision of Article 3 of Article 2 of this Law gives the basis for interpreting the law as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11967	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zeljko Vasiljevic, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, let me not repeat what everyone has already said, in two cases, in Article 112. The Constitution, which regulates the responsibilities of the President, shall be laid down in Article 1(4) and Article 2(2) so that these responsibilities can be further regulated by law. Let's assume that's the case, but I'm asking you which member of the Constitution is regulated that these powers can be regulated by sublaws and even less by their nature. Indeed, I would not now say that someone has not given much thought to the consequences of this article, because here if you read Article 3 says, that I would not quote an entire article, 'if the Constitution explicitly allows', but watch this now - 'or if it dictates their nature'. This means that we can interpret: even though the Constitution does not allow it, but requires their nature, we can regulate it in another way. I would like first of all to ask you who it is that interprets their nature in accordance with this procedure, restricts or extends the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. I am asking not only the question of restrictions, i.e. the extension of the powers of the President of the Republic, but also the jurisdiction, meaning the reduction of those powers. Here you have written, it seems to me, that it is possible for the powers of the President of the Republic to be discussed and by sublaw, say the Rules of Procedure of the Government or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let's assume the hypothetical situation, which is very possible, to create a new parliamentary majority tomorrow, and that the president of the state is not from the party and is not at the will of that parliamentary majority, and we will say 'we' to the Rules of Procedure, because I think that we will be the majority – when we want to limit the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, let's say, I banalise things, to say that we have to skip seven meters with the stick or jump eight and a half meters further to be able to perform some functions. I would like to say that in this way of regulating this legislation, you have given great opportunity to the Government and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which you can have a minority tomorrow, or that the President does not have a majority in Parliament, and that we should amend the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, which is changed by a simple majority in this assembly, and limit the powers of the President of the Republic. I really don't think that was the purpose of this law and that you should really think and accept the proposed amendment. Why else do I think you should accept this amendment? Serbia depends on a very strange situation, which you called - cohabitation between the president of the state and the Prime Minister. Yes, that's what Mrs. Radeta says, a rude word, but I wouldn't go into the essence of that word, it can be interpreted in another way. Indeed, I would like to say that if there is no cohabitation tomorrow, that is, there will be no desire for co-operation between the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament and the President of the State, for this Serbia and for this country there will be major problems in its functioning because there will be a limitation of the authority of one authority over another. If you allow this bill to remain as you have suggested and do not accept this amendment, believe me, there will be a situation that I experienced the other day on the Traffic Committee. It was a really very ugly picture, which guarantees that Serbia will have a hard time moving forward in this relationship of strength. I experienced that Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic asked the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance to schedule a meeting with the minister to resolve some of the long companies "The Ways of Serbia". Then beg him: Let's see, let's find a way, try to set up a meeting with the Minister for the National Investment Plan, let's make a deal. Mr. Minister, it doesn't necessarily mean that the government will always make up people from the same ruling majority and that all state authorities will be of the same majority. I think you really need to make sure that the competences of certain state authorities are clearly defined and that exactly who can do what can be done is prescribed, so that there is no absolute blockade of the work of these most important state authorities, and the consequences will be suffered by the citizens of this country and this country. There's one more thing to tell you, Mr. Minister, though you're trying not to listen to me and ignore me, but it won't bother me. When this law comes before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, it will surely realise that it does not comply with the Constitution and, believe me, the five judges elected by the president, Mr Tadic, will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11969	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, after the amendment, then Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11970	Mr President, in the debate in principle, I have said that opposition MPs have largely submitted objections to the same members of this law, or amendments, and I think it was done for a reason. I will bind this Article 1 which has already been disputed, which is that 'the President of the Republic expresses the state union of the Republic of Serbia', and Article 3, where it is said that 'the powers of the President of the Republic are determined by the Constitution' and in paragraph 2: 'The Constitution of a President of the Republic may be developed by law or by other regulation only if the Constitution expressly allows or if it enjoins their nature'. Since I've been quoting, I'm asking that time to be taken away from me. Mr. Markovic, in his explanation, although his intrinsicity was that I should not accept the admancipulation of Prokic, convinced me that it was good that the constitution of the president of the Republic could be dealt with by law. Why? In the light of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or legislator in this case, it is said that "The Constitution prevents the National Assembly and the Government, depending on the relationship between the political forces, weakens or strengthens the position of the President of the Republic." Please, if there is a fear of the relationship between these two forms of government, where the President is part of the executive government, namely the influence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the influence of the Assembly on the work of the President, then it cannot happen that the Government by its regulation (Government Act, Article 43) prescribes that the President is at the same time (by the Constitution) the commander of the armed forces, or whatever you want to call him, and the President of the National Security Council. In my opinion, these two things are incompatible, and we'd have to discuss them. If it is security control, why do I care what kind of relationship Tadic and Kostunica have. Their mistrust, played by Rade Bulatovic as head of the Security Service, is of no interest to me. I'm interested in the fact that Rade Bulatovic is not listening to me, but it is the work of the competent board and the judiciary, not the president of the Republic. Therefore, if Mr. Markovic said that other laws, such as the law on defence or security law, would develop the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, which follows from the Constitution – so, not to change, change, change, but to elaborate – then at least Article 3 would have to say that the laws such as the law on defence, the security law, etc. to specify the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, not that, in the reasons of Article 3, the President, particularly in the domain of military affairs, is governed by the scope of his activities by sublegal acts. So, I think that the MPs, that I am not spreading here now, because I see that there is, some fear, and in this argument it says -- the danger of the solution contained in the bill does not exist because the regulations must be in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and their consent with the law and the Constitution is subject to the control of the Constitutional Court. Please, and by the very fact that this assembly can, on the basis of the request of one third of the MPs, with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, change the president of this country, or to relieve him of his duties, as you say, by a two-thirds majority - says that the influence of this assembly has. Therefore, I think, as the respected Minister Markovic said last time that the Constitution in some members is contrary to itself, that the same elements of indeterminateness, and I say they are not random because it is a non-trust within the ruling coalition that we can see in the way the government works, and sometimes in the exit of coalition partners (when they are not adopted here, so the coalition partner comes out, you give a break because you no longer have a quorum or similar things), it can be seen that part of this debate is related to Article 3 in fact to the relationship in the coalition itself. I think that such an important person, with a relatively broad range of possibilities of influence both on social practice and on relations in the ruling coalition or opposition and on the unity of the citizens of the state and political structures, as you are looking for in Article 1, must have better precise powers than this law has done. So the width of this space left to the President of the Republic is due to mistrust within the coalition itself. Therefore, I think that, then, in an unprincipled way, it is left out to specify what the president, whatever his name is, Boris Tadic or otherwise, is really going to do tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11971	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The total time is seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Nenad Prokic's amendment is essentially good and should be accepted. That remark I made regarding the reasoning given by the government regarding the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic remains. In my opinion, there would be a higher spirit of legalterminology to say "no "development of the Constitution", rather than " more detailed regulation of what is written in the Constitution". However, if we ignore this termological remark, what is contained in the draft law in Article 3(2) concerning Mr Nenad Prokic's amendment, it is in fact contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because Article 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "The President of the Republic is governed by the law". Therefore, only the law can regulate the issue of jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, which is one of the general arrangements of the Constitution. The Constitution excludes the possibility to regulate the issue by sublaw. Mr. Minister said there are certain provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that regulate the powers of the President of the Republic. But the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is, again, an act of the National Assembly, as is the law. For us in the SRS, it is truly pointless and politically extremely dangerous, for example, for the powers of the President of the Republic, which are governed by the Constitution, to regulate in more detail, for example, by the Serbian Government's regulation or by a more detailed regulation or by some other general act adopted by a particular ministry. It seems to me that the billmaker didn't have enough in mind what was meant under sublegal regulations. It's not just the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it's the smallest thing, it's the sublaws and regulations of the government, and the general legal acts passed by the ministries, and the statutes of public enterprises, and the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia, and the general acts of the units of local self-government—all of these are sublegal acts. If we literally and literally interpret what is written in the bill, it would turn out that the powers of the President of the Republic can be more detailed or, as the Proposer says, elaborated, and sublegal regulations of ministries, local self-government bodies, public enterprises, institutions etc. Of course it's a completely pointless solution. The legislator had to remain in the constitutional formulation, therefore, so that the powers of the President of the Republic could be more detailedly arranged solely by law, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that there would be an end. No sublegal regulations can simply be considered. I would like to remind the ruling coalition's gentlemen that ten years ago they laughed at the government of Mirko Marjanovic how everything and everything in Serbia is regulated by regulations. It was a general place in the Democratic Party's political propaganda. They laughed, and now they open the door to such a same phenomenon – that the Government is more detailed in its regulation on the provisions of the Constitution relating to the powers of the President of the Republic. Mr. Minister, this is an extremely dangerous phenomenon. Do I need to remind you that this practice was done by Mussolini's Italy: there is no assembly, there is no parliament, there is no law, Mussolini puts everything under his control, it is headed by the government, and it governs all areas of social life. That's the same practice you had at Adolf Hitler's time in Germany. And you are now practically introducing that practice into Serbia. It doesn't matter what it says in the Constitution, it doesn't matter what it says in the law, we can sublegally regulate the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, and not only if the Constitution allows us, but "if that's their nature." And who's going to interpret whether it requires the nature of the President's jurisdiction? This will mean, in practice, that if the interests of the ruling coalition are questioned, if it is questioned by the president of the Republic who is from our camp, then we will call for help from the government, the ministry, the National Bank of Serbia, the public enterprises, the municipalities in which we are in power... Write down, people, sublegal regulations on how to work out the provisions of the Constitution, and that will in practice be thrown out. Such a phenomenon is extremely dangerous. So I draw your attention that if you refuse this amendment and refuse the amendment of Parliamentarian Natasha Jovanovic, you will violate the provisions of the Constitution. And to this DS gentleman, who considers himself very clever, I call on them to come out for the speaker of the National Assembly and to explain to all the MPs and citizens of Serbia the legal pearls contained in the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. It's easy to throw away. Come out here, share the trouble your minister has. Man doesn't know how to explain the indifference contained in this bill. Somehow, he's kicking, he's trying, he's pulling some sort of solution out of his brain, and you're throwing it out of place. It's not easy to defend a bill that you haven't written and that you haven't read in detail. Mr. Secretary himself, a while ago, almost made a lapus. It says – in the light of the law given by S, and instead of saying – the Secretariat for legislation, says – Government. As we don't know, the bill on the President of the Republic was written by Zoran Balinovac. Of course we know, as we know, that he also wrote a draft law on state administration and a draft law on government and a bill on civil servants and that Minister Milan Markovic simply liked this ungrateful duty to explain the draft laws in which he did not participate. I understand that this position is quite delicate, that it is difficult, that a man should really be a high-ranking lawyer and defend such solutions, but then, gentlemen of the DS, help your minister, come out for a pay phone, so say, yes, Mr. Minister, you're right, what the MPs of the SRS say is not true. Like this, you're throwing it out of place. It's easy. Come out here to see you all of Serbia, and explain how the Constitution says that the powers of the President of the Republic are determined only by law, and here in the bill of law, you say: it can also be done by some sublegal act. So, come out, as your President says - on the line, and explain how such solutions could have been contained in the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11973	Thank you. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the President of the Republic relating to the conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic. I quote a member, just to know what it is: "The conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be ensured by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations". I have provided for an amendment to delete the word "minister" from this article because I believe that every regulation, every law, every norm in the law must be formally perfect, perfect, unequivocal and that certain terms are not repeated repeatedly in the same norm. Namely, the ministry is a state body. If it is already in the formulation, in this sentence, mentioned that the state authorities are obliged to provide conditions for acting as President of the Republic, then there is no special need to highlight the ministries. If the government and other state authorities are mentioned, then it is quite clear and precisely defined that these are classified both by the ministries and all other state bodies. Now, what does the Government say in an explanation, why doesn't it accept this amendment? I quote, "Amendment is not accepted. The government and ministries have separate powers, and the ministries are not part of the government. For example, when it comes to the President of the Republic, independent communication with the President of the Republic has the Ministry of Justice (at the pardon), the Ministry of Defence (in certain matters of defence and matters related to the military) etc.' Why, then, in this formulation of Article 4. The bill isn't put in place, say, General Staff or some security services that also have direct communication with the president? So that's some logic and the regulation must be from that logical aspect correct, which this obviously isn't. But not to go any further, this amendment is of a technical nature and should, in fact, only point to these logical and formal inaccuracies and inaccuracies. I want to look back on what's already been done, which is, in fact, these amendments that have already been discussed here, or the whole law, even though I mentioned it in the principle debate. Namely, the complete proposal is formal, I said in the principle debate incorrect, and now I'd be more precise - bad. From a formal point of view, not to enter its essence, every regulation must be correct, in the sense that it is precise, clear, logical, unequivocal. This one is far from it, and the problem with this government is that it insists on proposing laws in the same way. It is not only this law's problem, it is also the problem of others who have arrived in the procedure at the Republika Srpska Assembly. In other proposals, other laws, you have the same situations – that certain members are logical and linguistically incorrect and incorrect. I would also really ask the government and this Legislative Secretariat to get a lecturer there, so when someone writes something, to teach it nicely, that it would be linguistically correct and correct, that we would not get such suggestions in the Assembly. And, unfortunately, many of our amendments are not accepted at all. Most members of the ruling coalition do not read the proposals, do not read the laws, it is only pro-voting, and such a regulation goes into the legal traffic afterwards, which is bad. I have to refer to the previous member, Article 3, since I have time to discuss it, but that still applies to this whole law. Namely, the powers of the President of the Republic are laid down by the Constitution, that is correct, but the Constitution in Article 112 speaks only of seven competences which are explicitly expressed there. Point 8 states that the president "executes other matters of the Constitution" and there is a position 2 relating to the authority of the President of the Republic in the area of defence, or military. The law on the President of the Republic is either basic or, as it is said, the parent law for the President of the Republic. It must contain all the powers of the President of the Republic. So that's the regulation that discusses the powers of the President of the Republic, and it's true that the Minister has repeatedly brought it out here, that the laws discuss the powers of the President of the Republic. Of course, they can't be expanded or reduced, but they're being elaborated. This law, as the basic law for the President of the Republic, needs to work out the powers laid down by the Constitution, not to explicitly appear in some other regulations or, God forbid, to sublegal acts. You know, you'll get later, when we go into debate under some other laws, the proposals where there's another law -- the duties and obligations of the President of the Republic are you and so there's ten or more points. All of this was supposed to stand here because this is the basic law for the president, and there are all the powers of the President of the Republic to be covered, shown, and then in those other laws to call on this law when it's important to define it. At this point I wanted to say so much about this, again with the appeal of those who write these bill proposals that the laws must have this logical trail, to be logically correct. Again, I underline that there must be a lecturer out there who will examine all this and get, at least formally, a correct bill. We can't go into the essence now, or we'll try to change the essence of the amendments, but at least let's not write these technical amendments that need to correct your spelling mistakes. At least let that be correct. Your essence and our essence differ, it's obvious, but at least that the proposals are formally correct, correct, and that we don't have those formal remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11975	Thank you. The People's MP Dusan Bajatovic has the word, and let MP Amjad Migati be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11976	The Honorable Chairman, Article 4, whose amendments are proposed to the amendments - I don't think it's necessary to introduce here a story about whether or not the Government or the National Assembly will provide part of the funds. If Mr. Shane is not angry, or, in turn, in the material that we have received, his amendment to Article 4, was earlier, if he agrees with the chairman, I will comment, so as not to appear again, and Mr. Shane's amendment that says it should be the National Assembly. So this is about who the President of the Republic, as a person whose authority should be established by selecting him from a majority in Serbia—although we have a problem here, because we have lifted that threshold for the elections, so he does not have to vote 51% of the voters, right, but that legitimacy has fallen. I return to Article 1 and Article 3, but since we have had two or three failed attempts to elect a democratic candidate for president, right, then we have to agree that this legitimacy of the president is a little bit, in terms of the number of votes he has to get to express state, national unity and everything else, a little lower, right, I would just remind those who listen to us now and watch, both MPs and those in front of television screens. So, I think the law is a better formulation than it's proposed to the amendments. However, in my opinion, it is also not accurate. There's no one else, but the government and the ministry and the state service. But that's why I miss what it says in Article 3, or, in our opinion, it should. So, please, security control isn't just the president. We need to know how security services cooperate with the president or with the government. With the court, it seems to me, quite clearly solved, even within our legal framework. Also, if I were to miss something here, it would be – that when the Republic of Serbia's budget is adopted, as it is now said that the President will address the Government for the necessary funds, it is precise, rather than two or three items, how much this budget now says very generally, that exactly what the President of the Republic's Office is going to spend the money on its activities. Personally, I think that, for example, the work of the People's Office, as it has been set up so far, is not something that has proved to be neither good nor democratic practice. Furthermore, what worries me about these options that are not specified is what the president, in the course of his action, will ask individual ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who are resolutely belonging to his party. But here we are already entering a segment of the political problem and something called morale on the Serbian political scene. Of course, the law can't prescribe everything. I would also be very interested, and here you should say that for the humanitarian activities carried out both the government and the president of the state, donors cannot be public enterprises, at least not in the way they do today. If the donor is a public company for any humanitarian activity, then it should be said, not that party headquarters or representatives of party headquarters, even if it was the President of the Republic, are allegedly dealing with some humanitarian activity, and we have provided funds from the monopoly of public enterprises and similar things. In my opinion, therefore, this formulation cannot be much better. It may refer to a part of the budget spent, with me very much wishing that we hadn't done this set of laws that follows the constitutional law, instead of the gentlemen of the ruling coalition arguing within themselves, in fact being given up for public debate and really considering themselves as a set of laws. Then, as an MP, I could see in time, in consultation with the experts, because we here mostly have secretaries and a few expert associates – in countries in the world it is different, you can do it externally and internally, if you have a budget, as an MP, by the Assembly to hire funds and hire experts. Just under this law, I can't exactly see what synapses will be like, what are parts of the executive government called the government and the president of the state going to be like? That's where I count security services. I'm not sure, Mr. Milivojevic, that relationship between Mr. Tadic and Mr. Kostunica is as firm as you say. You had your own idea of cohabitation. He, of course, is not very handsome if he was translated in a lexic or language way, but it is nice that the cohabitation can survive if it comes to financial or other interests, at least when it comes to ministers or, say, the mayor of Belgrade or similar things. Thank you for helping me. I see you're quite familiar with the problems, but you don't want to solve them in a way that you'd like to prescribe, which is called democratic. It's about me finishing up. So, what's the point here? About most of the very important laws, prescribed by the Constitutional Law, we don't really have time to engage ourselves, because we seem to be camping here for a little while, these are the requirements, and on the other hand, we haven't been able to externally engage the experts available to us, either by the parties or by the MPs as individuals, and to look at the completeity of a whole set of laws that should limit the political future and democratic relations, as we like to beat them, today in Serbia. Therefore, the separate consideration of this law on the election of the president and of the president merely means that within the ruling coalition there is a need to ensure relations between you that, if you fail to adopt a whole set of laws, as foreseen by the Constitutional Law, in a slightly better way than through the harsh application of the old law, we would place the elections for the President of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, with the will of perhaps a congregation minority or one party, in fact, for the President of the Republic. I think there should have been more tolerance if we had spent the summer planning because there was no law in the assembly procedure, that at least some of these draft laws, at least in principle, or at least in their own way, in the way they think to connect, were to make synapses when it comes to the government, the president, the division of power in Serbia, could have been delivered as some political framework or political project to the MPs to think about them. It's obvious, and it's the general insistence of the majority in this assembly, that there's nothing to consult about, or at least we don't know, opposition parties and professional public in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11977	Thank you. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11978	In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, among other things, the promoter says, "The "Ministers are not part of the Government". I've heard all kinds of nonsense from this government, but I've never heard that kind of nonsense before. That's amazing. It's, for one thing, political illiteracy. How are the ministries not part of the government? What makes you think that? Why didn't you write that in the Government Act, so that we know that the government is one thing and the Ministry is another? It's an absurd that's so stupid, I don't know... Then he says - because communication with the President of the Republic has a certain ministry. This is where they forgot the State Department. However, it is against every democratic practice. Why? Yes, they can have technical communication, but the essence is based on agreement, government policy, and then the minister can only technically discuss the solution with the president. He's not an independent facility, so he's going to deal with them. Only if you had in mind the following: Defence Minister, Foreign Minister propagating, as president, Atlantic integration. Then they themselves go, especially, arranged by the president, made a decision, a sublegal act, and who cuts the government. Ministers have the right, regardless of politics, to do so is not a government policy or a National Assembly. In practice, you do it these days. Both the defence minister and the foreign minister run away from the Committee on Foreign Policy, should be responsible for such actions, and it goes on and on to tell the world that Serbia is to pray for Euro-Atlantic integration, says Atlantic, without any legal basis. I'd like the minister to explain to me what legal act the ministry says are not part of the government, to learn something from them, if we have something to learn, since it seems that the Assembly is so stupid, so unintelligent, that they passed the Government Act that says the ministry is not part of the government, and they didn't know it. That's amazing. I don't know how the parliamentary majority accepts that. Do we want every ministry to make a special government, every ministry to have its own policy, and there's no state policy that's executive, i.e. Government? I really don't understand anything. Let's get someone smart to explain to me what law it is. What political system does it have? Where is democracy when every minister can go with the president as he wants? Come on, explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11979	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11980	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the provision of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, because, as DHSS's MP and member of the LDP parliamentary group, which has requested the establishment of a polling committee on the business of the company "Delta", we need information relating to the following. On 21 November, the Privatisation Agency issued a public call for participation in a public auction selling 16,142% of the total capital of the economic operator 'Ce Market'. The initial price is set at 122,436,000 dinars. This means that the initial price of one "Ce Market" action is 3,778 dinars, representing 48 euros per share. When the Securities Commission, through a public call, sold 76% of the total capital of the 'Ce Market', you should be careful, it did not require the customer on a public call that he was obliged not to buy the remaining shares at a lower price than the one offered by the Securities Commission, which is normal, it is probably clear to all. In this way, it is obvious that the majority owner of the 'Ce Market' can now buy, and it is known who he is, the social capital of the 'Ce Market', is now offered, for six times the price he paid through the stock market for the offer to the Securities Commission. It is clear that the majority owner now has the advantage, that is, because he now manages the company and will not, of course, have other customers. In this way, the state offered to sell the shares of C Market to its current owner for six times the price, and you know who it is. You've been told by the Competition Protection Commission. The initial price had to be equal to the bar at which the shares were sold on the stock market by the Commission’s value charter, meaning instead of 122 million and something – 734.616,000 dinars. In this way, the Privatisation Agency knowingly damaged social capital for a modest amount of 612,180,000 dinars or in euro – 7,652.025. When Minister Dinkic heard of it, he couldn't help but wonder and it was suspended. But it's also responsible for the attempt. Who will be responsible for this attempt to steal social capital? That's why we need a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11981	Thank you. Article 4 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11982	Thank you. It's a shame the minister isn't here, but that's how I'm left just to try to explain to the MPs the reasons for this because the government has expressed its position, so probably the minister himself can't change it. I'd like to start with an explanation and put out a little bit of illogicality. And by reason, the one who explained the amendment, in fact, wanders all over the story. The explanation says, "Amendment is not accepted. It's true that the National Assembly is making a budget, but the bill sets out the jurisdiction of the operational segments of the executive authority... '". In Article 4, gentlemen, it does not say that operational conditions for the exercise of the duties of the President of the Republic are provided by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies. Article 4 states: "The conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic shall be provided by the Government, the Ministry and other state bodies," and I have suggested that the "Government" be "The National Assembly". I ask the question: Since you say that the budget is being adopted in the Assembly, and there are other state authorities here, is the derogation of the Assembly what you are doing – you are putting the National Assembly under "other bodies", or is derogating what I propose, so in some opinion, the Assembly should not be in office of the President of the Republic? Well, it's not the Assembly in office of the President of the Republic, but the Serbian Parliament is creating conditions for the work of the President of the Republic. And that is undoubtedly true what you confirm in your law in the next members. In Article 23, you say, "The National Assembly and the Government are obliged to inform the President of the Republic at his request of questions under their jurisdiction." So in Article 23, you say that the Assembly is in charge, but you're not going to admit it in Article 4. Is it really an essential thing, then, or is it just that you won't accept it, probably because it didn't come from the ruling majority? So you directly opposed Article 23 of your non-admission of the amendment. In Article 7 of the same law, you say as follows: 'The funds for the work of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia'. So, who brings the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Does this mean that this assembly, since it does not provide conditions for the work of the President of the Republic, does not have to vote the budget in that part to set the funds for the President of the Republic? This attitude does not provide, as you say in the explanation, the jurisdiction of the operational segment, with this law, who will clean the room of the President of the Republic - this law provides conditions for the performance of its functions. And if the Assembly really matters, I'll make a few more arguments about it. If we say that the President of the Republic expresses state unity, where can he better come for his position than with the MPs representing the citizens of the Serbian state? Who better to explain to him what state unity is in Serbia than the MPs of the National Assembly? Next question: where is he supposed to speak? Only the Serbian Parliament does not intend to have its own Rules of Procedure that the President of the Republic can speak in the Assembly. If my amendment is accepted, conditions and obligations are created to define in the Rules of Procedure that the President of the Republic can come to the Serbian Parliament, that he can speak to Parliament, that he can seek Parliament's position and opinion on some issues and that this opinion is binding on him in a certain way when he expresses state unity. In all other conditions, and in this formulation, I don't see it going to be like that. So, only if you accept this amendment will we have a balance in the exercise of power between the Government, the Assembly and the President of the Republic. Otherwise, we will have one completely different situation, which is not constitutional, which is not in accordance with the Constitution and which is not in line with the opinion of the legislator, which is expressed in these other members. I'd ask the minister when he gets here, just to answer my next questions, and then I'll accept that I'm mistaken. If he explains to me that the Serbian Parliament, apart from the legislative authority, does not have a certain executive authority and does not have a certain role in the process of appointment, or the election of the Constitutional Court judges elected by the president, then I will also accept that the Assembly has no obligation to create conditions for its work. If that is not the case, if he says it does not exist, that the Assembly has no obligation to provide for his working conditions, then I will say, okay, we, as a Parliament, are not proposing a list to the President of the Republic, and in that case, this amendment is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11983	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. We're going in a row. The first has the word of the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić, then the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11984	Thank you, Mr. President. For the SPS, Mr. Srdjan Shaina's amendment is unacceptable. With all due respect and the valid argument he offered, the Assembly is no one's service, nor can it be. Therefore, it is neither a service nor a president of the Republic. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia draws powers from the Constitution to provide the President of the Republic with certain issues, such as the election procedure of the Constitutional Court judges and others, that I do not list them here. I do not dispute that it was Mr. Shane's noble intention, but it is unacceptable for us that in this way the National Assembly is decided by the Government and other state bodies as a public service of the President of the Republic. That's not allowed. The National Assembly is the highest legislative body in this country and a representative home. The President of the Republic is elected in the direct elections, as well as the MPs, he has other constitutional powers, but the National Assembly, if he does not think that the National Assembly will adopt the budget, so the President of the Republic with the Secretariat and employees will be able to carry out the Constitution and the law of the prescribed duty - then it is something else, but it is not, in our understanding, a place in this amendment. So, for us, this amendment is unacceptable. The constitutional position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is fully defined, as is the constitutional position of the President of the Republic. In that sense, I would like to say, the amendment is such that we could not accept it under any circumstances, because for the SPS the position of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly is clearly defined. We wouldn't be able to, in this way, by one amendment, provide a memorial to the President of the Republic that he might eventually think that the National Assembly is his errand boy. I don't believe he wants to, but who knows who can be president in this country, maybe someone might think the National Assembly is the service of the President of the Republic, which we don't want to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11985	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Let the People's Messenger Vladan Batic be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11986	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I need a little clarification when it comes to amendments to Article 4 and colleagues of Zlatan Jovanovic and Srdjan Shain. First of all, I hope that it is absolutely clear to all that we have three equal branches of government – legislative, executive and judicial; that the legislative branch of government, although equal, in some way, I would say, is more equal than the others, in the sense that it chooses the executive power, which is chosen by the judicial authority, which, under the current Constitution, has the possibility of dispensing the President of the Republic which is also an executive power. But we have, again, to clarify, a bicep executive authority, meaning the Government and the President of the Republic. It seems to me that my colleague Baralic, without the intention of challenging the replica, may not have understood these amendments, which we in the SRS think are acceptable. True, the amendments are not identical. The amendment, submitted by Zlatan Jovanovic, stipulates that conditions for the performance and jurisdiction of the president of the Republic are secured by the government. This "Ministers and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations" is proposed to be deleted. Really, if we tell the government, what does it mean with the government and the ministry? We have heard a completely unambiguous argument – we also have it in the context of the bill's proposal and in the explanation of why these amendments are not accepted – that the ministries are not government. That's something I've really heard for the first time. At first, when I read it in this bill, I thought it was a printing error. However, when I saw it in an explanation, then I see that someone who wrote and explained the law and the explanation why certain amendments are not accepted – really thinks that the ministries are not government. I ask the currently absent minister: what does the government do, who makes the government, if they don't make it the ministries? Of course, in this sense, all other state authorities are also government authorities, except for the judicial branch of government. If there were any agencies here, directorates, public enterprises, they're all government authorities and it's enough to say "Government." What counterpart Shain suggested, that the conditions for the execution of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic should also be ensured by the Assembly and the Government, but should also be deleted in that case: "Ministers and other state bodies... ". In the light of the very proposal for a law, when explained in Article 4, it is said: "In principle, the conditions for the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic are provided by the Government, the ministries and other state bodies in accordance with the regulations. It is about online rules, contained within the legal order of Serbia, which are determined by the state authorities who by their work – through co-ordination or co-operation – allow the President of the Republic to exercise its office and competence. Thus, for the sake of example, the tasks relating to the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic to grant pardons are done by the courts and the Ministry of Justice etc." Such an explanation cannot possibly fit into this Article 4. It could then have stood, in the extreme case, if we wanted to cover all branches of authorities providing conditions for the exercise of the president's functions and responsibilities, to be both the National Assembly and the Government and the judicial branch of power. Perhaps that would be, say, the best solution, but certainly not in terms of how counterpart Baralic understood that all these other bodies are some kind of service of the President of the Republic. [[I say again, I have no intention of challenging the replica]] No, not at all. Of course not, because the President of the Republic is elected by citizens, but the President of the Republic is replaced by the National Assembly. The President of the Republic doesn't have any authority over the National Assembly and I'm guessing it's not disputed for anyone. But when it is said that conditions are provided, conditions and resources, and the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, defines the funds in the budget for the President of the Republic. And that is a very important role of the National Assembly. You know that every year, since Tadic is president, we talk (and it will certainly be when we talk about next year's budget these days) about how the president is financed, why other funds exist besides budgets, which are, who can finance our president without being budgeted? So the famous question is, what is the National Office financed from? Not to mention the role of the People's Office of the President, which has turned into the offices of local communities in every local community where the DS has power, of course, in every municipality. And what do the citizens of the People's Office have? You refer to the People's Office letter, bring out the problem and get it, while Gilas was still director of the National Office, the answer that says: "Dear Marco Markovic (who has spoken), the National Office has received your letter, we have come to know your problem and we inform you that we cannot help you. Thank you for calling. "It is so humiliating and embarrassing for this citizen who expects something from his president and the National Office, which is thus presented in the media. So that people's office is also funded by some means, through the budget. I have to admit that I haven't looked closely at the budget for next year, so I don't know if there's any funding for the People's Office, since last year it was magically tried to avoid, in order to prevent a story at all about the role of the National Office and Dragan Gilas, as the then director of the National Office, etc. To return to this amendment. It was certainly not an intensities, at least not an SRS parliamentary group, and I am convinced that neither Mr. Shane, that any state body is subordinated to the President of the Republic. The President has his own ingenuity contained in the Constitution and only within that can he move. No other body is in any way serving, God forbid, the President of the Republic, whoever it is. When I say the President of the Republic, I don't mean Boris Tadic, I mean the institution of the President of the Republic. We have an idea, Mr. Minister, that it would be a good idea if you did not accept the amendment of the SRS, and that you would eventually define yourself to accept Mr. Shane's amendment, to make a legal order, provided Mr. Shane agrees with that. It would be good for the Legislative Committee – it is his role, Mr Ratkovic – to produce a legal technical order of Article 4. The draft law also requires that all relevant national authorities, i.e. all branches of government, be contained in it. But I repeat, not in a way for anyone to be served here, because they are equal branches of government, but they know which kind of work, in accordance with the Constitution, is being carried out and it should be contained in this law as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11987	Thank you. The reply was requested by MP Srdjan Sajn, then by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11988	Comrade Baralich, I agree with you on this. But you probably didn't notice the first part of my exposure. I agree with you that this law does not define the craft services provided to the President of the Republic. So this is not where service services are defined - who will clean his office, who will wear his shoes or who will bring him different shoelaces. The point of this member is something else. The purpose of this article is to create conditions for the President of the Republic to express the state unity of the Republic of Serbia, as stated in Article 1. And the expression of the state unity of the Republic of Serbia cannot be obtained without obtaining the opinion of the National Assembly on certain issues, because only the National Assembly can talk about what state unity is, in that sense, in Serbia. I agree that the government also has certain powers in policymaking. However, what did we bring here, the Kosovo Resolution, if the president of the country, who is participating in these negotiations, should not respect it? Is that a condition for his work or is that not a condition for his work? Next thing you know, I'm going to back up on what's being said in Article 23 one more time. If the information from the congregation is not a condition for his work, then why are we obliged to give it to him? Why, then, have we defined Article 23, which is likely to be adopted by the adoption of this law in this congregation? Then why is that necessary? Then that's not necessary either. So I agree with you that this is not a trade cooperative providing craft services to the President of the Republic. However, I hope that after this presentation and you agree with me that the Serbian Parliament creates conditions for the President of the Republic in that it gives it its views and opinions, it makes certain decisions through the adoption of laws and budgets, and that, by analysing all this, it can perform its function. Otherwise, why should we give him certain information from the congregation? Why should we adopt his budget? So, since the minister's here, I'm just going to repeat to him the question that was asked. Minister, do you also think that by adopting the list of judges of the Constitutional Court, the Serbian Parliament does not create conditions for the President of the Republic to decide who will indeed be the judge of the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11989	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Rajko Baralic, also a replica, then you, Mr Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11990	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief. We won't agree on this again. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provides a budget for nine and a half thousand budget users, including the President of the Republic. It shouldn't be a special obligation here. In addition, the President of the Republic does not risk anything in front of MPs, he risks to the citizens because citizens choose him. From the National Assembly he can accept the position, not necessarily, while with the Government that thing is slightly different. So I never claimed that the National Assembly could become someone's workshop with this amendment. On the contrary, the President of the Republic is an institution. He is provided with working conditions, has a residence in New Belgrade, has a residence here across from the National Assembly, has these villas on Topoli, has secret shelters as chief of staff. He's got everything he needs to do, he's got a budget adopted, and he has an obligation to do his constitutional duty on the basis of the Constitution. When she adopts the budget, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt for him as well as for everyone else. The President of the Republic's General Secretariat works, I don't know, e.g. 150 or how many people – well, they are beneficiaries of the budget as well as the other 260,000 budget users in Serbia. There's nothing special about the responsibilities of the National Assembly. And as for whether or not the President of the Republic respects the resolution on Kosovo – it is discriminatory for me, because we here have not declared ourselves on Hong Kong or on these islands there. The President of the Republic and others believe that they can behave beyond what is the mandate given by the National Assembly and, in a sense, they risk a large number of citizens and that is the essence of politics. So, I disagree, that's what I'm saying on behalf of the SPS, that we commit the National Assembly to be, in any sense, logistics to the President of the Republic, because it just doesn't stand. It's two completely different jobs. The constitution has defined completely differently who does what and cannot do this law, this is not the Constitution, to oblige the National Assembly to have a certain obligation to the President of the Republic. In doing so, I have heard no argument except that we should adopt the budget, which I have explained when it comes to the position of the President of the Republic and his relationship with the National Assembly. I've been writing amendments, and other fellow SPS colleagues, so we're going to ask that the money provided for the National Office, which is a para-state organization for us, be transferred to the humanitarian organization fund. So we're staying with our attitude, we're not polluting, we're just everyone's got an argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11991	Thank you. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11992	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. For the third time in this booth, I'm looking for an explanation: why does the state have different arches than the payment of war logs to reservers, former and future Toplice County? I got a fax that supports that claim. I said the other day that one of the presidents of the municipality, one of the parties of the ruling coalition, charged it. I have this fax today, who charged for it. Hundreds of people, including the two judges of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia who are now prolonging, stalling, will not, according to the court, come up with different objections. Serbia can't be a mother to someone, it can't be a stepmother. These people can't be second-class citizens. They responded to the call of their country, and they must be compensated for what they are entitled to. Mr. President, after the questions I asked you earlier this afternoon, I expected you to give me an answer because that answer depends solely on you. When I asked you that, it doesn't matter what you call yourself Mr. Dulic, nor I Vladan Batic, I am the MP of the opposition DHSS and it is a normal situation and a normal thing for opposition parties to criticise the ruling parties. So I criticized you and asked what two bodyguards in Geneva, Brussels, New York and a few advisers would do to you and how much it cost to pay for the taxpayers of Serbia, Serbian citizens. It's not the Alibe's straw budget, so you can spend it on who you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11993	Mr. Batic, let me answer you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11994	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11995	Your question from this morning I forwarded it to the Ministry of the Interior, which is the only one responsible for it, and they will certainly give you an answer. You asked that question the night before last, so this morning, here, now I'm giving you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11996	No, I don't. Just don't get in my word...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11997	No problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11998	It's not up to the Ministry of the Interior, it's up to you alone. I was a minister. I had the honour of being Minister of the Government of Zoran Djindjic. If you don't remember, I remember that the party's motto in one election was fair. This isn't fair, it's not fair. Zoran Djindjic never had bodyguards when he traveled around Europe and the world, and he was much more endangered than you. He didn't have a few advisers, as it is paid by the taxpayers of Serbia. On one occasion, I was in Budapest with Zoran Djindjic. We had to get back early. We were going back alone. I was driving, he was sitting next to me. That's true. Now don't switch to the Lord's Home Secretary and the necessity of security. If that's the case, even if that's the case, why do you need three counselors on all these trips? It's fair to say, I got carried away, I was wrong, I won't anymore, we all have to tighten the belt, it doesn't make sense, I need one man. It's okay to have someone assist you, but you can't lead the world. Ten members of the New York delegation: five lead you and five MPs. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u11999	Thank you very much, Mr. Batic. Your question has been forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior who is the only one responsible for this. I hope you got the answer and you won't answer on this subject again. Do you have, Mr. Batic, any other questions under Article 226 so we can continue to work on the amendments, or shall we...? Here you go. Once again you, then let's keep working on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12000	Mr. Dulic, you're the President of the Assembly and you have no right to give anyone any lessons. Whether I'm going to advertise violation of clause 226, 100, or 127 - that's my parliamentary right. When you have no arguments and you cannot answer the question, then you reach for that cheap rhetoric, angry, arrogant, irresponsible – do I have a question. Answer how much your travels cost in the white world. You took three counselors to New York. You didn't say a word in New York. What do you need counsellors for? And it should be said – it costs $30,000, $40,000 – that's fair. You're the only one who gets it. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to those who are watching. When those who cheat in front of the court in Kursumlia on ice and snow to charge 30,000, 40,000, 50,000 -- that's the problem. When someone else has bodyguards, it's the greatest evil in the world. And when you run them, and now you transfer to Jocic, it doesn't matter. I got an answer from my colleague, minister, Mr Petrovic. I asked him three times, while he was here, if Slobodan Vučetic was still receiving the salary of the president of the Supreme Court of 230,000 dinars, and he retired for a year and a few days. You know what I got in answer? He is not the minister of justice for this because the Justice Ministry is not the beneficiary of that part of the budget. Well, that's not an answer. The truth should be looked into the eyes and, as unpleasant as it may be, said – that's true, I was wrong, it's not fair, I won't do it anymore. So, Mr. Dulic, I said, I'm a member of the opposition DHSS. Any error by the ruling coalition's parties will be made publicly, as the opposition's task is to be a correction of power. If you think this isn't a mistake and you need to travel everywhere with a huge number of people around you, then it's your right and I can't stop you from doing it. But let the citizens of Serbia judge about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12002	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I begin to read the arguments sent by the Government to the MPs why their amendments are being rejected, I cannot take the impression and ask myself a question – whether this is written by a lawyer (or what is already) who is for the Republic or who is for the monarchy. I must really say so, because the role of the President of the Republic, by this law and by the way that the amendments of the Members of the People's Parliament are rejected, are placed in the rank of monarch. Like it or not, that's how it is. I cannot understand an explanation saying that the amendment is not accepted and that the ministries and the government have separate powers, and the ministries are not part of the government. Mr. Markovic, if you say so, it is possible that I do not know, but what I do know is that the government is made up of ministers and that the government is making decisions, regulations, draft laws, etc. And guides them to the people's congregation. One more thing. If that's what you're saying, Mr. Minister, (only come out for this pay phone and say what you're throwing at) I'm glad you're confirming one other thing - that since October 5th, we're calling the Government not in terms of political parties that signify the unity of the government, but the division of power. And that's your problem. Every ministry holds a political party, and there is no one else to enter except the members of the party – both the deputy ministers and assistants and advisers etc. You think such a government can work well? Hardly. Be careful what reads below: "The independent communication with the President of the Republic has the Ministry of Justice (at the pardon), the Ministry of Defence (in certain matters of defence and matters related to the military) etc." The Justice Department, we heard, it's about these pardons. The Department of Defense - why, Mr. Minister? Is it because Cobra, who is provided by the President of the Republic, that the Secretary of Defense has an independent communication with him? And is there a question of the Prime Minister and should the Prime Minister be informed (although he is known to be ill-informed, but should he be informed) about what his ministers are doing? Who will inform the Prime Minister? And you've done so well. I'm just wondering if your law would be like this and if the President of the Republic wasn't Boris Tadic, if it weren't for the DS? Would you so much authority and such independence as to the government of the Republic of Serbia give the president of Serbia, for example, from the SRS, and that you are in the majority that makes up the government? I'm sure you wouldn't. So, when I look at what they wrote, 'communications with the President of the Republic have the Ministry of Justice' (where is the minister, from which political parties? – from DS), "Defence Ministry, in certain matters of defence" (from which political parties is the defence minister? – from the DS, the minister known for supplying the hooligans from the weapons, and that is the only weapon we have), and when I look at who signed this opinion of the Government – Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, then everything is clear to me. Now I also have the right to believe that you've made this government opinion on one of the DS municipal committees, not in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12003	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12004	I wouldn't go into these observations, who's the minister, because it really doesn't matter. Whoever the minister is, the Justice Department is tied to the President of the Republic about pardoning. It's just like that. And that the Minister of Health from the DS - well, not the Ministry of Health to participate in giving pardons to convicts, but the Ministry of Justice. And the fact that the government and the ministries are not the same, that the ministries don't make a government, I thought it was a familiar thing. So the government is the holder of the executive government, made up of the president, vice president and ministers, and the ministry is the authority of the state administration. I don't know how to say it, it's an alphabet to anyone who deals with politics and law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12005	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milosav Milickovic, and then a Messenger of the people, Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Nemanja Sarovic has tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. For the sake of the public, I'll read that article 5, then the amendment. Article 5 refers to the seat of the President of the Republic and the work space, and says in the first position, 'The President of the Republic is in Belgrade', and in the second position says, 'Residency space, protocol facilities, facilities for the stay of the President of the Republic and members of its household in the country and abroad and the work space of the Secretary-General of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic determines after obtaining the consent of the President of the Republic'. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has submitted an amendment to item 2 where he says that after the word "his" the word "family", it means household, and the words "in country and abroad" are deleted. He explained: "The legal obligation exists only according to members of the family household, not to anyone who finds himself or presents himself as a member of the household. It doesn't have to be defined where the President of the Republic is moving'. So, in Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is precisely the number of responsibilities of the President of the Republic, there are eight points, and I think this amendment significantly improves Article 5 of this bill. If you would accept this amendment, Article 5(2) would read as follows: Residential space, protocol facilities, facilities for the stay of the President of the Republic and members of its family household and the work space of the General Secretariat, etc. determines the Government after obtaining the consent of the President of the Republic. Why? The term "members of his household" is widely referred to as the household of the President of the Republic. If we say it's a family household, then it's a narrow term and I think we can define exactly who are members of that family household that can stay in these areas. Secondly, we think that we should delete 'in the country and abroad', for the simple reason that it already knows which residential facilities are in the country, and abroad we have embassies, representations, etc., where in the case of calls, and it is known that, given that the president represents a country of Serbia abroad, he usually goes for a short period, and there is no need for certain allocations and burdens of the budget and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I do urge this amendment to be accepted, and this will significantly improve Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12007	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12008	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Minister, if you just thought you'd leave the impression that you're very smart and that you know the most, you failed. Of course we know who makes the government, and of course we know what the ministries are, but now I'm asking you: who's head of your ministry, are you, like a minister, or your grandmother? I guess you know who's in charge of the ministry and who's in charge of the government. Indeed, you failed, anyway. So, the amendment submitted by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic refers to Article 5, whose title is "The President of the Republic's headquarters and work space". It says, "The President of the Republic's seat is in Belgrade," which is not controversial. "Residency space, protocol facilities, facilities for the stay of the President of the Republic and members of its country of residence abroad and the work space of the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic determines the Government after it has obtained the consent of the President of the Republic." We've had two important remarks here. First of all, what do the members of his, the president's household mean? We don't have an exact definition that they're members of a family household, and in all laws, when it comes to household, then they talk about family household members, and it's true, by law, who are members of the family household. If you say household members at all, you know, the president of the Republic lives in a residential facility, very large, and there are housewives, maids, gardeners, drivers, guards... And now, when the president goes somewhere, or where he is, will all these people present themselves as members of the household? In fact, they are all members of the household – everyone lives in the household, works in the household, receives salaries from the budget, such as the Prime Minister of the Republic – means, in the broadest sense, members of the household. Should such household members be treated as members of the family household of the President of the Republic? Of course not. When it comes to the departure of the President of the Republic and members of his household abroad, the question arises who are members of the household, all of whom will be led to the white world. Will members of his household be treated both by the driver and the housekeeper, and if a woman can't go – the mistress, and the married children, and the outside children... It's really a very wide diapazone that you left here for the president. Again, we warn you that this is not a law on Boris Tadic, but a law on the institution of the President of the Republic. That's why we think it's really necessary to stress here that this is about his family household. On the other hand, we predicted that it would be deleted "in the country and abroad". Of course, in the country there should be and it is known which residence is where the President of the Republic should stay, and should, it is not disputed. There should be no demagogue when it comes to the accommodation of the President of the Republic while performing that function, as well as the Prime Minister, etc. It is simply not possible that someone who performs such a function lives in a residential building, that the apartment building on each floor is guarded by a group of police officers or, as the president is expected, members of the Military Security, etc. So it's not a dispute, but it's a controversial second part. What does "foreign" mean? There is really no need for the law to define where the president will move abroad. Of course there should be services, there is protocol, we have embassies. It is the ambassadors who will determine where the president will stay while he is abroad, where he is meeting, or we assume that he is going there for official visits, so he is already provided with the conference and where he is meeting with representatives of other countries, etc. It's just that this provision is no place in the law. It is completely pointless, and this is also seen from the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, we have an explanation in the very text of the law, where it's just said, "The seat of the President of the Republic is in Belgrade, and the government determines the residence space... "'" means, completely overwritten, I don't read and waste time now. In the government's explanation, we are not told why this is meant to be, but only a copy of which is now spoken, which is Article 5. Explains why the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic is not accepted: "The amendment is not accepted. It is necessary that the President of the Republic be given residence space, protocol facilities and facilities in both the country and abroad." So you haven't told us anything new. You haven't explained why it has to, why you think it's necessary, why you don't accept what I've just presented, which is that the president's protocol and the embassy are sorting this out, or the president's protocol and the protocol of the president of another country where he goes on an official visit. Worse yet, you ignored this part of our amendment regarding family members. We don't have an answer there. You didn't say anything about whether or not you accept that when it comes to the Household of the President of the Republic, it should be marked as talking about his family household. So, obviously, as well as the law written as a leg, it is also written and explained why amendments of MPs are not accepted. Really very unserious, very irresponsible. I repeat what you've heard many times today. We're talking about the law on the President of the Republic. It's a serious law, about a serious state official with serious and responsible obligations, and if you have this kind of charlatanized understanding of the bill and our amendment, then our work really seems to be in vain. I don't think you have to accept any of our amendments, because if you did, then you would accept the Serbian Radical Party's concept solution. I understand that you will not, but when we warn you about the amendments to something of a technical nature, which is such a character that it helps better application of the law, to prevent or minimise the abuse of law, then I really don't understand it, and every time I repeat it, I don't understand that vanity, neither you as a minister, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you, you didn't even explain it to us. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, and I would ask you nicely to answer, do you think in Article 5, when it comes to the Household of the President of the Republic, it should stand "his family household", because we have no opinion of the Government on that remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12009	Thank you. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word. The total time for the SRS is two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12010	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. Mr. Minister came out and said what he said, and that is the answer to my remarks to Mr. Jovanovic's amendment that he is politically illiterate and now assures me that the minister is legally illiterate who wrote it. Why? It is not disputed that the ministry is the authority of the state administration. However, you are in violation of the Constitution, knowingly or unconsciously, which, in Article 123, "Governmental jurisdiction", clearly and loudly states in Section 5 that "the government is directing and coordinating the work of the authorities of the state administration and overseeing their work". So technical communication cannot be outside of that member, that constitution. So you jumped into your own word and showed that it was not in accordance with the Constitution. It's just "Government," the one that controls and directs the work of all the authorities of the state administration. It can't be any different. Don't laugh. Come out and say it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12011	Thank you. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic of the SRS, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, following Mr. Sarovic's amendment to Article 5. I'd just like to show you a dilemma that you might need to think about. Namely, it says here: 'Residency space, protocol facilities,... determines the Government after obtaining the consent of the President of the Republic.' There's a possible problem here. What happens if the President of the Republic is from one political option, and the Prime Minister, or Government, is from another? According to this article, as it stands, the government is proposing, the president is giving consent. What if what the government is proposing is not acceptable to the president? Then how do we handle it? So how are we going to come up with a solution? I think this member had to be more specific, if the law was to specify the procedure for determining these objects that the president would use, so we wouldn't actually be in a situation where we had these dilemmas. It's obvious there could be a case like that. It was, for example, in the last term of office that we have one political option that exercises power at the level of the government and another at the level of the President of the Republic. Such problems may, therefore, arise and should have been more precisely defined in this preceding article so as not to remain these concerns later in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12013	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. I'm sorry. According to this amendment, MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12014	In order to avoid confusion, at first I would say that we, MPs of the SPS, generally think that the president absolutely should have an object in which he works, that he should have a residence in which he lives, that members of his family should be in residence, that they should live together with him, but we also think that the logical question asked by one of the colleagues who spoke before this amendment and that it would be good for the minister, if he is really able, to answer two simple questions. What does everything mean by household members? Are household members just family members, or is that perhaps a broader term, which includes a wider circle of faces? Question number two, Minister, if you're able, it would be interesting to hear. Residential space, protocol facilities, residence facilities in both the country and abroad are mentioned. I suppose it would be logical for the President of the Republic to go abroad, that what the country's assets are abroad, diplomatic and consular representations, be absolutely available to him. Are you thinking about these objects or other objects? Do you have any idea what objects and what number of objects they're talking about? I'm not asking by accident. We will come to the next member of the law, which speaks of the resources available to the President of the Republic. According to the bill, funding funds, for the performance of the president's affairs, the president proposes. Since these are state facilities, I assume the government has provided funds in another part of the budget for the functioning of these facilities and I know that the state is taking care of it. One logical question arises: what kind of objects are they, and how many objects are they? In some years ago, we had the opportunity to hear about this villa at Bora as the facility where President Milosevic was staying, mentioned Karadjordjevo, but objectively outside the reach of the public, there remained information on whether there were other facilities available to the President of the Republic. In fact, is it possible to make such a kind of information public, given the character of the information, since I see that the Government has been very rigid in response to the explanation of why this amendment is not accepted: 'It is necessary for the President of the Republic to provide residence space, protocol facilities and facilities for both country and abroad'. I agree with that, but I think it would be good if, in addition to this story about the member of the law and the amendment of counterpart Sarovic, if possible, we heard from the minister the answer to these two questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12015	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12016	Well, yeah, you only meant Sloba President, so when he was, you were all cursing. But it's not true. Every president has his own rules of conduct. And each one has a military cabinet, Dobanovci, Karadjordjevo, Vrnjačka Banja, Tara, Topcider, Federation Palace, Old Court, residence in Užička. That's what your president's using, too. Just so you don't think there are innocent presidents. For us from the Socialist Party, it is not acceptable to take Article 7. The draft law on the President of the Republic says: "The funds for the work of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the President of the Republic". On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment that deletes the decimal behind "Serbia" and "on the proposal of the President of the Republic" because we believe that there are no other nine and a half thousand budgetary users "do not co-join", according to one series, their own budget. The President of the Republic, first of all, should not be humiliated – I say this quite seriously – and that in any way he proposes the amount of budgets, and that he risks not being accepted by the Government and the National Assembly. In addition, the President of the Republic must share the fate of other budgetary users, on the basis of the measure of economic and fiscal policy over one year, so on the basis of the increase in budgets, proportionately, unless there are some specific reasons, increased or reduced budgets of the President of the Republic. The government, the finance minister on behalf of the government, as well as all the other nine and a half thousand budget users, proposes this appraisal, which is otherwise not large. So, 180 and a few million, in the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year, are all positions of the President of the Republic, with no security costs in these positions, the cost of the protocol -- it is financed from elsewhere, but also from the budget. It doesn't matter to us, because the budget works more or less on sources, not on items, as in the principle of combined containers. So the President of the Republic doesn't have to deal with this. The President of the Republic shouldn't even be dealing with the National Office. You will see, with the 2008 draft budget law, we have suggested that the reduction of funds to the President of the Republic for the projected amount of expenditure of the National Office, since you cannot find anywhere in the budget what is the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, or in the context of what is the National Office, except for the explanation of the budget that 32 people serve the National Office. That's all it has to do with the People's Office. So we understand that this office was made at a time when Mr. Gilas, Shaper and others felt it was a fine position to create one, as far as we are concerned, a para-state organization, which is steaming the government, which is partner to the government, which is doing some political promotions, which is doing a particular campaign on certain issues on the ground, but it was a period of cohabitation. You're now in a coalition with those you cohabitated with. Therefore, there is no reason for the People's Office to exist. Let's go back to the amendment itself. For us, it would be enough for Article 7 to read: The funds for the work of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And there's the point. There is no reason for more, because the President of the Republic may have certain requirements that may sometimes not be served, so there may be a major problem. The President of the Republic, therefore, must share the fate of budgetary and fiscal policy, he must share the fate of all budgetary users, unless there are specific and justifiable reasons for this, and the government will certainly assess the reasons for this, and will propose it itself. In that sense, we ask for support for this amendment. This has nothing to do with the president's personality. We're talking about the president's institution, whoever it is. He doesn't have to deal with money. The President of the Republic should not deal with finance, but rather with those who normally deal with finance for all budget users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12017	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, and then by you, Mrs Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12018	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I urge you once again to take advantage of the opportunity, come out for the pay phone and say, "I accept the amendment." You'll make it easy for everyone. Again for the public, let me tell you what this is all about, so the public can understand what we're talking about here. Article 7. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic has the title "The funds for the work of the President of the Republic" and says, "The funds for the work of the President of the Republic and the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the President of the Republic". On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, counterpart Rajko Baralic suggested that the words "on a proposal from the President of the Republic" be deleted and that the following formulation remain: The funds for the work of the President of the Republic and the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's quite enough. Here's why. Coliar Baralić explained this from one angle earlier, and I will make sure that from another angle, through a few questions that I will ask the minister, in fact, simply clarify this whole situation. And I'm sure we'll convince the minister that this amendment should be accepted. What does "the President of the Republic" mean? Mr. Minister, does this law clash with the Budgetary System Act, as a system law that regulates the budget system in general? When I say the budget system, I mean both the Serbian state budget and the local government budgets, social security funds, completely all of Serbia's budgets. The system law, the Budgetary System Act, says that by September 1st, all direct beneficiaries of the budget – and the institution of the President of the Republic is the direct beneficiary of the budget – are delivering their proposals to the Minister. So, everyone delivers proposals, including the President of the Republic, or the institution of the President of the Republic, I don't know who on his behalf. Well, if you remember, in the Law of the Budget System, it is further on the calendar that the minister proposes to the government on the basis of these proposals, and the government determines the draft budget, i.e. the budget law. It further says that the government, again on the basis of a proposal from all direct beneficiaries of the budget, and the President of the Republic, on the basis of agreed opinions, adopts the proposal, or sets out a draft budget law and delivers it to the National Assembly for adoption. Although, Mr. Minister, that's where he says by November 1st. This government has been working late ever since it was formed. It starts with all these laws that we are talking about, as well as when it comes to the budget – instead of November 1st, it delivers it on November 15th. This is all I wanted to mention, and I have no intention of talking about how the government doesn't respect the law right now. It's not the only law that the government doesn't respect, it has a bunch of these laws. However, the President of the Assembly helps a little bit, according to the system "Give, whenever you give, these laws, it doesn't matter, you can be late for five or six months, we will introduce the regime here in the National Assembly, it will be done day and night, and we will make up for everything you haven't done in time." So it wasn't my idea to criticise the government not to respect the law, but to talk about one procedure for the adoption of the budget law. Now I ask you what this formula means "on a proposal from the President of the Assembly"? If it's an integral part of this budgeting procedure, then it's completely excessive. This would make sense if the institution of the President of the Republic had its own special budget, and then he proposed it directly. Since you say in your explanation that the President of the Republic, as an independent, has the right to propose, we are telling you that there is a vasda here and independent and addictive – all are dependent on the leader of the ruling coalition – but they have the right to propose. So, what was your essence when you put 'on the motion of the President of the Republic'? Do the funds for the work of the National Assembly be provided on a proposal from the National Assembly? Well, on a proposal from the National Assembly, the minister there cuts off, depending on which party he's from. If he's from another party compared to the President of the Republic, he'll cut more. If it comes from the same party, then the President of the Republic's budget will be able to get through both the People's Offices and everything else, even though we all know, the public knows that in fact, the National Office was an agitprop of the Democratic Party. What was the purpose of this? I repeat once again: we believe, and we are safe, and I hope that we have shown the Minister that, if the budget system is respected, he is a direct beneficiary of the budget like everyone else and that this is excessive. And if the President of the Republic has a special budget, as an independent institution, it's something else. And he's gone. Mr. Minister, the best solution is, so you don't make a mistake, if the ministers chop up what the President of the Republic says, take this amendment nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12019	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12020	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic to article 7 is a good amendment and the SRS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this amendment on the day of the vote. I would like to remind you that this amendment concerns the resources for the work of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, which are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and it is good that counterpart Baralic has proposed to delete this 'on the proposal of the President of the Republic'. In a situation where we have so many strikes from the beneficiaries of the budget, when union representatives cannot agree with the government to raise salaries to educators, to raise salaries to employees in the authorities of the administration, we leave the President of the Republic with the law the possibility that he himself proposes how much money he needs. That's not acceptable. Perhaps in some better times, in some richer Serbia, in this moment – certainly not. Of course, we do not think that the President of the Republic should not be provided with adequate resources, to be limited in the sense that it cannot function normally, we do not think it should have a solid profit etc. It's all indisputable, but it conflicts with common sense - that of all budget users only the President of the Republic has the opportunity to say: give me so much. I just don't agree with my colleague Baralic. He said his amendment should be accepted because it is unacceptable that the president of the ring be asked not to know how much money, so the Parliament or the government does not accept it, so we are bringing the president into an awkward situation. These are not the motives for which we will vote for your amendment, colleague Baralic. On the contrary, the president of the state should, like all state officials, share the fate of his people both in good and bad situations. If the president's cabinet employees have the same salaries as the assembly or ministries in the Republic of Serbia, they are disastrously low earnings. I don't know what the salary is, let's say, the President's driver, but the driver's salary in the Assembly and in the ministries, depending on the job, is from sixteen to twenty thousand dinars. I don't think it's acceptable for me to compare, of course, the president to the jobs I've been talking about -- but it's unacceptable, especially when you from the government don't have the right explanation for what it is. What did you write to your colleague Rajko Baralic, why don't you accept his amendment? "Amendment is not accepted. The President of the Republic, as an independent and independent body, must have the right to propose the amount of funds necessary for his work and the work of the General Secretariat'. In an explanation why you don't accept the amendment, you say, "That's because the president has to." But that's not an argument, Mr. Milan Markovic. If you have any argument, you have to tell us what you think it has to do. You already said in the bill that the president himself determines how much money he needs. You say he has to. And we still don't understand why he has to, because we don't think he has to, but that he doesn't need it at all. Does this mean that when you proposed to the budget, you asked Mrs. Vida Petrovic Shkero, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, (because the courts also had independent authorities as well as the president, as you said) how much money she needed for the judiciary in Serbia and gave her as much as she said? If that's the case, did the Minister of Education, your colleague, in order to prevent the edifice strike, to keep their students from teaching normal classes, say, "I need so much and so much money?" Did he get that kind of money if he even asked for it? Of course not. If I didn't keep counting, I could count all the examples you want. Did you ask the pensioners how long it took them to raise their pensions so they could live decently? You didn't ask them. You determine as much as you want. There really is no valid reason. Why exactly the President of the Republic and why right now? For the third time today, I am saying: this is a bill on the President of the Republic, not a bill on Boris Tadic. If the amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic is not accepted, then you only confirm that this is a law for Boris Tadic and that he should now take as much as he needs for the election campaign – the more he asks, you will give him, so that he can, in addition to the regular funds he receives, and the funds he uses for the election campaign. This is unacceptable, whoever the president is. Now, openly, we Serbian radicals suspect that this is intended for the election campaign of Boris Tadic – then he will be able to say how much he wants, that you will propose it as a government, and that the Assembly will accept it. And if that's not the case, we think something like this is unacceptable. The president can't have this privilege. The president should have certain privileges, but this privilege, that he be the one to say "take, Shemso, how pleased you are with the state budget from the citizens of Serbia"—this cannot be acceptable from the aspect of the SRS. So we'll vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12021	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Zarko Obradovic, then the minister. You have three minutes left for your parliamentary group, Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12022	Thank you, Mr. President. To us in the SPS, this amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic is absolutely meaningful and should have been accepted. It is quite logical that when the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines the draft budget, it also establishes the means necessary to function as President of the Republic, that is to say, the exercise of all the powers established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We do not see any particular reason why the President of the Republic himself determines for himself the possible amount of funds. We don't think that's necessary. If the Government can already provide different types of facilities to perform the functions of the President of the Republic of Serbia and all the other things it needs to do its job properly, then we think that the Government will not - should not - in one normal country, and yet I hope that we are a normal country - wage war with the President by providing him with less money to do the job of the President of the Republic. Perhaps the secret of this formulation is hidden in something else - or the President doesn't trust the Government or has the need to propose the funds himself to perform some other actions. I must say, for us, members of the SPS, this argument of the government is not acceptable, but we understand why she gave it. I'll try to explain it. In light of the proposal for this law, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic was founded in 1998 and has functioned since then, and in 2004, the National Office was formed in 2004. I don't happen to mention the people's office. We have seen that the funds provided for the functioning of the National Office cannot be seen at all in the structure of the budget provided to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You can see the number of employees, 32 people, but you can't see the amount of resources to function in the National Office. I'm not saying this by accident. The National Office shall be formed on the basis of Article 83 point 11. The Constitution. Please, if you are able, just listen to the explanation for the formation of the National Office, and then you will understand why this kind of money is needed, that is, the President's ability to determine his own budget proposal. He says: "The National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the National Office) is educated to carry out operational, professional, analytical and advisory affairs in order to establish direct two-way communication between the President of the Republic of Serbia and citizens;" – the poor president, does not see citizens, so he needs the Office, to give him the opportunity to meet with citizens and that there is this two-way communication – "co-operation with state bodies, services, institutions, associations and organisations... "Well, believe it or not -- "gathering and stimulating initiatives" -- be careful: stimulating the initiative – so they need money, they need the Office to stimulate citizens' initiative; they simply do not experience the way they should, so they need to be stimulated to have an initiative towards the president, that he can do his job – "stimulating initiatives, proposals and projects; helping to solve citizens' problems;" – and then formulation, believe it or not – "watching the expectations and attitudes of citizens" – see if I have read well, I did – 'and on this basis formulating priorities, approaching the institution of the President of the Republic of Serbia... ''This Article 1. Decisions on the education of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia show how far the President of the Republic, unfortunately, may have been from the citizens and from the reality in 2004. I hope that this situation has changed because, then, the formation of this National Office had no other meaning until the promotion of the party's policy, which that President of the Republic of Serbia was leading at that time -- simply, that office was turned into a party service. I have no intention of talking about the party and politics, but I am talking about the resources that are being spent, which are formal for the needs of the president. I'm sorry, please, what's standing here about the People's Office doesn't make sense, because there's a secretary general who's probably here to secure that part of the job so the president can exercise his jurisdiction. These formulations we've heard have some completely different meaning and have nothing to do with its competences. We think that fellow counterpart Rajko Baralic's amendment is absolutely meaningful and we do not believe that the government can allow itself not to anticipate in the Republic of Serbia's budget funds that the President of the Republic can exercise its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12023	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12024	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 paragraph 1 of the President's Law and, too, a proposal to delete Article 2 of this article. In order to know what this is about, I will say that Article 8 says: "The President of the Republic and the members of his household are provided by the police, the Serbian Army and other authorities in accordance with the need of the President of the Republic and the government regulation." Article 2 says, "The regulation adopted by the Government can set out other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic." First of all, I have an objection, as we already had in one previous member, that it is necessary, when it comes to the household of the President of the Republic, to make it clear, in accordance with the Family Law, that it is a family household. I repeat again, whenever it comes to someone's household, whether it's about privileges, rights or obligations, it's always about family households. The President of the Republic has no right to differ from other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And yet, in its explanation of why it does not accept the amendment, the government has not written why it does not accept this part of the amendment insisting on the family household of the President of the Republic. This is about the security of the President of the Republic. Normally, the President of the Republic should have security, but not this way (I'll talk about it a little later). If by law you provide that security is entitled and members of his household – my people, do you understand how wide the concept is, who in the environment of the president has the right to be guarded by Cobra, Gendarmeria and I don't know which other authorities. Here you are predicting that the president and his broad undefined household, "secured by the police, the Serbian Army and other bodies in line with the needs of the President of the Republic and the government regulation". We also asked you in principle, first of all, what other organs are. Besides the military and the police, what are the other authorities that provide the president and a large number of members of his household? And why is the Serbian Army providing the president, according to the bill? – that we also asked in the principle debate. I remind you, gentlemen of DOS, what you talked about until 2000 about the police state of Serbia and the security of this or that, and then, believe me, no one, or almost no one, went, at least none of the ministers went with security. The president, for these terms, had a very, very modest security detail. The Prime Minister, too. And you now have security, Malten, for every official in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's really unacceptable. If that's what you've achieved after the five-octobaric coup, then it's really beneath each level and below the honor of every citizen of Serbia. Why are the citizens of Serbia safe enough if they are being guarded by our police, and I am convinced that they are, and the President of the Republic is not safe enough if it is being guarded by our police, but is also needed by the Serbian Army? You have only reduced Serbia's army to the security of those most important figures in the state of Serbia. As things now stand, along with the good communication of Sutanovac, as minister of military, and the president of Serbia, being an army, it will be in the security of the president and his large environment. We still don't have an answer. Obviously, we won't even get an answer to the question of what this household means. I'm going to ask you again whether this means that the army of Serbia and the police, and especially other bodies, and we don't know what other organs are, will provide all those who help and who take care of the President's residence? Does this mean that even the president's friends, not to say some rougher expression, friends, etc., will everyone have security to pay for the citizens of this country? It is particularly unacceptable to us that what you have predicted is that the regulation passed by the Government can identify other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic. What other faces? - You haven't explained it to us, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You said that the amendment would not be accepted and that the government regulation would set out persons who have the right to security as well as the President of the Republic (his associates, members of foreign and domestic delegations staying with the President of the Republic, etc.).). This argument really isn't worth anything. With these reasons, someone has already told you today, the government of the Republic of Serbia is insulting the intelligence and the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia. The same thing you wrote as Article 8 in Section 2, you also wrote as an explanation for why you do not accept the amendment to delete this. Who are the president's associates who will be defined by some special government act as persons to be provided with special security by police, the Serbian Army and other bodies? If you have already said in the first position that the President of the Republic and the members of its household are being provided by police, the Serbian Army and other authorities in accordance with the needs of the Prime Minister and the government, why now this regulation and what will the Government prescribe, or what persons will be designated as persons to whom special protection by the military and police will be provided? When we just commented on the amendment to Article 7, whether or not the president should be allowed to ask for how much money he needs, then the explanation was that the president was independent and independent. And when it comes to determining who needs to be guarded by the military and police, then it is not independent and independent, then the government of the Republic of Serbia will help it, then the government of the Republic of Serbia, by its regulation, will determine which persons they are. A flat-rate and abstract provision like this simply can't survive. I'm really sorry the minister came out. He obviously has no intention or desire to discuss amendments with MPs. It is just a confirmation of what Mr Tomislav Nikolic told him today, that he probably doesn't even know what it says in this law, that this law was written by Zoran Balinovac, that the reasons for not accepting the amendments of the MPs were written by Zoran Balinovac, and therefore the minister has neither the will nor the desire to engage in such a debate. I asked him earlier to tell us why the government did not accept the previous amendment, where we insisted that, with the words "domestics of the President of the Republic" it was written that it was the family household of the president. In this Article 8, we have the same remark. Again, we don't have a reason for the government why it can't be accepted, and it's really very symptomatic of us. We have heard here today certain objections to the behaviour of the President of Parliament, in terms of travel, some advisers, security, etc. We don't know if that's true, we're waiting for an answer, as the president told us. Imagine then what will happen to the President of the Republic, which he will lead to a state cost. Of course the President of the Republic should have a certain team, some people should travel with him, it is not disputed, but all of this must be within some normal limits and, most importantly, within the limits of a strictly defined law. If you will not accept the amendment that this is only about the family household of the President of the Republic, then write down and vote that special security, by the Serbian Army, police and other authorities, will, in accordance with the needs of the president, have, in addition to the president, his narrow family, his extended family, his mistress, his married and out-of-marriage children, his security in seven circles, his 27 advisors, his heads of the national offices... So, we don't mind, write down what you think is your position, that the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and vote that, pass such a law. We've told you, whatever law you pass, whether it's a law on the President of the Republic or any other law, we'll put objections to the moment until the law is passed. From the moment it is adopted and entered into force, we will absolutely respect every law until another moment, when we are able to change it. That's why we ask you not to leave unscheduled provisions, but to make it clear and loud that the citizens of Serbia know who you, along with the president, want to protect. I repeat, this law was freely called – a bill on Boris Tadic, and we want this parliament to pass a law on the President of the Republic. Whoever is President of the Republic will have to comply with the provisions of this law. We think it's inadmissible that, not only this one but any law, it's inconclusive, it's not concrete, norms are not concise, clear. From what you've predicted in Article 8 you can see that everything is exactly the same. So no precision, no concise legal norm, no concrete legal norm. It's left for a broad interpretation, the worst is that you don't know who. Whether the president will be the one who informs you every morning who needs another Cobra unit, how much more the police need, how many more armies he needs, whether it will be regulated by some government regulation, because the government will determine who the other persons who have the right to the same security are, imagine -- the same security as the president. My people, this is really too much. I'm sorry, I repeat, that the minister is not here, that he's trying to get involved finally in this work, because he's actually totally unnecessary sitting here while we're talking about this law, because it's obvious that he really has no idea what this law says. Now I call on him, it's not too late to engage, we've just arrived at the amendment to Article 8. I call upon him to engage in the work of this law. Let him call Zoran Balinovac, tell him what Balinovac had in mind when he wrote this, if you don't want to bring Balinovac into this room, although, by law, you have the right to do so. But, well, that's your thing. Then at least we insist that the minister sitting here be the man we can talk to. He now, I think, doesn't even know whether we're talking about the law on the election of the president or the law on the president – he's so deep and he's so interested in what we're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12025	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe Mrs. Verica Radeta was right to amend the 8th of this law. I'd like to point out first, the minister's not here, but I have the impression that he really has a sociology problem. This law uses the word "domestic" all the time. Households aren't the same as family. Household is an economic community. If you look at statistics, who can be a member of the household, they can be people who share costs, live together, share electricity and electricity. The household is made up of other people, maids, housewives, and it has nothing to do with family. I had a chance to hear last night when he was talking about "Poligraph" about another member, which I'm also going to talk about, that he thinks some sociological concepts are irrelevant when it comes to determining legal terms and protection, in this case of household. When a household member is said, he doesn't have to be a family member at all. They can be really servants, gardeners, stablemen and whatever you want. And also, if you say family, you really have to say who family members are -- that could be some kind of family group, aunts, grandmothers, aunts, aunts, aunts... Do they also enjoy protection if they find themselves in that household? Please, I just want to make an analogy. We almost had the Asylum Act, and when we talked about who could get asylum under a certain procedure, then the very restrictively defined family members. So -- father, mother, children, adopted children. A very narrow notion of family there we had a chance to see. So, the problem comes from here that this is about the security of members of his household, and you don't even know who can be a member of that household. And why would state resources be spent on some household members? And it all costs, you know, and it goes out of the budget. Secondly, it is truly completely incomprehensible that they stand by this member, that the government's rules can determine other persons who can be entitled to the same security as the president. Please, Mr. Minister, since you've already entered the O.R., is there any idea that these other persons may have the same security as the President of the Republic? And what are these discretionary powers of the government, that she prescribes those other persons? You had to specify which faces it could be. And if it were the president's close associates, it must be indicated here. But again I ask the question: and if it were his associates, how can they have the same security as the President of the Republic? The military, the police and those other authorities provide those faces. When you look at the explanation you gave, it is said that within 90 days it will be explained and the matter will be arranged, but, again, next to this unsuspecting household – I have instructed you, even though you were a lawyer and you had to take sociology and know that the household with the family has nothing to do with it – there are also these other faces. How can other persons, some discretionary law of the government and those members of the household, have the same security as the President of the Republic? And these faces are really a real mystery. I ask you to explain it to us because it really doesn't make sense, it applies to the costs of the citizens, to provide some unbulkable faces, and we really don't know what kind of faces can be done at all and what discretionary rights the government can do. What does that have to do with the president? Explain to me the discretionary right of the Government to appoint these other persons and what that has to do with the President of the Republic. Please come out and explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12027	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12028	Thank you. I must say, honestly, I expected the minister to come out and part of the answer to what Mrs Radet and Mrs Pesic asked. Then we would only discuss the second part of this article of the law or the part of the amendment. I am not saying this by chance, because my colleague Rajko Baralic has also submitted an amendment to this article, we will discuss it later, but he agrees in one part with what counterpart Radeta has proposed, to delete the position of the 2nd member of the law. But I have to say, we socialists are really interested in the content of this concept of "domestic." I asked the minister about it 10-15 minutes ago, and he felt heroicly, but we expect that during the night, and he'll probably be in a position tomorrow to tell us more about what's really meant by this concept. Otherwise, as far as we're concerned, we absolutely think the president should have security and police and military, as well as other services. I asked my colleagues who understand this matter better than I do what could include that term "other services," and there are my, let me say, rational reasons. The term "domestic" should be explained in order to know what categories of persons will also be tangled by these provisions of the president's law. I think the amendment that is proposed to delete Section 2 is completely meaningful. We really don't see any reason why Article 8 says, "The government's regulation can determine other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic." If you're referring to the heads of foreign states that will come to the President of the Republic, then it would be logical to hear that. If you're referring to the presidents of the government who will come to the President of the Republic, it would be good to hear that. If it's a third party, we'd better hear it. Now, this formulation is very, very wide. I have to be honest that I haven't really been interested in who could be the subject of the state's care, or protection in that security sense, but here's what we heard tonight is a specific question and a response from the president of the Assembly that the Ministry of the Interior is providing state officials, and that makes perfect sense to me. But based on experience from these years ago, it's good to hear what faces they are. For those uninformed and those who were not there in 2003, at a time of emergency, I certainly know, I can't tell everyone, but one number of DOS deputies had personal security. The DOS MP had a personal security detail in the image of the police officer who was guarding him. It would be logical, to say, conditionally, to protect the opposition at a time of emergency, given that she was exposed to unprecedented media and physical violence, arrested and imprisoned, and was released without explanation after a few months. But, interestingly enough, some DOS deputies had their own personal security. No one in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ever provided an explanation for what motives these people were to protect themselves. At the time of their parliamentary duties, some came with more security than the resolution ministers brought, let me say, members of the Security Service who cared for their safety. So there's a wide range of people who can be covered by that assessment that it's the subject of protection. It would be good to hear from the minister why this provision of article 8 is really here and to whom it applies. I think it would be good for our MPs, too, if we didn't ask any questions in the debate in the future, if we got answers, of course there's no reason to ask them. It would also be good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to simply hear what taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia spend money on. Because everyone insists that citizens should know all the contents of the work of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. One of the most important institutions is certainly the President of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good for the minister to hear the answers to these questions we asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12029	Thank you. The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12030	So, it seems to me, at least I remember when I was studying family law, I don't know if it was the subject of sociology, but also later, when I came across some legal texts, that we have the usual term "family household" for people living in the same apartment and have a common income, or they spend money together. And that's about the definition of household. Is it necessary for the word 'family' to stand before that, I may not be competent enough to answer, but I think that when we say 'homehold', we think of the same thing as when we say 'family household'. I guess that's where we agree. In any case, it would not be a problem to accept the amendments, but one and the other amendments that enter the word "family" are related to some other amendment in those members. The amendment, Mr. Sarovic said, in Article 5(2), the word "family" is added after the word "his" and the words "in the country and abroad" are deleted. It is unacceptable to delete "in the country and abroad" because it refers to facilities located both in the country and abroad, and while I am at it, this is where the government is mentioned to provide it. The reason for that is very clear. It can't be a question of protocol. The issue of staying as President of the Republic is, among other things, a security issue, and a very important issue. And that is why the government always participates in the organisation and security of these facilities, i.e. in the overall process. So it's not just a matter of protocol. where he'll be when he goes abroad. And you know that within the framework of the government, special organizations, or bodies within the ministry, also function as security and intelligence agencies. And in this second amendment, therefore, again, the Radeta People's MP says: after the word "his" the word "family" is added, but also says: Section 2 is deleted. So none of these amendments are directly to the question of adding the words "family" in front of the words "domestic", but they are amendments that change those members. So, if there was simply this individual amendment, I suppose it wouldn't be slow for the government to accept it. But we cannot accept that position 2 is deleted because indeed there are a number of persons who allow the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, and this is quite clear, given that the President of the Republic is an incoherent body, and otherwise there would be no advisers, nor the General Secretariat, etc. It is normal for certain people to have certain responsibilities, and very often these responsibilities are related to that part of his responsibilities regarding the defence and security of the country, and the need for those persons to enjoy adequate security in certain situations and over a certain period of time may arise. And it makes sense for the government to decide that. I say again to the government, for the simple reason that they are within the government, as the authorities of the administration or as a member of the ministry or special organisations, and those of the authorities involved in intelligence or security work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12031	Thank you. Replica, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and then the Messenger of the people, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12032	Thank you. First help to the minister. If you really want to adopt at least this part of the amendment to both Article 5 and Article 8 relating to the particularisation of the family household, you know well that you have such a possibility, that the parent committee is scheduled for tomorrow and, if you will, you can do so. Don't take it out on something that doesn't make sense. On the other hand, you said the government had to worry about the president's safety when he's abroad. Of course, to be clear, the president should be provided, as should be safe and secure for every citizen in Serbia. You say the government organizes security for the president when he's abroad. In an explanation why you do not accept the amendment that I have submitted to Article 8 to delete Article 2 you say that the Government determines which persons will be provided as well as the President, and you state, among other things, members of foreign and domestic delegations who are staying with the President of the Republic. So those who come to us – we provide, and our president when he goes there – again we provide. There's something illogical about it. You tried to explain something to us, but it really didn't work, Mr. Minister. I accept that we provide here representatives of official delegations, presidents of states, governments, etc. who come to the President of the Republic, that our government, or the competent ministry, should organise that security. I accept that, but why, when our president goes there, doesn't she do the same thing to the government that's leaving? Why do we provide both here and there, and they don't provide us there or here? It's just not a good explanation. You tried to convince us, but at least as far as we're concerned, you didn't. First, because you won't accept the family household, because if you will, there is a business possibility, and secondly, it's totally unserious this argument that keeps the president here, who keeps him there, or those where he goes, and those who come here. You didn't get along well, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12033	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Misa Petronijevic. Mr. Petronievich, I apologize, only the minister first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12034	Mrs. Radeta, I understood well, but you didn't understand. So, I tried not to take too much time to answer the part where Mr. Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment to Article 5, so in his amendment, he practically tried to intervene on two things. One question is the household, the word "family" in front, and the other is the issue of residential facilities. Now, in the debate, the question arises why is the Government the one who provides it. I tried to explain to you that it is the government that provides for the movement and stay of the president because it is connected to certain security issues. You say it's not like that, and I say it is. What to do, we have different knowledge of it or we think differently about it. I mean what I told you. This amendment of yours refers to something else, which is a matter of security, or security protection of people who help the president carry out his duties. My view is that it is perfectly logical and normal for people who help the president carry out his duties, especially those relating to the country's defence and security, to be able to come to an appropriate security risk in certain situations, and therefore it is important that the government provides for adequate security by means of its act. I really don't know why it's such a problem and why it's such a controversial thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12035	The word is Milisav Petronijevic, and then the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, let's get something straight first. You went out for a pay phone and said that the "family household" formula was better or that we convinced you or convinced you that it was better than the "domestic" wording was offered. If you really think so, and you are bothered by this second part of the amendment, show it by tomorrow, you have the right to do so, as a representative of the government on the board, to propose only such an amendment. This would prove that you really respect this debate and that it is, in fact, extremely poly, but useful, because it certainly needs to be possible to pass, not any, but a good law on the President of the Republic. I want to return you to what Ms. Vervain Radeta said in her presentation, that it was not a good explanation that was received from the government. I just want to add, Mrs. Radeta, that not that it's not a good explanation, but you didn't get an explanation at all. Please, see how the Government, in its established way of working, says, "Amendment is not accepted." Then he doesn't say why the amendment isn't accepted, but he says, "The government decree will set out persons who have the right to security as well as the President of the Republic... 'Mr. Minister, you haven't answered this amendment at all. You tried something here for a pay phone to explain, but this isn't an explanation. Your only answer is, as it stands here, that the amendment is not accepted and the point. I just want to remind you of two or three things, which is the SPS attitude and the SPS parliamentary group, and let's be clear about that. Mr. Minister, regarding Article 8 of the Law, which speaks of the security of the President of the Republic, we want to point to something that is normal and logical and something that is not. 'The President of the Republic and the members of his household' - we mean more precisely family households, not anyone, all possible aunts, aunts, aunts and others who, behold, live by accident on a farm, live by accident on a move there, we don't think they should have police, military and other organs. What do I mean? The President of the Republic is an institution, and he must have the strongest possible security, and the police, and the military -- I don't understand until the end what this "other authorities" means, but if they are in the function of security, and ours are, domestically, not foreign intelligence services, then we don't have any dilemmas -- should have absolutely the strongest possible security because it's an institution in Serbia. When we talk about the security of the president of the Republic, we mean the institution, not Tadic. For Tadic, we don't think he should be president of the Republic at all. The President of the Republic should have absolute security, but please, here with the law on the President of the Republic, you determine the President's right to security on this scale, and you empower the Government to bring for everyone else, not security, but security as well as the President of the Republic. So you didn't give government authority here to provide someone, to prescribe that they had security, you said -- just like the President of the Republic. So the police and the army and everything. We'll be in a situation where the military, in fact, will only be involved in providing state officials, various advisors, etc. It's not the essence of this provision of law. It is essential that the President of the Republic and, logically and normally, give his family household members absolute security. And it's not for playing, it's serious questions, serious things. You've put it as a member of the law, which is good, but you've also, which is bad, put it in the position of the 2nd provision to empower the government that whoever it is that it should be assessed to pass a regulation providing the same security as the President of the Republic, so not security, but the same as the President of the Republic – means police, military, etc. I suppose you've had the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to make sure that we really got into the essence of things and that we're literally holding on to every detail for one purpose only – to assure you that the law on the President of the Republic needs to be passed, that this is not a good law and that it takes much repair to make sense and that it could carry out its function. So, I ask you once again – you will later have the amendment of Mr Rajko Baralić, who talks only about eradicating Article 2 – you did not specify exactly what the essence of this Article 2. In this way, it can be interpreted that we've laid down by law that the President of the Republic has security, and, behold, we're empowering the Government to, for whoever it is, have the same level of security as the President of the Republic. No one in the state can have the same level of security as the President of the Republic. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12037	Thank you. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12038	Since the minister has approved himself and hinted at the possibility of accepting some amendments, I just want to help some dilemmas to be resolved, to make a decision easier. I will return to article 5 and Mr. Nemanje Sarovic's amendment. The minister said he would accept the first part of the amendment to insert the word 'family', but that he could not accept this second part where the words ''in the country' were deleted abroad'. I will read this article with the complete amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic, to see what he looks like, and then to compare what is in the proposed article, so you will see that there is no difference. If we accept the full amendment to Nemanje Sarovic, Article 5(2) will read: Residential space, protocol facilities, facilities for the stay of the President of the Republic and members of its family household and the work space of the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic determines after obtaining the consent of the President of the Republic. What changes with the existing solution? There's only one general character in relation to what's given. So nothing will be excluded after these facilities in the country and abroad. He remains in the government again to arrange with his decision where these facilities will exist and how they will be arranged. I don't think there's any interference with this amendment to Article 5 being fully accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12039	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12040	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, indeed, once again express my sympathy with Minister Markovic, who is here in a rather ungrateful position, to defend solutions that are extremely bad, and then, man, in the absence of other arguments, puts into the bill what is not written there. We heard from Minister Markovic that these other persons who will be entitled to security are the same as the President of the Republic, in fact, persons who have something to do with the role of the President of the Republic, so they are persons who allow the President of the Republic to function, that they are the heads of foreign delegations, etc. But, Mr. Minister, that's not what you wrote. The draft law, in the position of Article 8, states: 'The regulation passed by the Government may be determined by other parties who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic'. There is no clause that these faces must have anything to do with the role of the President of the Republic. So, this formulation is to this extent broad, that it can in practice cause a number of doubts, a number of abuses, that an extremely wide circle of faces, which objectively have no fundamental connection with the function of the President of the Republic, can have the same right to security as the President of the Republic. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you that the formulation, written by you or already by anyone who wrote you an explanation why you do not accept Mrs. Verice Radete's amendment, is not identical to the wording in the bill. In fact, Article 8 paragraph 2 states: "The government's regulation can set out other persons... '"And then you say in your explanation, 'the government's regulation will determine the faces... '". So, it says here they can be defined, but they don't have to, and in your explanation, you say they'll be designated persons who have the right to security as well as the President of the Republic. Then you put in brackets: ''(His associates, members of foreign and domestic delegations staying with the President of the Republic, etc.)."'.'. It's a very broad formulation, and I really can't understand what it can mean. Furthermore, in Article 8(1), you say, "The President of the Republic and the members of his household are provided by police, the Serbian Army and other authorities... '". What other authorities can still take into account the fact that they provide for the President of the Republic? You know, the catalogue, or the list of state authorities, is limited. If it's not the police and the military, then let's see, here, there's not a thousand state organs, there's a few. Can the National Assembly provide? And these intelligence services, Mr. Minister, are not outside the existing organs. Mr. Minister, you can see how you're getting into your own mouth. You just explained to us that the ministries are independent bodies, they have nothing to do with the government, etc., and then, to oppose Mrs Verica Radeti, you say: well, you know there are ministries, and there are special organizations, agencies operating within the government, they can also provide the President of the Republic. So, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that the bill is bad, that the government, or the ruling majority, is in a very unpleasant situation. The bill was written by someone else, not you. And then the Minister of State and Local Self-Government liked the role of defending a bill that neither wrote nor seems to understand its essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12041	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12042	Mr. Dulic, when Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is President of the Republic, we will reduce that security ten times if necessary. That'll happen soon enough. Let's not waste the state's money on stupidity. There was less security before, Mr. Resistance, at least ten times. I'm not going to say out of correctness how many people are being provided by the President of the Republic today. I don't want to jeopardize his safety because he's the president of the country I live in. And don't mess with me on that subject, I could tell you all sorts of interesting things. So, the president of your party and our country today provides more people than the entire Sixth Administration and those people who were commanded by Senta. If you want me to tell you about it, I'll give you a chance whenever you want. How you chose those who provided, unfortunately, important faces, were seen with tragic consequences. Because party security cannot be declared State Security. And you can't trust someone with a criminal record - "Burgi" - to watch over the Prime Minister. Now, that's your security detail. And don't push me, because it's not my theme. I submitted an amendment on behalf of the SPS to Article 8. Security of the President of the Republic. I quote and beg you, Mr. President, that this time you're making me understand. "The president of the Republic and members of its household are provided by police, the Serbian Army and other bodies in line with the needs of the president of the Republic and the government regulation. The rules adopted by the Government may also determine other persons entitled to the same security as the President of the Republic. "On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to delete this member. Let's start over. The President of the Republic, under the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, is a member of 17, commander-in-chief of the army. He "determins the use of the Serbian Army and commands Serbia's Army in peace and war". So, he is a person who should have special counterintelligence measures because, according to certain doctrines, above all, when it comes to unit combat preparedness, he believes that the combat parity of the unit that was left without commanders has been reduced by 20 to 75 per cent. We don't want that to happen. It is therefore important that the President of the Republic has that level of counterintelligence that guarantees that his counterintelligence is risk-free. In that sense, we're all in agreement here, I hope no one has any objection to this species. Who's everybody getting? There's one thing that's misspelled here. It's called "in accordance with the needs of the President of the Republic". He doesn't judge the President of the Republic what his need for security is. That is what the competent state authority is concerned about, it is obliged to carry out counterintelligence assessment and therefore propose counterintelligence security measures. All this other stuff could be a question. How many executives, how are they hired, what are all levels of protection...? It's not just physical protection, it's absolute protection. And it is no luck to be President of the Republic – he lives, practically, in house arrest. That's how every president in the world lives. So, members of his family, all those who come to him, etc., are subject to different observations because otherwise it could be concluded that the president is at risk, or could be threatened, from different places and from different faces. Why do I suggest that this position be deleted: "The regulation adopted by the Government can identify other persons who have the right to the same security as the President of the Republic"? We've already said, in the first place, that members of the president's family are entitled to that security. Others are the ones who, for personal, professional, media and other reasons, come in contact with the president. But they can't have the same security as the President of the Republic. That's the point. This is inaccurate. If it remains in the law as proposed, it could produce the obligation of the State to impose one-off costs and to engage too many people. So it's an unsustainable thing in the bill. We're in the middle of it, not whether people who contact the president in one way or another should be provided. Next thing you know, just for a little while, please, "other faces." In a formal sense, beware, "other persons" are also those who work with the president, they can be all those who are in the President's General Secretariat, they are all those who communicate with him in any way or, in a broader sense, with members of his family household. Then who can provide it, as you predicted, in the same way as the president? If this stays as you suggest, it can't be provided by anyone who's seriously involved in this business. The president has the right to every level of protection that every head of state in the world has, but not every person in contact with him. They are, to say in a language that we all understand, under surveillance, and the president is completely isolated, if you understand what I'm talking about. The president of the state is completely isolated. He must at all times be certain that he cannot be threatened, in any way, by his life, by his body, by his household members, by his functions. That's what the old state is for, as well as for everyone else. The sixth administration used to do that for MPs. Those discussed by counterpart Zarko Obradovic, that is, whenever DOS ruled here, so I asked the Security Committee whether we, MPs who are not members of the DOS, were fair or were not threatened by anyone, since everyone else had followers. These people from Cacko, each cop and the official car, come here to the Assembly, stay here all day and come back, as long as it was "Sabbe." So I understood that we were honest, and that's why we didn't need a police escort at the time. Let the Minister accept this amendment or let him accept an amendment of the SRS, which is wider than this, we have no objection. We also think, as Mrs. Vesna Pesic, that the family household is an economic household, and that the family is either a narrow family or whatever, take the Family Law, something that is easier to explain, because it can result in the president of the state having a family of 150 people. He has a family of several members – wife, children, and it is a family, with him living in a residence and that thing is completely clean. Once again, please, our intention has not been in any way to compromise the security or security of the head of state. On the contrary. We just think that what you wrote is not possible to provide and that it does not contribute, but, on the contrary, endangers the security of the President of the Republic. Because when all faces have the same security as the president, then no one's safe. You have to know who's the safest of these. Here, it's in the shortest. And this -- how many people were provided earlier, I can tell you that when you were doing the 1999 and 2000 campaign, you said that Slobodan Milosevic had 100,000 police officers, so you received 30,000, so now there are 50,000. Just so you know how many there were then.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12043	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12044	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SPS, my colleague Rajko Baralic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 2 be held 8. The law on the President of the Republic is deleted. Paragraph 2 reads: "The regulation adopted by the Government can set out other persons entitled to the same security as the President of the Republic." The Government's reply, let me quote: "Amendman is not accepted for the same reasons that no amendments of the People's MPs of the Verita Radeta and Srdjan Shaina are accepted." The problem with this answer is that in response to Radeti and his colleagues, Srdjan Shin, there is no reason why the amendments were not accepted. It's just a quote of attitude 2, whose erasure is proposed. There, so much about the professionality of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the legislator of this law. Here is the essence, dear fellow MPs, of the law that speaks of other persons who have the right to the same security. To be honest, I thought, in an announcement earlier, that this applied to the presidents of the state, the Prime Minister, some person of the same rank or similar rank as the president of the Republic of Serbia. When the minister reported to explain the bill's proposal, he said it could also refer to experts who, around the president, are working with him in the capacity to exercise the powers that the president has and, excuse me, that explanation makes no sense. My colleague Rajko Baralic said well – if they are all provided the same, then someone is at risk, and that someone is the President of the Republic. Not everyone can be as secure as the President of the Republic. I guess it makes sense that the president of the state has the highest level of security, the highest level of security, and everyone else has a lower level. No one can convince me that people who work with the President of the Republic should have the same level of security. If they have the same level of security, then it creates conditions for a lot of holes in that security chain, and it costs a hell of a lot. Because that's what someone needs to pay for, that same level of protection and security that's given to that other person. Is this person, for example, the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia? Given the scope of the affairs he has here and that his task is to encourage and stimulate initiatives, to bring the president closer to citizens, to look at citizens' expectations and attitudes, because all of this is in the function of future elections, then his role is very important, even more important than a person who, by nature of business, should be an aid to the president in the exercise of his responsibilities. Does this also apply to the Director of the National Office, that he has the same level of security as the President of the Republic? counterpart Rajko Baralic mentioned a number of people providing the president of the Republic. Do you understand what this provision of the law means – how this number can then be multiplied and how much can it grow into a single line? Then it is best to form a ministry for the needs of the President of the Republic, one special Ministry of Security of the President of the Republic, and then we will have all these faces. If you take that there are 32 people in the People's Office, and the question is how many presidential advisors there are now fifteen, whoever the president is, the bill doesn't give the exact number of perpetrators, then you come into a situation that, if exactly what the minister said any person who works with the president can get the same level of protection as the president, then we're done. Then we will become definitely the state with the largest number of people who care about the president and that the president can do his job, or there will be an enormous number of people who will have the same level of protection as the president and it goes into one sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-28-0.u12045	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Since it's two o'clock, we stop here. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. I thank you all.
