ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11056	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 135 national MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the People's Messengers to establish the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Elvira Kovac, Marko Djurisic, Odip Sheriffov, Konstantin Samofalov, Vuk Dinčić, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Tot Tamaš, Oliver Dulic, Meso Omerović, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Jovanovic and Goran Bogdanović. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Constitutional Court Law (exist in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly, at yesterday's part of the session, worked in the course of the debate on the amendment of the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, to Article 89. The word is made by MP Svetlana Kitić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11057	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, ministers, is not according to the Rules of Procedure, I think today deserves a few words, as today is November 20th and marks the World Child Day, in memory of the 20th of November 1989, when the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted. This UN Convention was preceded by a Declaration on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1959, as the world's first document exclusively and comprehensively dealing with the rights of the child. The United Nations has singled out children as a special and very sensitive group, which should guarantee protection against all forms of neglect, abuse, cruelty or exploitation, provide them with all rights and equality and give them every possible chance. "Investing in children is an investment in the future," a common slogan of the UN action relating to child popularity is. Today the whole world marks the World Child Day, and Serbia, if we have reason to celebrate, let's ask ourselves. The beginning of the second half of this century, Serbia welcomes as an old nation. It is estimated that older than 65 years will exceed the numerical population of under 15 years. The Serbian population has fewer each year for about 20, and some say 30,000. Of the 161 municipalities in Serbia, a negative natural growth has 155 municipalities. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr. Zarko Obradovic proposed a bill that abolishs VAT on baby equipment and food and said the Serbian government has two ways to resolve this issue, a complete abolition or some reduction of it. The SPS raised the issue at a time when the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic and the answer was that it would be resolved in the next budget. We believed them, but unfortunately, the current minister gave us the same answer. The government has a strategy and can and must find a solution. You didn't even bother to do it here, and you have no attitude at all. If it does, it won't be if it doesn't. Tell the citizens out loud and clear there's nothing there, because the government doesn't want to solve this issue. Public Prime Minister Kostunica has pledged to abolish VAT, and we are now getting the government's opinion not to accept the draft law supplementing the law on child food and clothing, which the SPS has filed. Minister Cvetkovic publicly stated the other day that the removal of VAT does not affect natural growth and that it has shown research. I ask Minister Cvetkovic - How has he come to this and how has that been determined right now? What parameters did he use in this study? Yesterday I said, today I repeat, that the SPS, with all other measures, will continue to propose legal solutions that will improve the conditions of our children's lives. The knife and the cake are in the hands of the government. Let the government explain why many children live on the edge of our misery today. In the end, I remind you, today is the World Child Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11058	Do any of the other MPs report for the amendment to article 89 submitted by MP Vladan Batic? (No) The amendment, which adds the title of the new chapter 9 to Article 90, was submitted by MP Amjad Migati. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11059	We have submitted this amendment to give importance to the separation of natural and legal persons within the general framework of the legal system. Secondly, it's a very interesting response from the government that says... There's no need, Minister, if I may, Minister, explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11060	Here you go, Mr. Migati. You're the only one who's talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11061	You see, I think it's just one way of neglect and arrogance of the government when it just refuses and says there's no need. Otherwise, the separation of local authorities and autonomy of the province is particularly protected in art. 187 and 193. So, the Constitution separates those categories from the general constitutional appeal and the constitutional appeal proceedings. There are two interests here. It's not only about justice. There's a public interest here. When the province or body of self-government is distracted in work, it doesn't just mean that it's a small group of people who don't want to work, it counts a lot of people, and if we were to separate that chapter, then it would be important. There is another political moment that is important and in the Constitution is determined. Why is that parting? In order to let local self-governments and autonomy know that the Constitutional Court, or Constitution, protects them from the central government. As soon as it's a special chapter, it means it has a higher meaning. We should, but we didn't want to get into your concept, to settle for an emergency procedure when the work of autonomy, local self-government, is at stake, because it affects the work of the authorities, and not only as a simple lawsuit brought by an individual, because of justice, but it affects and threatens a large number of residents in one area. That's why we should follow the Constitution and give it meaning, not say there's no need. There is a need, there is a legal need, a political need to give meaning to this particular chapter. It is technically possible not to change your concept but only to make it important that the Constitutional Court particularly looks at such complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11062	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11063	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of course, could have been expected to report to the LDP's MP today according to the Rules of Procedure, and in connection with the man who left the chess after 18 years, he remembered everything he didn't know for the past six years and accused the head of a parliamentary group in this parliament of being guilty of his abduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11064	Mr. Andric, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11065	It's about Miroslav Miskovic, owner of the company Delta. Article 225 and Articles 134, 160 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We ask the question to the president of the National Assembly - why did he refuse to put on the agenda an initiative by our parliamentary group on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the abuses of the Delta Company? We submitted this proposal two weeks ago. We asked for everything we talked about here to discuss through the institutional framework, that is, through the polling committee of the Republic Assembly. Instead, the ruling majority decided to convene a session of the Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism, on which, ignoring what every citizen of this country knows, ignoring the very testimony of the people who have been called, and doing the tasks related to the Commission set up by the Government, ignoring their evidence and their impressions of making threats to them, a voted stand that has completely denied what is our reality. After only three or four days, the position was confirmed by another newspaper editor under the auspices of the regime. We invite you not to continue to ignore what is happening and to put our initiative on the agenda as soon as possible to set up a survey committee to discover the abuses of the company 'Delta'. I remind you that yesterday, Miroslav Miskovic wrote a letter, quoting the texts of his newspaper, the texts he had previously put into the paper and taking these texts as evidence of a serious accusation. Today, the ruling majority in this congregation will show whether he did so on behalf of the ruling majority or did so on his own behalf. We will not allow this session to continue before a decision is made on the establishment of a survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11066	Mr Andric, the President of the Assembly is obliged to provide you with an answer, as soon as possible, on how to put what is put on the agenda, but you too in the Rules of Procedure can read and see for yourself. So, the President of the Assembly did not violate the Rules of Procedure, except that he did not fulfill your will to be a part of the agenda before what, by the Constitutional Law, is in order. As for writing in the press and other things that you want to question the work of the National Assembly, please the competent authorities, the public prosecutor, the police, all available forces, to urgently determine all available facts and respond in due time. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11067	Mr Albianic, Article 104. I'm offended by your response. Article 1 says, "The People's Messengers are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." What you're saying is that we're saying something, that's one thing. Second thing, I'm not happy with your answer. I didn't ask you for business opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11068	I ask him to enter the record that the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be voted on in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11069	Why are you interrupting me? So I didn't ask you to give me what business opportunities the president of the ruling majority in this assembly used to avoid a political decision. I asked you for political reasons why you avoided doing what one opposition party is asking you to do, which is to allow the position of Delta through the institutions of the system, in this case, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Albianic, that's not what the media is talking about. The thing is, citizens pay a lot of what they have to buy at Delta because they don't have someplace else to buy, and the thing is, that's what makes it possible for you, as the ruling majority. It's not about what anyone said about who in the media. So let us go, we will fight Miroslav Miskovic that way. What we are looking for is for this parliament to be made known whether or not this position supports it. If you think that what was the session of the Trade and Tourism Committee was Parliament's statement, we say it wasn't. Let the survey committee be formed, let each party have the same number of representatives and then put to the vote what we claim. Once again, what we claim is not our dreams, Mr. Albianic. We live in this country and we know what's going on, and that's that Mr. Miskovic came out of chess, so he first appeared after 18 years, and 18 years ago he was the vice president of the one-party government, in charge of the economy, after which he retired to the same economy, and then he abused everything that was possible in this country to get rich. Today, he calls himself an attack on the patriotic forces, and protects his position by opening up to him by half of the government's ministers who do not even have a license. We ask that this congregation respond to that. Leave the media alone. What happened yesterday was much more serious than that. The richest man in this country has accused one of your MPs, Mr. Albianic, the head of a parliamentary group, of being guilty of his abduction. We say - that's not true. His answer to our claims, what everyone knows, is that he has a monopoly position and that the monopoly position is being abused. Let the survey committee be formed. Many things were discussed by this congregation on the survey board, and this proved to be a place where, regardless of decision, the truth could be heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11070	You've advertised Article 104. Rules of Procedure, that the chairman of the National Assembly was injured by Article 104. Rules of Procedure, by calling on the competent state authorities to act in accordance with the law. I don't think that's what hurt Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, nor the dignity of the National Assembly. The National Assembly, among other things, needs to take care of the respect and application of the law. Please enter the minutes that the National Assembly on the violation of Article 104 will declare itself in the day of the vote. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11071	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we are here, instead of doing a very serious job, dealing with what we may not be dealing with. Mr. Chairman, instead of calling on the authorities to do their job, he says, "We're gonna ask the police, we're gonna ask the MUP, we're gonna ask the authorities of the judiciary." What are we going to ask them for? Their job is to deal with what needs to be done. I will take advantage of Mr. Justice's presence and remind him of concepts such as: indications, fama, reasonable doubt. Instead of discussing the scandal that Miroslav Miskovic made in the National Assembly, it should be done by judicial authorities and police authorities. This scandalous behavior should have its epilogue in court. Of course, in a schizoid country like Serbia, scandals like this are being found in the National Assembly, not where it is needed and where the law and rules are being imposed. Therefore, unlike Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the LDP Parliamentary Group, I do not ask the competent authorities, but I insist that they finally start doing their job and that the scandal that Mr. Miroslav Miskovic has caused once and for all become the past in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11072	Mr. Rangelovic, you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by not saying which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, first of all. Secondly, you cannot call a state of Serbia for a congregation speaker names that are rude. I'm warning you not to do that. There is a word from MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11073	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 27, violation of the Rules of Procedure in connection with the powers of the President of the Assembly. I really don't understand whether the president of the assembly will chair this assembly in the future, because he is an occasional guest. Its primary obligation is to chair the National Parliament, not sometimes to stop by the National Parliament. It's his first, basic authority and greatest obligation, not his last, secondary, by the way, etc. With this in mind, I demand that Parliament's president put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to set up a survey committee. As a folk MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have no personal conflict with Miroslav Miskovic or the company "Delta" and I try everything to observe phenomenal. But unfortunately, there has been a dispute recently between the company and its owner with government and parliamentary institutions -- the Anti-Corruption Council, the Council for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the Competition Protection Commission. Let's just deal with this commission. Apparently, the Trade Committee held and found that there was no pressure, and the President of the Commission was about to cry, a woman desperate, terrified, confused. There's always pressure on those on top of the commission, but it doesn't even matter. What's important? May I have your attention, please? What's the big deal? It is important that this company does not respect the Commission's decisions. She said she did not grant approval for the concentration of capital "C example", or "Hemslade", companies from Cyprus, and "C market". That, Mr. Albianic, is like you're an MP, and you didn't get the RIK's solution. It can't, but someone, obviously, can. That's why we said there was someone above the law. That is why we have shown a shameful legal interpretation of the Faculty of Law and an even more shameful verdict of the Supreme Court, which is used as evidence even though it was not in the process. That's why we believe that, as far as I've seen in the means of information, since yesterday's New Decision of the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, which prohibits the merger of 'Hemslade' and 'C Market', is the right time to form a survey board. That's what we insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11074	All I ask is that we treat all fellow Members of the people and the President of the National Assembly with respect because the President of the National Assembly, apart from chairing the National Assembly, represents the National Assembly, both in the country and in the whole world. Thank you. The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11075	I'll talk about the article. 27th and 225th. I'm looking again for a notice from the President of the Assembly. Mr. Albianic, you gave us the overture yourself. It is precisely because the president of the National Assembly is not only the person who holds the presidency, but also symbolises the National Assembly, we are asking him to do this because he avoids calling, to put on the agenda the formation of a survey board. It symbolizes the state's attitude towards Delta. That's the problem, Mr. Albianic. Thank you for, at least unconsciously showing you understand the problem. So, what the LDP Parliamentary Group asked for, why it is asking for an answer to the question why it did not appear on the agenda, or as a proposal for a agenda, it is to educate the polling committee - to determine the facts of the abuses of the Delta Company from Belgrade. We asked for one representative, an MP, from each parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to join the survey committee, on a proposal from the parliamentary group itself. The task of the survey committee would be to establish the facts and circumstances regarding the existence and abuse of the monopoly position of the company Delta, the facts and circumstances of the illegal and illegal influence of the company Delta and the Government of Serbia, the fact of the illegal pressure of the company Delta on the government and the assembly institutions, and so on - the Council for the fight against corruption, the Council for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Commission for the Protection of Competition, the facts and circumstances concerning the illegal influence of the Delta company on the media, as well as on judicial authorities. Given that we have seen the absence of this on the agenda as a wish for the majority to avoid talking about these problems, we will use today's debate to inform you of each of these items, most of what we know, wanting once again, and each time, from you to allow us to form a polling committee where these problems would be discussed in the highest institutions of our society, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11076	Thank you, Mr. Andric. I have to tell you that this session of the Assembly is in progress and that now you can't put it on the agenda. But for the next agenda, the National Assembly will declare it. So when it comes in order, how can it be physically? You can't interrupt this session. You're not satisfied. I ask the National Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Andric. There's a word from MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11077	Deme and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Albianic, the member by whom I appear is 226. What you just said didn't get me very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11078	It means that your proposal, the National Assembly, when the next session begins, will be declared - will be put on the agenda or will not be put on the agenda. What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11079	Let's hold your word. I don't see why that wouldn't happen. I don't see why this House wouldn't answer this question. Simply, that question was raised by the LDP. The issue of monopoly is a very important issue for the Republic of Serbia and for Serbian society at the moment, because, in this particular problem, we can find elements, in addition to all the accidents of Serbian citizens living the way they live at the moment, for what my colleague Rangelovic, in your opinion, Mr Albianic, here boldly, and I must support him, characterised our society as schizoid. It's schizoidal and the state we live in is, unfortunately, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11080	Ms. Stankovic, I warn you not to use such terms for the assembly speaker and that you cannot characterize the whole society in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11081	Do you know what the word is - schizoidal, can you explain it to me? If you knew, then you'd know I was right and you wouldn't be making a problem. Indeed, when we characterize Serbian society as such, we can say that there are several reasons why it is currently schizoid. Here, I'll tell you two reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11082	Please, again, I warn you not to use terms that are not suitable for congregation speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11083	What does that mean, they're not suitable?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11084	According to the Rules of Procedure, you have offensive terms that you must not use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11085	Is that what it says in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11086	It says.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11087	It just says the word "chizoid"? Mr. Albianic, I'll tell you two reasons why Serbian society is schizoid. In fact, Serbia is the poorest country in the region. The poorest is because it's isolated, because there's no production in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11088	Miss Stankovic, I must stop your time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11089	Because it suits someone. Who is responsible for Serbia being the poorest and isolated? Well, to those who are fit to hunt in the dim. To those who answer there is no competition, of course, it is the company "Delta" and Mr. Miskovic. On the other hand, as a result of these monopolies, and the isolation and constipation that most in this parliament supports, Serbia is the most expensive, so we are the poorest, which speaks of the quality of life of people living in Serbia. The LDP will always talk about it openly. They will not be ashamed of the qualifications that this society qualify as schizoid, because those who lead it knowingly made it so. You, Mr. Albian, can defend it, so insinuately defend it, and we will always loudly and clearly defend our thesis from this pay phone. The position of people in Serbia is very bad. People live very badly. Last week was about how people live in special-needed centres. Do you think the responsibility for this lies with the ruling majority in the country, which by its policy supports the interests of the richest, so they are the most normal and healthy trying to find a way out...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11090	Miss Stankovic, you're violating the Rules of Procedure. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11091	I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure. Just one more second, please. They're trying to find a way out of this... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11092	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the fourth time today. I ask you to take care of the fact that we are extending the assembly work and that it costs all the citizens of Serbia if we stop working like this. I think it is clear to all of you that you have expressed your position, you should not continue to stop Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11093	I'm asking a 225 for an answer to the question, why isn't there a session of the Committee of Auditors scheduled?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11094	You'll get an answer. You cannot use Article 225 for questions, MPs are the last item of the agenda at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11095	Art. 226 and 225, plus Article 104. First of all, why are we looking for the formation of a survey board? We cited the facts and circumstances regarding the existence and abuse of the monopoly position of Delta. As I said you were avoiding making an appointment for the poll committee, not only by saying about this speaker, but from your behaviour over the past few months, allow me to meet Serbian lawmakers and citizens with several facts. What is our first claim is that the company "Delta" acquired its monopoly position by gaining its wealth during the period of power of Slobodan Milosevic. As evidence of this and, for example, the famous affairs of money laundering from Cyprus, we will provide all MPs of the National Assembly with copies that prove that the Belgrade Bank transferred to the company 'Antex Delta' 2,885,000 German marks, so that the money would then be transferred to the companies ''Hemside', 'Delta Banka a.d.'. We have several of these transactions, if you will, we can count them, 2,885,000, 2,090,000, 4,975,000, 1,293,000, 1,422,000 marks, 2,237.000 marks, 3,233,000 marks, etc., to prove that this money was transferred later to Hemislaid. We'll remind you that Hemslad is behind Primer C, the firm that bought the C Market. So, Miroslav Miskovic. This is why, Mr. Albianich, we can talk about this and we'll talk all day, because these are important things for this society. Society needs to get answers to these questions. I can't do things by saying, "Here, you've been stealing money from Serbia in Cyprus, Miskovic." You're so rich. And then he says, you kidnapped me and you killed Djindjic. They can't work like that, Mr. Albian, and don't expect us to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11096	The word has a People's MP Milena Stankovic, and then a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11097	To pick up where you interrupted me, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11098	I didn't interrupt you, but you broke the Rules of Procedure and talked for more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11099	Which member of the Rules of Procedure did I break? You spoke more than I did. First of all, you mustn't, Mr. Albianic, discuss with me from where you are. You give your valuable courts from that place, and you have no right to do that. Your authority is to hold a session, not to enter a debate with us, which you keep doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11100	I'm going to run things by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11101	It's my right to characterise our Serbian society from this pay phone the way I feel and see it, and that's my party's vision. You have no right to prevent me from making this public. So when I said this was schizoid society, I didn't insult anyone. This is how I experience this society, and it's not just me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11102	What does that mean, Miss Stankovic, can you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11103	There are 400,000 people who support LDP policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11104	Can you explain that term to us, so I can give you a heads-up if it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11105	The term "schizoidan" means to split a person's personality, to duplicate a person's personality. We've been brought into that position in this country. The best, bravest and smartest of this society are leaving because they don't have the opportunity to live as normal as any healthy, normal world that needs to work and create something normal. In this society it is not possible, but it is therefore possible to hunt in the dim and that, if you are the worst, you are making progress, so it is possible that if you tap the shoulder of the most powerful man in Serbia, perhaps, you become some so-called The famous 'expert', or let you brand this unfortunate, miserable, humiliated and defeated Serbia. We're not gonna let that happen. Every time we go out and say what we think, whatever the price is. You, Mr. Albianic, are the last person who can stop us. It's higher than schizoside. It's schizophrenic. When I said we were on our way back, I thought we were on our way to becoming a schizophrenic society. The ruling majority, and of course the opposition, who is this fluent in what I'm saying, plays a big part in it. It's high time the laws were respected in this country. It is high time for this parliament to make a public statement on whether it supports Mr Miskovic in what he is doing, whether he supports him in destroying everything that is valuable in this country. The laws must be above everything and everyone. That's what the LDP is asking of you, nothing more, Mr. Albianic. So don't act like one and don't stop us from saying what we're trying to say. I'm really sorry that I had to be this temperamental and scream so much, I apologize to Parliament, but I will always do that when you stop me from saying what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11106	The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11107	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in order to correct the error associated with my previous reporting, members 27 and 104 and in relation to 225 and 226. Do not prevent us from reporting to members of 225 and 226, for MPs in this House have the right to be informed and have the right to know everything we are talking about. So that you don't qualify us as giving a flat-rate charge and how we memorize some people here, who, by their scandalous behavior, have caused this kind of reaction to the LDP, we're talking about documents, documents on the registration of a company and one indictment of the District Court in Pozharevec. Accordingly, I am taking the opportunity to ask some questions that some people in this Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia can answer. Question – who is Mr. Dragoljub Mitic and what is he accused of? The indictment says – because, in the capacity of the responsible person, the director of the damaged fire bank, by taking advantage of his official position and by exceeding the limits of his authority, he obtained property benefit and the company Hemlade Trading Limit from Nicosia amounted to 100,000, that I did not read the entire indictment. I would only stay at one point, where it says that on November 3, 1993, he personally handed Nikola Kipros, a company called Hemside Trading Limit from Nicosia, 100 thousand German marks. The second document I have in front of me is a document on the registration of this company in Cyprus. It was registered in 1991. The question is, who owns this company, the question that we all know the answer to. It is known which companies and how they are registered and why registered in Cyprus in the 1990s, began in 1991 and beyond. You know what was done in 1993. To remind all those present here how we lived then, then the rich man considered himself the one who had 10 marks of pay, at a time when inflation was unremembered, unrecorded in world history. Of course, we demand answers to these questions, which everyone and how well they know in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11108	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11109	Article 27, related to Art. 27 224 and 225 and Article 104. To avoid confusion, we have obtained all MPs, and we will share it, a paper on the registration of the company "Hemside Trading Limit" from Nicosia, which clearly shows that it is the owner of this company at the establishment of Miroslav Miskovic. (Zoran Krasic from the place: Is Mladjan Dinkic there?) It's about a copy of the original. Whether it's Mladjan Dinkic or not, we'll see. That is why it is necessary, Mr. Krasic, to set up a committee of inquiry in order for everyone to present everything they know about this. We think he's a injured member of 40, who regulates the Committee's work. We are sure that the members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, which discussed the threats and pressures on the members of the Commission, were not familiar with the complete material we have on the company "Delta", nor were they familiar with all the circumstances related to the company. On how unrealistic the decision was at that point and how it was made by the majority of the votes of the parliamentary majority, which ignores it, shows the statement of the editor-in-chief, the "Politicals" editor, three days after the Committee's session, which just proves what the ruling majority tried, by its vote, to deny. That's what we keep saying. Miroslav Miskovic, the owner of thousands of companies, among other things, and Hemislad Trading Limit from Nicosia, which you have heard only for the past six minutes 10 evidence about how money has been exported from Serbia to Cyprus, from Cyprus to the company, is owned by half of Serbia. Of course he's calling, of course he's threatening, of course he's pressuring and of course he's using his mob media, his associates in his business to deceive the public in every way possible. So much for this time. I'll get back to you. We're going after Miskovic and the crime in the next report.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11110	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I mention Article 27, and I insist on an urgent decision on a proposal for a decision to form a committee of inquiry. It is not important in itself how important it is to see how much we, as Parliament, respect the institutions that we have formed ourselves, and that is the Commission for the Protection of Competition. The commission, each of us, should be ashamed, again yesterday made a decision prohibiting the so-called. the concentration of capital, i.e. the merger of a firm called Example C, which is in fact a local name for the Shore Company's Hemside Trading Limit from Cyprus, and the C Market. I repeat, if Parliament deafens or closes its institution's decision, then it is the bottom of democracy and a definitive end to the rule of law. It doesn't matter what a company's name is, what its owner's name is. It's important whether we respect the principle, whether we respect that institution that the National Assembly formed, exactly, to prevent the existence of a monopoly. What's the consequence? Ladies and gentlemen, he collects bread, collects oil, collects milk, basic provisions of life. Here are the most expensive of all in Southeast Europe, and above the truth everyone is muttering. The MPs are ready to close their eyes. That's what we don't allow. We'll raise our voice every day against it. Of course, we were amazed when the Deputy Prime Minister went away and said it was a state interest, or a state project. How can a private company be a state interest or a state project? The second minister of attack, I don't know, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, because the vice president of the company did not give consent. I said yesterday and I'll repeat, it's not my criticism, it's my disappointment with our comrades, our colleagues and friends from the DS. If the chairman of the DS Legal Committee, who has the majority in the government and whose anti-corruption council institution, with Verica Barac headed, submits criminal charges not against the Delta company, which attacks Verica Barac, but against Verica Barac, it is no longer just the end of the rule of law, but a lack of elementary morality, and I worry whether there is a rescue then.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11112	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11113	Articles 27 and 104, plus 225 and 226. Again, I ask the question – why didn't you allow the survey committee to be formed or, on the other hand, why didn't all the members of the Trade and Tourism Committee come to know all the circumstances and facts related to the company Delta? Among other things, the aim of forming a survey committee was to identify the facts and circumstances related to the illicit, illegal influence and spray of Delta and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is a copy of the White Paper of the Network Action, in which an investigation has been launched in a certain way against some people. We ask the question – why was no investigation launched and against Miroslav Miskovic, when the entire police action, which followed in the first half of this year, was against it, I will just say some names, how much do I remember, Stanko Subotic Canet and some others? We supported this action and said – well done, but do not expect that if you do one part, we will not ask for another part of that action. So, in the Network action, on tobacco smuggling from 1996 to 2000, the police report says that one of the four or five companies that made the most money at the job, the company "Delta" Miroslav Miskovic. The police report contains a picture and the name of Miroslav Miskovic. Our question is why he is not being processed, whether by controlling the media, he is doing services to the government of Vojislav Kostunica, by attacking, for example. The opposition, because it does not allow some topics to become topics in this society because Kostunica does not respond, and in return, Kostunica does not conduct investigations against it? Even, to remind you, we asked Minister Jocic about a specific, concrete criminal report filed against him by the police. The 2004 application has been removed, it is said, in a drawer. What about that application? What we point to is that there is a link between Delta and the Serbian government. The link is so public that it is defended by ministers, or is opened by the vice-presidents of the government by a shopping mall, which, even, does not have a license, all the way to Mladjan Dinkic, which opens his water factory. That's how it's the so-called link under the table. Serbia's government is doing him various favors, besides allowing his monopoly position. So, once again, we demand that a survey committee be formed. We will prepare very well for this committee of inquiry. We expect it from everyone. You don't have to defend him in secret anymore, you don't have to go into your word, you don't have to make us report to the Rules of Procedure. Let this question, which is very serious, be institutionalized and resolved in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11114	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11115	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which states: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP." From this member of the Rules of Procedure, I am producing the right to, in accordance with the remarks he is speaking about during today's discussion, ask two questions to you, as chairman, so to Mr Petrovic, acting as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and directly relate to the appearance that we are all openly or indirectly condemning. I'm not asking you to verify the credibility of the charge brought to me by the president of a private company, I think there are other institutions for that. What I can tell you is that I'm ready at any moment, as I've done so far, to always answer every question I've ever been asked in front of these institutions, regardless of the obvious intention to discredit these issues, my political role in society. If that means anything to you, I will not call on any parliamentary immunity on this issue, as I have not called for it, and I will not ask Parliament, nor in this discussion to answer those questions to which the court has to answer, which in its letter to me and who knows who else, since it is semi-written, has been asked by the president of the company "Delta" Miroslav Miskovic. What I ask of Parliament, Mr. Minister, especially of you, Mr. Aligrudic, are the answers to one phenomenon and they relate to this unnatural role and the relationship between politics and business, in which one company thought it was bigger not only than our society, but also any party in this society. I am therefore interested in, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, getting a reply from the Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica – whether he has ever authorised the president of the company "Delta" Miroslav Miskovic to offer, through his intermediaries, co-operation with the US ambassador of the Government of Serbia in the process of Kosovo negotiations on the co-operation of the US government in removing him from the "black list", which includes him and some prominent officials of his company. I don't think that's true. I don't think it's an exact finding that he made during those talks, and in which the president of the state, and the Prime Minister, and the Vice President, and you, Mr. Minister, and your colleagues have characterised as his officers, who will unspeakably do what he asks of you. I smiled as you are now laughing, but it would be good to sanction Miroslav Miskovic for such a procedure, so that no one would ever think about being able to behave in such a way. The silence before this problem is either evidence of weakness and impotence or confirmation of the correctness of the views expressed. Secondly, a very important question, to which the answer does not want Miroslav Miskovic to give, but rather tries to push him into another plan, relates to the anti-monopol commission's decision. When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia apply the Competition Protection Act and charge 10% of the turnover as a penalty from Delta for two years of violations of the Anti-Monopolitan Law? Given that the projected profit this year is the company, i.e. Transport, 1,700,000 euros, is estimated to be about 400,000 euros. That amount is huge, it is necessary for this society, we have so many suggestions and ways to spend that money. We are only interested in when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will apply the Law and collect the fine from Miroslav Miskovic and thus show its impartiality and deny everything that we normally present during this debate, criticising certain procedures of government representatives in contact with the company "Delta" in which they themselves are represented as officials of Miroslav Miskovic, not Vojislav Kostunica or the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. So, two questions. Check where the store rights come from. I don't think anyone in this House will give consent to that kind of trade, which pays one visa to Kosovo, and that everyone in Parliament will sanction that boast. Secondly, answer when the fine will be charged and 400,000 euros will be paid in the budget, how much does the company "Delta" have to pay for breaking the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11116	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word on the amendment submitted by MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11117	With this amendment, we wanted to remove what was wrong with the bill, but we're surprised that the government doesn't see that it was wrong. It cannot be the same procedure when it comes to the constitutional appeal filed by the citizen and the proceedings under appeal by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province or the local self-government unit. What's it cost you to pull that off into a special chapter? Nothing, team before you have an obligation. You've given all the chapters in the bill according to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Why did you put it together here? It's not clear at all, a team before I could say that, by the very text of the Constitution, you have an obligation to single it out. Just to remind you, the system in which you have exposed the matter of this law is based mainly on the provision of Article 167 where the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is stated, but to draw this out in a special chapter, this right gives you Article 167 paragraph 2 point 6) which you have already used in matters of jurisdiction regarding the President of the Republic, so you have singled out a special chapter, this is the next chapter. You could also draw this out as a special chapter, based on the provision of Article 193 and the provisions of Article 187. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we didn't get into these details. We believe that there is a difference in the procedure before the Constitutional Court when it comes to constitutional appeal and when it comes to a complaint that protects the right to autonomy and the right to local self-government, so before you gave the two options in the Constitution. I believe that this bill only gains quality if you add a new chapter 9 to Article 90 in front of Article 90, or after Article 90, – The appeal procedure for preventing the exercise of the jurisdiction of an autonomous province or local self-government. Everything is in accordance with the Constitution, the text is improving, and I think you need to accept it, in order to systemize everything better, so that the procedure under the constitutional appeal and in this appeal cannot be the same. The participants differ, and the way the Constitutional Court should decide. It is, formally-legal, an individual legal act in both situations, but you realize that these are individual legal acts of a different character. When it comes to constitutional appeal, it is a legal act in which in some ways it is resolved on the rights and obligations of an individual from the viewpoint of his rights and freedoms, and when it comes to complaints from the competent authorities of the AP and local self-government, then it is also the individual acts of some other authorities, but they are not directed at a person, to a specific individual, but only by their own character are individual acts, and they concern the rights of autonomy and rights to local self-government. I don't see why you didn't accept this, because it's only improving the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11118	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before Zoran Krasic, I give my word to the MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11119	Mr. Albianic, it is really incomprehensible that much of your desire to defend Miskovic. Not knowing how, you're pretending you don't see us reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did you think we'd give up if you ignored me being here? So, Art. 226, 27, 225, and I can add, since I'm offended, because you didn't give me a word when I asked for it, Article 104. So, we were already talking about Hemslad, and to prove how pedantic Mr. Miskovic is and to break any doubt that he owned the company, here, in 2004, in Cyprus, the Company Act was changed. We have one paper in which Mr. Miskovic reregisters the company again in his name, so in 2004. This is very interesting, because another thing is happening in Serbia then, namely, Mr. Miroslav Miskovic sells his "Delta Banka" to the Bank of "Inteza" from Italy. And when everyone in the country was happy, because selling means that one part of the tax on capital gains was supposed to get the state of Serbia, since the Delta Bank is from Serbia, that tax was supposed to help all Serbian citizens to live better, because it was a large amount of money, then we realized that the Delta Bank was not a Serbian company, but a Heslede Trading from Cyprus. So we've asked a question a few times and I'm asking it one more time. Is that when the capital tax was paid? If it isn't, why isn't it? We've asked Mr Dinkic 50 times so far. Instead of opening the water factories of Miroslav Miskovic, it better give the citizens of Serbia the answer. Is that money paid? If he didn't, why didn't he? And if not, as we claim, because the owner of the company was a Cyprus company, owner of Delta Bank, then how can Mr. Djelic be a state project? Whose country is this project? The countries of Cyprus or the states of Serbia? So how many more things do we have to say that you would agree to form a survey board and that this is not done in this way, but that, nicely, through the form known to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it enables everyone, including Mr. Miskovic, to be brave, because he came out of chess after 18 years, so when he's already out, because it's so rare for him to come out of chess, that we all see him, to take advantage of the opportunity while he's in the light of day and ask him everything we want to ask him. Among other things, and where did the money go when the Delta Bank was sold, but we still have a lot of questions. How the Delta Bank made its profit, but about it in the next report.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11120	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11121	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, in accordance with Article 226, I would like to ask you the very question. After the completion of the presentation, you are passing through here, I apologize if this is an abuse, said your name is not on the list of those Mr. Miskovic, in contact with the US Embassy, mentioned as his officials in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, on behalf of his download from the "black list" of the United States, will be cooperative in the search for a final solution to the Kosovo problem. I, from the record that you know that your name is not on that list, have concluded that you know that a list exists. Can you, as Minister of Justice, take responsibility here on behalf of the Government that you represent and inform Parliament when the government will discuss this issue and, then, when will you introduce us to the government's conclusions? It's not such a complicated situation. The government may find that we are talking nonsense, let it get to the public, but we warn you in advance that we have documents that support what we are talking about, and these documents today become indictments, not for those who did it, not for Miroslav Miskovic and his representatives in contact with the US Embassy, but for those who are silent before that, and they know that, and that is Kostunica's cabinet. To what does Miroslav Miskovic deserve such a special status, and who besides him has such a status in our society? These are important political issues. They're not at all personal. I am not accusing Kostunica of this case, until he takes a clear stand. And who would take that position after what we said and after our willingness to pass on to him materials that confirm the authenticity of this arrogant process? Then what we have said so many times will be confirmed, which is that, indeed, the company "Delta" has become bigger than this Serbia, and the owner of the company "Delta" is experiencing himself more and more important than the government of Serbia itself. Otherwise, as Minister of Justice, you know very well the severity of the charges raised in my account by Mr. Miskovic, and you know very well how fair my answer is to such a thing, when I say that I am willing to offer an answer to that question within the institution, not in a public campaign, or here for the assembly speaker, but within the institution. That's why I'm going to request a conversation with the special prosecutor to reopen that question if there's room for such a thing. I ask you, as a representative of the Government, to make a statement about what the Government will do, if that is true, or what you, as deputy president of the DS and minister of justice in that government, will do to sanction such abuse as was committed by Mr Miskovic, and at the expense of this society and the government itself that represents him. We can disagree and disagree on a number of issues, but this country must have a government and must have a Parliament. This parliament can be bad and this government can be bad, but in one case and another, we do not agree that one company should be replaced by one institution and another. I was quoting a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11122	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Prior to that, Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11123	Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, I don't even know what you're talking about, because I was listening in the car to a part of what you said in "The Fist". I came from Sapac here, as every day, to the Serbian Parliament, so I had the opportunity to listen to your conversation with Mrs Danica Vukinic for 10-15 minutes, when I heard that you were talking about some kind of document that existed in connection with some conversation that was held at a foreign embassy by Miroslav Miskovic or some of his representatives. Since you were here pointing your finger at me while you were talking, so you said that my name was in those papers, when you passed here, next to me, I said - Mr. Chedomir, I didn't say - Mr. Jovanovic, but Chedomir, because you and I don't persecute each other except under official circumstances - can't be that my name is in any paper. What you're asking me now, I don't know anything, and I can't answer that, because obviously, I'm not an address that can give any kind of answer. Mr Jovanovic, I invite you to submit any documents you have to either the MUP, or the district attorney in Belgrade, or the special prosecutor, or the BIA, or to deliver it to this parliament, so, directly or indirectly, those documents, which I assume you have, will come into all the procedures that are prescribed in this country. I'm very supportive, and I want all this to light up, so I'm asking you not to waste your time and not to open this debate from the pay phone. Of course, it's a legitimate thing, I have nothing against it, but it's a shame that you don't give everything in the day if you have something, so that those in charge of it in this country are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11124	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, with your previous exposure, you have kind of provoked me. I report to article 200, since I did not get an answer from you to one simple question - does Slobodan Vučetic, former president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, still receive the salary of the President of the Court? Has the Government decided by the Constitutional Court that he obtained a pension condition on October 10th of last year to send the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, did you file a criminal complaint against Slobodan Vučetic, because it is a criminal offence if you are taking money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and for no reason are you doing so? I must remind you that I have filed a series of criminal charges, which I have never received an answer to; they have neither been rejected nor processed. They refer to the formation and privatisation of the National Savings Bank, the Cypriot money and the offshore company, one of them is mentioned briefly from this pay phone, related to abuses on RTS, etc. It's been years, no one's responding. Here's something I stayed in debt yesterday, or my words were misread. General Radoslav Krstic was convicted of genocide in The Hague tribunal, for helping with genocide, encouragement, complicity, complicity. Radoslav Krstic won the apartment, we have a report by the then Defence Minister Davinic, in the "Cvescara 2", of over 150 square meters. I've been addressed for months by military homeless people, by the most endangered category of people, by people who have been homeless since 1991, without a roof over their heads, without anything, living like desperate people, like exiles, while those who, for God's sake, are heroes get apartments of a few acres. That's the answer to that question, as for the gray stuff they're looking for answers. What we insist on, it's an elemental thing. Will Parliament respect its institution - the Commission for the Protection of Competition? That commission has made its decision. Someone blatantly, arrogantly ignores, tramples over it, and it's the twilight of the rule of law. Are we going to protect our institution and ourselves, or are we going to let someone be without a pardon master of Serbia, and all the puppets in his puppet theatre?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11126	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11127	Mr Batić, the day you asked this question about Mr Vučetic, I received information from my associates that they forwarded the question to those addresses where we can get an answer - the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Finance. Just as eager as you expect me to get that answer, like all MPs sitting in this House. I am fully convinced that we will receive notice of this important matter within the time limit prescribed by the rules under which we operate and act here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11128	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11129	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, and in relation to Article 226. I'm glad that the Presidency of the Assembly, at least the presidents of the ruling majority, have retired, I hope that they will make some wise decisions so that we can continue our work. And I was provoked by what Mr. Minister Petrovic said to the head of our parliamentary group. I don't know anything about your personal relationships, but I have to admit that I was surprised by the attitude that you don't understand what we're talking about. So, Mr. Petrovic, we're talking about the Delta monopoly. What you're proposing to us, to hand over the documents we have to the competent institutions, that just sounds so proudly to the competent institutions. The institutions you mentioned are people, like all other institutions. The ones you mentioned included BIA - Rade Bulatović. How do we believe he'll do something? You mentioned the prosecutor, Mr. Radovanovic. Do you expect us as MPs to trust us? Despite this lack of trust, of course we have submitted all these documents, not now, but over the past year. Nothing's been done. That's where our request to form a committee of inquiry came from. That's what we're talking about here. The LDP parliamentary group has asked for a survey committee to be formed to discover the collegiations related to the Delta company, which is exactly what it means, which have an effect on our society and on the lives of all citizens, which have an effect on your judicial employees who strike. Is there a reason why they can't get a salary increase that Delta didn't pay the capital gains tax when the Delta bank was sold to the Inthesis Bank? Is that a reason or not? That's what the board of inquiry needs to talk about. We don't think there's any higher institution than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we asked for it. What we are doing now is our reaction to what you, as the ruling majority, do not personally ignore that request and what Mica Albianic tells us - when it is, it will be, just don't now is not the time. I'm reporting by article 27. As a parliamentary question, I asked the president of Serbia and government employees, not entering who is responsible, to deliver an official note from a meeting held in the Serbian government, attended by Vojislav Kostunica, Misa Beko, Miroslav Miskovic and who knows who else. That's when the sale of the "C-market" was agreed, just the sale that the Competition Protection Commission challenged yesterday for the second time. If you are looking for a response from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, the main order was to deliver this to the members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, so that they could make their decision in the right way. It's not done. So, I ask, Article 27 regulates the responsibilities of the president of the National Assembly, what did he do to get an answer to that question after two months, as a MP? What was done about it? Is the meeting, just two more sentences, suggested by Miroslav Miskovic as our country's negotiator on Kosovo? I see there's some misunderstanding about what this is about. Repeat, I'll use half a minute to say that. Miroslav Miskovic is on the American Embassy's blacklist. In real life, it means he can't get a visa to join the United States. To obtain the visa, he offered not his own services, he offered the US Embassy the co-operation of the Serbian government in solving Kosovo's problems. That could mean two things. One is – if he gets a visa...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11130	Thank you, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11132	You're finishing one minute, please don't. Here, you'll get your word back on the Rules of Procedure, don't overrun it, it turns out I'm working with you now, don't do this to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11133	I apologized, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11134	Well, I'm an opposition in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11135	I think it's very important to hear this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11136	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11137	What he has offered is that for the Serbian government, if Miskovic gets a visa, Kosovo is no longer part of Serbia, if he can fly to the US, or swim, what he's already doing. On the other hand, if he can't get a visa, then we'll all go to war for Kosovo. Is it possible to conduct politics in this country in this way? We don't think so. Because he did it, he has to bear the consequences. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11138	Thank you, Mr. Andric. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Just hold on for three minutes and no problem. Here, I'm not talking to you, I'm speaking to you in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11139	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I allow you to listen well to me in the car, but you did not listen well here during the debate. I made myself very clear. I've asked you two questions as a representative of the government. When will the government come to terms with the situations we're talking about here? When will he offer an answer to two simple questions? Is it true or not that Miroslav Miskovic traded Kosovo for his visa and when will the government charge the fine from the company Delta for misusing its position on the market and robbing our citizens? That's 10% of the year's traffic. The law is clear. You're asking me to forward the paperwork. We've done it so many times so far, both to the D.A.'s office and the police, and to the D.A.'s departments. Mr Batic said he reacted in the case of former Constitutional Court President Mr Vučetic. He asked you. You said you forwarded that question to another address. The other one will pass on to the third. From that third address, the answer will never arrive. Look at how your initiatives are going. Request a judge's release for criminal conduct in the Ilarion case. How did the Supreme Court react? He doesn't care about your initiative. We told you seven days ago that the same thing was gonna happen with the Pahomia case. Why? Because we know that the President of the Supreme Court then pressured the Court of Justice in Vranj. The only two courts she was interested in were the Court of Justice in Vranje, in order to protect the bishop of Pahomy, and the Special Court, in which it was being held, on behalf of the previous government, with judges and prosecutors who led the most significant process of our judiciary, which is the trial against the assassins of Zoran Djindjic. You have to answer when the government will come forward. We are not obliged to be the ones to provide additional information to the government, first of all, because we know very well that this information is familiar to you, that you yourself know that it is so and that you do not know what you are going to do with this Miskovic now. Obligations and relationships are too tight. That is why it is possible for the Deputy Prime Minister to glorify "Delta" on Thursday and deal with every normal man in this country who does not like what the company is doing, and on Monday, it is solidarity with those who attacked Thursday. We said that within the framework of the institutions, we would offer answers to every question, and we are asking you to say here in Parliament what you are going to do, that you can ask for our support – give me these materials that you have, behold, I need them for a session of the government that will be held on Thursday, not to say, will be made clear by the competent institutions. These institutions don't exist. It will not be done by the prosecution, because the prosecutor was in a hug with Miskovic, while Miskovic was covered by the police action "The Network". That's not what BIA's gonna do, because Miskovic was an honorary guest at BIA's reception. It will not be done by Police Minister Jocic, because he knows that Miskovic was in better and more privileged status than he was. You have to answer these questions, much more to the public than to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11140	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11141	I am truly sorry that the debate on the Constitutional Court, which has put very much effort into MPs, has been interrupted. I think we have had a good debate in our Parliament on such an important issue, a very serious quality. Okay. Mr Jovanovic, I understand, from what I really listened to informally, because it was an unofficial opportunity, and from what you're saying now, that you have evidence of some particular event that took place in some particular place recently, where Mr Miskovic himself, or through some representative, offered to make some kind of contact with senior state officials, and that, on the other hand, he would manage for himself to acquire some kind of benefit. So this isn't about political attitude. This is about one particular event, and I understand, maybe I didn't get it right, that you have evidence of it. So, I don't know if the government has any knowledge of this event or not, the description of my job is that I'm not in a position to do that kind of thing. What you said at the pay phone certainly represents a form of parliamentary question. I'm sure you'll get an answer to your parliamentary question very soon. If you have the knowledge and evidence of a concrete event, which took place on a specific day, and where certain persons participated, I am now using legal terminology, because this is the topic that you have opened, I invite you to present these findings. I'm sure that knowledge will be done. On the other hand, I see no reason why the Ministry of Finance, all of us, Parliament and you as the applicant of the issues, would not in a very short time answer whether there are obligations of the company under this basis that you have said, what is, when it will be charged, whether this decision is final, whether it is similar for payment and what else can arise in such a situation as an open question. So I believe that this second question of yours will be answered very quickly. If I was able to answer both of you right now, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11142	I thank the minister. The words of the Rules of Procedure have been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, or by replica, I did not understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11143	Mr. Chairman, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, Article 226. I told you how the initiatives that respect the procedures that you're talking about are going through. Are you personally prepared to take responsibility for the initiative that we would launch, by handing over to you, as minister of justice, those documents, so that you, as minister of justice, can start this debate within the government, then get that response from the government, and from you resign – if the Government is not prepared to answer that question? Everything else seems very unserious to us. You know how much we've run. We've been here talking to the police minister about the topics we're talking about right now, and everything's on check and it's going to be on check for months. What we're having here today is something that's been imposed. I agree that we should go back to discussing the Constitutional Court. It's a very important question for us. That's what we've talked about so many times. Try to understand the way we're opening this question. I'm not accusing you. I ask you, as the person who has taken great responsibility through the function of the minister of justice, to offer a public response to this unnatural situation in which we are. Could any company be bigger than any government? Can any personal or private interest be more pronounced than public? All other questions need to be answered elsewhere. It's very clear here: is the government even ready to go on its own to solve this problem? Is he asking for the help of the opposition, i.e. LDP? If you need our help, then we ask you to support the formation of a committee of inquiry, in which we will only have one representative, in which we will talk very clearly and reasonedly, in front of the public and before the representatives of all parliamentary groups. In front of the survey board, anyone who thinks they can contribute to the full truth. It will not be a polling committee that will seek solutions for the problems that other institutions need to address, just this, a couple of excellencies, politically, defining the relationship between politics and the business world, in a very clear way of determining the rules of the game, which will not allow anyone to think that the government, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, any prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, can be his private official at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11144	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11145	Mr Jovanovic, by the nature of things, everything you give me in my hands, you can be sure that I will forward it to every competent place, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are here, saying ten minutes ago, pointing your hand at me and saying that you have knowledge that there is some kind of document that says that I am an officer of Miroslav Miskovic. Give me that, please. Where does that say, who said that? I want to file a private suit, criminal charges. You tell me who told you he heard from someone or that you saw some paper or document that I, Dusan Petrovic, am an officer of Miroslav Miskovic? As far as public interest is concerned, I'm taking over, because it's my job and it's the Constitution and the law that put me in charge. You're absolutely right about that. What I'm doing is a matter that requires a very large responsibility. Now I have a private request for you. Since I want to prosecute anyone who has given it to you or, if there is any document, to deliver it to me, because, although I have very complex relations with everyone who participates in the judicial process, I believe in the courts and I want to exorcise it through the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11146	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11147	Article 101. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we do not need your private initiative. You're a representative of an institution. We don't need a postman to give you something and then you pass it on to someone else. To whom will you submit a report from the meeting, held with the intervention of journalist Grubačić at the US Embassy, during which a number of ministers, including Deputy Prime Ministers and Prime Ministers, as officials of Miroslav Miskovic, are ready to do anything for him? Who are you going to pass it on to, Lord Djelic, the BIA, the D.A.'s office? Do you see what's going on? Do you feel a commitment to the fact that, let's say, the Committee on Trade in this Parliament discussed the pressures that this Parliament has put on the institution, that the members of this institution - the Antimonopoly Commission - have said that pressures have been made, mentioned ministers who carry out these pressures, and then the majority found there was no pressure? That's what this is about. So you're a representative of the institution. Of course I'd be happy to forward all the materials to you. There's nothing exclusive about this procedure. We've done it before. Did we hand over, under regular numbers, a list of cases from Belgrade, city police, in which the company Delta was processed, which were taken out and archived without being solved? Is this where our MPs talk about numerous violations all the time? Have I shown in advance that I am not burdening this debate with my personal relationship or the role that I have in this problem that we are talking about at this point? All I ask of you is that, as a representative of an institution, you take that responsibility, not to tell me, "Ask the Ministry of Finance," but to tell me when the government will react and apply the law. You should say, "I will insist, as Minister of Justice, that the laws of this country are respected, not "I will ask the Minister of Finance". Who will be asked by the finance minister - Deputy Prime Minister, and the Deputy Prime Minister will not be able to answer at that time, as he will be at the opening of one of the Potemkin Villages' company "Delta". You'll get all the materials, they'll be given to the Special Prosecutor's Office, but we expect one reaction from the D.A. and we expect from the judiciary, and we expect a political reaction from you, Mr. Minister. Distant from that impression created about the government of the Republic of Serbia, as one of the exposures of the company "Delta". Look what the media looks like today. When the president of this country writes a letter, there's no such treatment. Today, our state delegation began negotiations on Kosovo. See who is more important and whose views have more space in the media, are the attitudes that promote the interest of this country or the interest of a man who has subordinated this country to himself, blackmail, corruption, threats, pressures? That's what you need to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11148	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, on his amendment to Article 93. (National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic appears on the occasion of the amendment of MP Amjad Migati. We've passed Mr. Migati's amendment. It's read and you haven't answered. Now it's Mr. Krasic's amendment. You can't answer about Mr. Migati's amendment, because it's passed. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11149	If I wanted to continue in that tone in which you spoke to our MP, what should I tell you? Don't "Mr. Andric" me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11150	If you don't want me to call you Mr. Andric, I'll appreciate that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11151	Mr. Albianic, I don't care what you call me. What I want to point to is related to Articles 105, 27, 225, and 226. What bothers me, since you are not allowed to defend Mr. Miskovic publicly, is that you are trying to do something here, with some petty tampering. You haven't seen Mr. Rangelovic before, you haven't seen five of us who appear in the Rules of Procedure, then you have some mangupice charm, or at least you think you have. That bothers me, Mr. Albianic. That's your thing. What I want to talk about is another point which is why we asked for a survey committee to be formed and what we feel the need to meet the MPs. Namely, these are facts and circumstances related to the illegal influence of Delta's company on the media. We don't think this is about the direct business interest of Delta, so it's about making money from the media, it's about that company, by controlling the media, doing two things. One is that, by planting and misusing the media, it makes it impossible to talk about what we talked about – about the four hundred million euros that went to another country, which are not, for example, paid as a capital gains tax. In this way, he does not want to, or prevent, talk about various abuses that he commits and wants to preserve his monopoly. On the other hand, the company "Delta" has an impact, first of all, on the daily newspaper, such as "Evening News", "Pres", or "Kurr", so we can see exactly, by reading "Kurr", whether he gave enough money to that Rodic, or as the owner of "Kurra" is already called, by blackmailing all electronic media -- by threatening to pull commercials out of them if something about "Delti" is published, etc. They try to blackmail, and mostly, unfortunately, they succeed. That way the Delta company gets another thing, which is -- creating such an influence on the media, it allows various things to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. For these things that enables, by attack, disqualification of political opponents or some other things, the company "Delta" in return gets, Mr Petrovic, hitching criminal charges, ignoring the law, our proposal to set up a polling commission, missing from the Network action, and these are all the questions that we, as MPs, have been asking these months or, more specifically, since May of this year, since this Parliament's work, have been asking all the relevant ministers. We keep saying that. Ignored to inform us of anything or, at the very least, by giving us the answer that they were not competent or that they had forwarded any further questions, led us to this situation, which is that Miskovic, through his mafia media, is attacking the head of the opposition party's parliamentary group, that we are still looking for a committee of inquiry, and that the ruling majority is silent and waiting for our mouths to dry so that they can continue to talk about what suits them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11152	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we've been discussing the Rules of Procedure for 10 hours, and now it's 15 to 12. We've got a few more reports on the Rules of Procedure, which is proof that we don't want to stop at this. I'm asking, though, because I don't want to influence the course of the session, as you've noticed, not to obstruct the work of the session. That's why I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and calling a meeting of the heads of parliament to discuss further work. I think it would be our turn to consider some amendments. Mr Nikolic reported, too, according to the Rules of Procedure, but we have some other reports on the Rules of Procedure. Parliament's work cannot be obstructed. I'm giving a break of 10 minutes for a meeting of the heads of Parliament on the first floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Just one brief statement on the consultation with the heads of the parliamentary groups. It is agreed that the LDP Parliament's initiative, when the president returns, should be seriously considered in the ordinary procedure. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we want this Parliament to do its job and return to the agenda that has been discussed until the debate has been initiated, and regarding the abuses of the company Delta, to the story of the Constitutional Court. The Committee of Auditors is the place where we can discuss all the questions we've asked over a few hours. I am pleased with the assurances and levels of seriousness that marked our consultations. I am sure that the parliamentary parties, regardless of whether they form a ruling coalition, or represent an opposition to Parliament, will have the understanding of the endangered public interest of our society and of our voters, and that understanding is the basis for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, on which we will then discuss all the topics we have been working on during today's debate. We will no longer mention Mr. Miskovic, nor the company "Delta", we will not point to his abuses. We will save this topic for the work of the polling committee and for the preparation of the establishment of a survey committee, through consultations that will be scheduled immediately after the President's return from the official road, which is the only one authorized to do such a thing. So, by the end of the week or the beginning of next week, which is the deadline within which we want to get Parliament's answer whether it is ready to open a debate on such a large issue, a question raised by Delta company's activities in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11155	Thank you. We're continuing our work on the agenda. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11156	With this amendment, we just want to preserve the Constitution from the legislator. Article 93 refers to the decision-making procedure for the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic, and Article 4 states: 'If the Constitutional Court finds that the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution and the law... 'At first, we don't know which law. Because the discharge procedure only regulates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law on the President of the Republic does not regulate and cannot regulate that matter, but well. The Act of the National Assembly which initiates the decision-making procedure on the infringement of the Constitution shall be communicated to the President of the Republic, within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. We ask that the introductory part of this sentence be deleted, and that is the text - if the Constitutional Court finds that the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Why? Because the Constitutional Court is competent only to determine whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. It's his jurisdiction. Why put these things in? If this sentence is inserted and this is what it says, then I can ask a question - and what if the Constitutional Court finds that the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic is not in accordance with the Constitution, what will it be? As soon as an authority determines something, whether it is a formal or a previous question, it is engaged in something that is competent, and for these matters the Constitutional Court is not competent. That's the problem. Because this formulation allows manipulation. What kind? It is possible that a third of the Members of Parliament may request that the procedure be initiated in the National Assembly for the resolution of the President of the Republic, and a third of the sum of the Council that he has violated the Constitution, so it is delivered to the Constitutional Court, and then the Constitutional Court says - well, that has not been done so far in accordance with the Constitution and, you say more - the law, and we do not know what the law is. Then he says we can't discuss whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution or not. Then the Constitutional Court disabling the initiative of a group of MPs. Let us remain on what is prescribed to be the sole jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. He determines whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution or not, and nothing else. When he receives an appropriate act from the Assembly, he puts it in his own procedure. Now I'm not going to hypothetically expose you to all the possibilities, if this formulation is left by the government, but they allow abuse, and you know the saying "whose snake burns, and the lizard is afraid." He's not here. While he was sitting here where Hope is sitting right now, you remember Hope, he couldn't even make a proposal about mistrust to get into the procedure. Jump, junior, and he says - you can't, you didn't even vote for the government. The proposal did not even enter the agenda, although the Constitution explicitly said, at the request of 20 MPs, etc., that, later in November 2003, the initiative of a group of 20 Members would legally enter, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, into the procedure. There is a possibility of abuse by the majority. It's legal, first of all, that the minority would have guaranteed rights. And for these reasons, when it comes to this subject, it's important. No one can devalue the Constitution by saying – we will only formally examine whether there are conditions, whether the conditions are formally met; it ends in the National Assembly, in terms of an act that goes towards the Constitutional Court. Any body that discusses a question within its jurisdiction always examines formal conditions, so that it can be involved in some act. Why are you putting him in like this? We only ask that what is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia remain and that nothing is added nor explained, because when added and explained, then what is written in the Constitution is devalued. You, it seems to me, that the Government has prescribed the Law on the President of the Republic and the election of the President of the Republic, which is where the 17-18 provisions were copied from the Constitution. That's inadmissible. As soon as you bring the constitutional norm down to legal norm, you say you don't need the Constitution. Let's make some changes, but literally prescribed the Constitution. It's a devaluation of the Constitution. It is possible that your motives were purely formal, but, knowing what the Constitutional Court is doing, what can happen, we have submitted this amendment and are asking it to be accepted. If accepted, it goes within the limits of what is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why the Legislative Committee said it was legal. If by any chance the Constitutional Committee had considered this, it would have had to confirm that the constitutional norm is more important than that the legal norm is devalued or, in some ways, is being upgraded by the constitutional norm, in a way that can create a billion situations that, in practice, bypass what is the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11157	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? Yes, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11158	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment submitted by Zoran Krasic for the following reasons. Maybe, for the sake of the public, there's more to explain what's going on. This is part of the Constitutional Court Act that regulates the decision-making procedure on the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. The procedure takes place in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at least one-third of the MPs. A decision is being taken in the Serbian Parliament to initiate the procedure. It is delivered to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court shall, within the deadline set out in the Constitution, respond from 45 days, to determine whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution and is limited only to what the National Assembly has delivered to him for an assessment, that is, consideration. The proposed law puts in a formula that we think is completely excessive. It is said that if the Constitutional Court finds that the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution and the law, only then will the Act of the National Assembly, which initiates the decision-making procedure on the infringement of the Constitution, be submitted to the President of the Republic within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. We think that sentence is too high, for a simple reason, I'm going back to yesterday's story, or the government's answers. Mr. Minister, what does it mean that the Constitutional Court only formally determines that the procedure has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution and the law? What's that formal? How can all other assessments of legality and constitutionality be divided into formal, essential, etc? We don't think it's even formally necessary. In order for this to take place on the agenda of the National Assembly, there must be one third of the signatures of MPs. If there are no thirds, it means that there are no conditions to be found at the National Assembly session. That story ends in the Assembly. In order for the Assembly to initiate a procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic and to ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, the decision must be voted at the National Assembly session. If there's not a third, there's no story at the National Assembly. If the National Assembly doesn't make a decision, there's no procedure. And if the initiative exists, if the Assembly has made a decision, what is now to be determined by the Constitutional Court, other than what was given to it in the Constitution, of course, and in accordance with Article 95, which it says, in the procedure of deciding on the infringement of the Constitution by the President of the Republic of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court is limited only to deciding on the infringements of the provisions of the Constitution which are set out in the Act of the National Assembly on the initiation of the procedure. As a matter of fact, the Constitutional Court, in this whole procedure, is limited to answering whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. There is no previous need here, as stated in the sentence – if the initiative is launched, that the Constitutional Court will formally, according to the Proposer, determine. I repeat, in order to hold a session of the Assembly, there must be one third of the MPs. To make a decision, there is a way to make decisions. It is only then that the Assembly can refer that decision to the Constitutional Court. If that's not there, there's not one-third, there's no assembly session on the issue. If there is no decision of the Assembly, there is no procedure. So, what does the Constitutional Court need to determine without the Assembly having already established? What is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is to determine whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution in that section of the National Assembly in the procedure that it has initiated. So there's no need for anything to stand for this, it's just too high, and the text that remains is quite enough to be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11159	On the amendment, MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11160	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join my colleague, MP Petronijevic, and Mr. Krasic, who submitted the amendment to Article 93(4). I think that the government's argument given in the report, that for formal reasons, the Constitutional Court decides whether the procedure is in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is not good and that is why the SPS will support Mr Krasic's amendment and will vote for it. I would also like to point out that on behalf of the SPS, I, too, have submitted an amendment to Article 93(1) that speaks of the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted it. First of all, this refers to the decision-making procedure for the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic being initiated by the National Assembly. I just added - to the proposal of one-third of the MPs, which the government respected. I would like to say that the MPs of the SPS have submitted dozens of amendments to the constitutional law proposal, as well as to the other MPs, and that the government has found it appropriate to accept six of the between 70 and 90 amendments submitted. The minister here participates in the debate, and it seems to me that in his capacity as Minister and Proposer, he did not accept any amendments during the debate on the amendments submitted. I think it's our job to consider the bill well. I would also like to point out that, to some members of the constitutional law, MPs of different parliamentary groups have even given the same solutions, which means that MPs are doing their part of the job safely, reading the laws and giving amendments, and all in the sense of getting as high-quality and more content a law as possible. I would also like to point out that it is a member of the 9th. The constitutional law is a precise deadline, the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly, to form the Constitutional Court. We're too late for that. Many things were delayed, in terms of forming a Assembly, building a government, budgeting, we had problems in the socio-economic and overall political sense. Now I would like to point out another fact that we have received from the Government these days a larger set of laws, starting with the law on the President of the Republic, on the election of the President of the Republic, on the budget, on the defence, on the military, on foreign affairs, and we expect, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, to have a set of laws on local self-government. The question is whether this assembly, starting with all this happening to us, exchanges of harsh words and events in Serbia, can we adopt these laws? The SPS has so far been actively involved in the debate on all these issues, pointing to the deadlines and the need to pass these laws, and will actively participate in the coming period, will act in a state-of-the-art manner and support all laws that are not in particular contrary to its views, and all in terms of the country's faster development. I'm just afraid that we'll have enough time to pass these laws, and for that, most of the blame must be borne by the coalition majority, i.e. the current government in the DS, DSS, G17 plus and New Serbia coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11161	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11162	As I was saying, I'm going to try to finally comment on amendments that I didn't participate in the debate with. I just think there might be a misunderstanding here. All the MPs said was law enforcement. The constitution is very clear, on the proposal of one-third of the MPs, the National Assembly decides whether a procedure will be initiated or not. The Rules of Procedure will arrange closer to that procedure, because this is now an institute that is something different from what existed. This provision is put into the bill because of the different situations that can arise in life. For example, on a proposal of one-third, or no matter what number of MPs, the Constitutional Affairs Committee may decide, theoretically, to request the resolution of the President, or the impeachment of the President of the Republic. The President of Parliament can sign one such act. The question arises, what step can the Constitutional Court take if it comes from one who is not authorized, and the National Assembly is empowered, who makes its decisions at meetings and in the manner established by the Rules of Procedure? How will the Constitutional Court be put in this situation? So this is a sort of situation of rejection of the initial act, which exists in all procedures, the lawyers know it. Initial acts shall be rejected when formal assumptions are not met that they may be decided, so that, therefore, the Constitutional Court may be provided with one procedural mechanism to determine that the National Assembly is not in the way that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are arranged to send an initiative to which it is concerned, that is, the decision here. We've put a solution like this, because I think it's completely celery. It is a good place where we can and in principle talk about whether or not there is trust in institutions and how detailed it is that all procedures, or certain things, should be left to the interpretation and decision-making of the body itself, or the decision-making body. It's never possible to prescribe everything by law. The fundamental assumption is that everyone will work by respecting the Constitution and the law, according to their best knowledge and skill, and will make decisions according to their own conscience, so that this provision is only put in place to allow the Constitutional Court to, if ever in the future, appear in a situation that an unauthorized person submits such an initiative, he procedurally responds to such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11163	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11164	Mr. Minister, the Constitution is very clear. Article 118 is very precise. There can't be any dilemma. Anyone who doesn't have authority, the Constitutional Court won't even consider it, and there's no dilemma. Article 118 says, "The President of the Republic is hereby authorised for violation of the Constitution, by decision of the National Assembly, by votes of at least two-thirds of the Members of Parliament." There's no constitutional committee or any other committee. So, at least two-thirds of the MPs. The discharge procedure can be initiated by the National Assembly, on a proposal of at least one third of the MPs, and there is no dilemma. So it's perfectly accurate and clear that the Constitution defines who can initiate the initiative that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. The moment two-thirds of the MPs vote that the president has broken the Constitution, it comes to the Constitutional Court and the job ends. Otherwise, initiatives can probably come to the Constitutional Court, from citizens to some other organisations, but in that case, the Constitutional Court will not even consider it and these things are very simple and precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11165	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11166	Mr. Petrovic, the Constitution is very clear. You tried to innovate something, so you ruined the constitutional provision. What's this about? You have, even here, prejudged some questions that should be strictly in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Now let me explain. You have written in Article 93, paragraph 3, an act to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 1, the President of the National Assembly, delivers it to the Constitutional Court. What kind of act is that? We don't have in the Rules of Procedure regulated this situation. One possible way to regulate the situation is for 84 MPs to write a motion for resolution, to state the legal basis, to state the reasons and to explain it, to be sent to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly at the session finds that this proposal has come and is forwarded to the Constitutional Court. Why the National Assembly? Because in this position of Article 118, the procedure for a solution can be initiated by the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly is, as an organ, the transmission and through it goes to the proposal of one third of the people's capitalists. In this position, you have inserted the president of the National Assembly to deliver it. The president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly and, when representing the National Assembly, he is omitted, restricted to the Rules of Procedure and decisions of the National Assembly. Thus, the National Assembly must conclude that the proposal has come and, by that act of the finding, confirms that all the conditions have been met so that the Constitutional Court can continue to work, and the Constitutional Court is merely considering whether or not it has violated the Constitution of the President of the Republic. You see, when you put these few words into this item four that the amendment applies to, then you can see that it's snowed to see the clues. So, basically, the intention is to abuse in any way, formal, technical reasons, what is the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Never must the constitutional norm go into free improvisation through the provisions of the law. I told you earlier, you even signed that it was in accordance with the Constitution and the law. What law? The law on the President of the Republic does not regulate it, the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic does not regulate it. So they can only regulate the Constitution and constitutional court law. If we want to cut our hair into four pieces, then we can lean here, but all the reasons exist for this amendment to be adopted, because it promotes the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and one solution which, in the end of the day, is not bad. It is possible that one third of the proposal, the National Assembly finds that the proposal has been submitted, forwarded to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court finds that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, and that there are no two-thirds of the votes in the resolution vote. It's a perfectly legitimate situation the Constitution predicts, that's what I have to tell you. Another situation is possible, that the Constitutional Court finds that the President of the Republic did not harm the Constitution, that all the public are buzzing and that it is so obvious. We already have some experience with these initiatives. Let me remind you, in 1993 we wrote amendments to the Law on the President of the SRJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11167	On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras submitted together. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11168	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, our amendment concerns Article 104, this is Chapter 5, and it concerns the execution of acts of the Constitutional Court. The theory of law and legal science knows the whole procedure and other laws concerning the executive procedure and the enforcement of acts by any state authority. There is only one member dedicated to the execution here, who is a squire and very unspeakable. The article reads - state and other bodies, organisations entrusted with public authority, political parties, union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities, are obliged to exercise decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court under their rights and duties. Now Article 2, which we have submitted the amendment -- in the case of need, enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision and resolutions, will be provided by the Government, in a way that has been established by the Constitutional Court's special solution. In our opinion, this is insufficient, vague and unclear, and we have therefore proposed that Article 2 be amended and that it reads: "The implementation of the decision and the decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be provided by the Government through the authority of the State administration, in a manner and within the time limit specified by the Constitutional Court's special decision" and after Article 2 that new positions 3 and 4 should be added, which should read as follows: "In the time-limit set in the position of the 2nd Member, the Government is obliged to deliver notice to the Constitutional Court of Justice of the measures taken to implement the decision or the decision of the Constitutional Court". Item 4. "The Constitutional Court can determine itself an authority that will execute its decision or solution, as well as a way of executing it." We have already stated that procedures and deadlines are a major issue, one of the main objections to this bill. Now we have come to the fact that the execution process itself is unclear and inconclusive, and this is also a major issue with this bill. The government refused our amendment, assessed it as legally possible, but did not accept it. We don't understand why, because the reluctance is unequivocal and clear enough. This is a particularly important issue, with regard to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is the problem of state and other bodies according to these decisions. The existing proposal does not offer an effective mechanism for implementing the Court's decision. The proposal suggests that the Serbian government ensure the application of the decision, in a way that is determined by the Constitutional Court by a special solution. It's a new solution, but it doesn't promise much, because we've already had similar situations. So, similar situations, and now we have the unfinished decisions of other independent bodies, which also have the characteristic of sui generis, which we talked about in the interpretation of previous amendments. For example, the Commissioner for Public Information, whose many decisions have not been made, because the government did not provide it, even in situations where the decision concerns the ministry in the same government. In addition, there is no sanction for the government's failure to act on such a solution to the Constitutional Court. What if the Constitutional Court in its decision orders the Government to execute a certain decision, impose deadlines, and the Government goes deaf about such a decision by the Constitutional Court? What are the sanctions for the government? I haven't seen them in this bill. I'd like someone to explain to me what the further procedure is, if the Government simply decides to obstruct the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision. It is also in this sense that Article 2 and Article 3 should be added after the amended position 2, where it insists on the deadlines and that the Government informs the Constitutional Court of the way and the procedure for the enforcement of its decision. That is why we insist that this amendment be reconsidered and accepted, because it is aimed at the fullness of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11169	Anybody else want a word? (No) On Article 108 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs of Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Stankovic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11170	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman, in Article 110, under our proposal, paragraph 1 is amended and reads - The Constitutional Court will fine between 250,000 and millions of dinars for the violation of the organisation, or another legal person, if it does not deliver to the Constitutional Court the contested General Act and the necessary documentation and provide information and information of importance for the conduct of the proceedings and decision-making and, secondly, if it does not provide the Constitutional Court with the necessary information and notices of importance for the conduct of the proceedings and for decision-making. The LDP considers that the Constitutional Court should be given explicit legal authority to impose criminal penalties. If the Constitutional Court is left without such a mechanism, there is a danger that regular misdemeanor procedures are not being initiated, or that they are being conducted extremely rarely. Such an unacceptable situation already exists in the application of criminal provisions of many other laws. On this occasion, I would remind you of the law on free access to information of public importance. Such a provision would, in the opinion of the LDP parliamentary group, further raise the authority of the Constitutional Court in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like the minister to explain why you didn't accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11171	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11172	It's another amendment to this same article. In Article 110, following Article 4, a new position 5 is added, which reads: 'The Constitutional Court will fine between 250,000 and 1,000,000 dinars to punish the responsible person of the Government if, within a special solution, the Constitutional Court does not provide a notice of the measures taken to ensure the execution of the decision or of the Constitutional Court's solution. ''The LDP, that is, our MP club, believes that the Constitutional Court should be given explicit legal authority to impose criminal penalties and in relation to the failure of the responsible person of the Government to deliver a solution to the measures taken to ensure the execution of a decision or a solution to the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court were to be left without such a mechanism, we believe that there is a danger that the Government is not carrying out its obligations, or that it does not ensure that the Constitutional Court's decisions are carried out. Such an unacceptable situation already exists in the recently mentioned Law on free access to information of public importance and, indeed, I ask the Minister to make a statement on both of our proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11173	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 111 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 114. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were here this morning to hear the debate of the MPs of the Rules of Procedure. It is an absolute right of the MPs and every time I am surprised to hear the chairman try to intervene, to prevent the MPs from speaking in the Rules of Procedure. It was heard about everything, whether Miskovic was a criminal or not, whether Djelic was supposed to open Miskovic's mall or not, on whose orders Ceda co-operated and whether he co-operated with the 'earth clan', what Verica Barac said, whether Miskovic was a monopoliest or not. There are a lot of questions and we didn't want to, and we don't want to engage in this debate that way, but we certainly expect the authorities to investigate this for the rest of the investigation, that we really know what this is about. Why am I bringing this up? Because it is said here, first of all, for the sake of the public of Serbia, I want to point out one false thing, which is that General Krstic in The Hague is convicted of genocide. That's not true. No Serb has been convicted in The Hague tribunal for genocide. The fact that General Krstic is convicted of aiding genocide, and no one is convicted of genocide, only talks about what the UN tribunal's intentions are and how it is, according to a co-worker, the schizoid The Hague tribunal. The second question, which no one has asked here, and I find it interesting, is where Mr. Miroslav Miskovic got those five million marks he said he gave to Cedi Jovanovic when he took part in his abduction. This is a question that would be interesting, that is, the answer to that question. Now about the amendment. To Article 114. I've submitted an amendment to the bill. Before I go on to explain the amendments, I must remind myself, first of all, for the sake of the public and the fact of how serious the unserious majority in this House is, that we have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on which amendments of the MPs should be accepted and which they are not, and that opinion we received on 14 November this year. A day later, on November 15th, the committee responsible for the judiciary and administration, of course, by decision of the assembly majority, also made a decision on which amendments the Assembly and the government should accept, which they do not. What's very symptomatic of me is that these two reports are completely identical, that they don't differ in any single amendment. It is amazing that the MPs are thinking exactly the same as the government. And, if there was wisdom on that committee, at least as far as the majority of the assembly, you could have at least one more amendment, past those proposed by the government, to suggest that it be adopted, or, at least, for one of those proposed by the Government to say that it should not be adopted. The two reports only talk about what Serbian radicals have long been saying is the majority of the assembly, and since 2000, in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By no means, ladies and gentlemen, to learn that the situation is reversed, that the MPs, that the Assembly chooses the Government, that it is the Assembly that can call off the Government, that it is the Assembly that should reprove its minister, even if it was a minister who is supported by the majority of the assembly. You are, in this way, transparently showing that the congregation bodies are only working formally, only to support what we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then you are telling us that the assembly work should be transferred to committees and that it is completely irrelevant why there are 20 or 30 MPs in the Government, because according to the Rules of Procedure, which you have adopted in the DOS, there can be only one who is chairing and one MP who wants to talk about the agenda point or the Rules of Procedure, anyway, in any case, to speak as a National MP. When you brought such a Rules of Procedure, you justified it by the fact that the seat of work of the Assembly would be transferred to congregation committees. If this is what this Committee of Justice and Administration has shown, then, thank you very much, we really don't need such work and we don't want to participate in such irresponsible and irresponsible work. Article 114. The bill, in paragraph 2, shows - the right to compensation, these are transitional and final provisions, the right to compensation of the salary of Article 1 of this article may be extended for an additional six months if, in that time, the judge whose office has ceased to be entitled to retirement. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, reads: "The right to pay the salary ends before the six-month period if the judge to whom the post has ceased to have a working relationship or is entitled to a pension, and may be extended for another six months if in those six months he is entitled to retire." This amendment is absolutely in line with all the regulations and what is contained in the amendment applies to all officials in the state of Serbia. There's no reason not to refer to the judges of the Constitutional Court. I have a very interesting argument from the government which is why this amendment of mine has not been accepted. It has been said, for the reasons set out in the amendment of MP Paja Momchilov to article 21. Now, I ask you to listen carefully to the government's explanation, so if anyone understands, I will be grateful to him to explain to me what the government is trying to say. It is said: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason it is believed that the solution is referred to in Article 21. The bill is more precise." Mr Petrovic, yesterday or the day before when I made a remark to you, you said that what you are behind and what comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is passing and lecturing. Was this text at the lecturer's? I really don't understand what it means to not accept 'the reason is the opinion'. If I were to guess, I wouldn't, because I want to comment on what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wrote. Why do I think it is very important for this amendment to be adopted, in addition to what is stated in the explanation of the amendments and what I have already said – that it applies to all officials and that this is the only legal solution? You know, there may be a situation in practice, in life, that the judge is running out of time, now it's talking about judges in the first place, it's important that I read it too, so I pointed out that the transitional and final provisions are at stake. The Constitutional Court judge has been elected in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to which his office ends, has the right to pay six months' wages, at the height of the Constitutional Court's salary. So these judges who have stopped function, or will cease function, can, within six months, or within a short period, establish a working relationship and then cannot receive a salary. They can retire, but they can't just retire, Mr. Minister, but they can't go into disability and retirement after work, and they can still be less than six months old and they can't receive both salary and pension. I don't know which of these conditions could apply to Slobodan Vučetic, who, as we hear here, and you, Mr Petrovic, have said that you gave the case to be investigated and investigated, has been paid by the President of the Constitutional Court since December of last year. Even if we add, not to shorten that six-month period, but to add up what you predicted and what, otherwise, exists as a possibility, if that's a condition for retirement, that six more months of officials can be extended to pay, so, if we consider it, he's gone over again. Today someone here asked if it was a crime. Of course it is a crime. Now the question of all these decisions signed by Slobodan Vučetic, how much can we, as citizens of Serbia, rely on the decisions of the Constitutional Court and how much can we say, is the Constitutional Court's decision and it obliges us all, because we know that we must be bound by it. Imagine, we are bound by the Constitutional Court decision signed by Slobodan Vučetic, a man who has allowed himself to receive more than a year's salary from the President of the Constitutional Court - in Serbia who does not have a Constitutional Court!? That's amazing. Then, this same Slobodan Vučetic, and I said that the other day, I like to repeat that it is heard, the other day, this Mr. Vučetic, in a newspaper, wrote a column in which he allowed himself to interpret the Rules of Procedure and claimed that MPs had no rights and opportunities to use an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that, according to him, it is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that it is an obstruction of Parliament's work, etc. The constitution of this Rules of Procedure that we are working on was the subject of the Constitutional Court at a time when Mr. Vučetic was president, so I'm surprised that these two provisions were not declared unconstitutional and illegal if he didn't think they could be applied. Furthermore, as the former Constitutional Court judge, with the current salary of the Constitutional Court judge, he should and should know that every act, even if it is illegal, and these provisions are not illegal, but every act, even if it is illegal, is applied until the moment until the Constitutional Court declares it illegal and unconstitutional. It is truly surprising not knowing the rights of Mr. Slobodan Vučetic. It wouldn't be our problem that he doesn't know the right, but it's a very worrying fact, precisely because, as President of the Constitutional Court, he burned and burned, which he was the one who determined what was in accordance with the Constitution in Serbia, which is not, and what is in accordance with the law and what is not. Now I ask you, fellow MPs, to ask the citizens of Serbia, and first of all, the competent judicial authorities, will Mr. Slobodan Vučetic answer because of who knows how much damage you have done to the citizens of Serbia because of their decisions that were not in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, which were arbitrary because he did make such decisions? You remember many decisions discussed in this Parliament, regardless of what, of course, as a lawyer, knows that the Constitutional Court's decision is binding and that it cannot be commented. In any case, this would be interesting for a serious legal debate, whether the decisions signed by Slobodan Vučetic can be legitimate and legal, if he has been committing a crime for more than a year, stealing money from Serbian citizens. Dear Serbian citizens, you are paying a high salary to Slobodan Vučetic, who was the president of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and for more than a year it has not; his pension is less than his salary, and whether he is receiving a pension, we do not know. Mr. Dusan Petrovic has promised to examine all this and to inform the public about it. Because I'm afraid Mr. Petrovic won't forget, I'm asking him this as a parliamentary question and I'm looking for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11175	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? The word has a minister, Mr Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11176	The proposal was intended to formulate as accurately as possible a sensitive issue, which is always important when it comes to persons performing important tasks for the country and when it is necessary to regulate their status from the moment their function ceases. Because of this precise editing of this issue, the proposal also uses the term "age pension". It is my opinion, and I will accept the amendment on behalf of the Government, as well as the amendment that Paja Momchilov has submitted to Article 21, that no serious difficulties can arise in interpreting this provision if the general concept is used in relation to the one that is special. If the term "retirement" enters into the law, instead of "old-age pension," it will not create difficulties in application. On the other hand, I agree that in the part that speaks of the right to pay this kind of salary, if conditions are obtained, that is to say, the right not only to an age pension, but also to other forms of pension, that it is necessary and unmistakable to shut down such a right. I accept this amendment of yours and, as I said, an amendment to article 21 submitted by Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11177	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 117. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Dusan Petrovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to, at the end of the debate in particular and finally debate the Constitutional Court law, to show satisfaction over that part of the debate that was led to the essence of the matter. Parliament is a political body and of course there are always other issues and topics. It is a matter that is an integral part of political and parliamentary life. What is quite obvious and clear, all the parliamentary groups, a large number of MPs have put forth a great deal of effort to make this debate, in its essential part, very substantial. The amendments that the government accepted and which I subsequently accepted as a proposing representative, I said, and I will not comment again. I won't even comment on those amendments I was talking about in the debate. When we recapitulate everything, I think a large number of very important issues have been opened here and we have had the opportunity to hear very different views, which, on the one hand, are legal-technical, and on the other hand are both essential and show different views and different views that individual participants had in the debate. We started from what kind of public it is necessary to allow, in whole, where there is a measure of public limitations in the work of the Constitutional Court. I think that the bill provides a quite good answer, that it is important that the participants in the procedure are protected, so that, regardless of whether there is any reason to exclude the public, or not to hold a public debate, it is possible for participants to have access to all the facts, that they can be informed of all the elements and all the details of this procedure and, in this way, have the opportunity to represent their views and their interests in the very important procedures that are being conducted before the Constitutional Court of Justice. We also had a debate about how judges of the Constitutional Court should perform in public, whether the law should or should not restrict their right. I think that's where we heard different views, which are, of course, legitimate. The government, with its draft law, has held that, on the one hand, it is necessary to define very clearly the case of a court case which should not, and if this law is adopted, not even to be subject to public comment by the Constitutional Court judges, that it is not good to prevent them from participating fully in public life, and, on the other hand, that, with regard to the cases decided by judges of the Constitutional Court, bound by this law, and that they will not have the right, even after the completion of those proceedings, to comment on the decisions they have made. We had a very serious debate and how precise it takes to define the procedure before the Constitutional Court. I remain in my view that in all the procedures that have been appointed, since the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the law, the legality of other general legal acts, we have a procedure. I don't think that's controversial. The same applies to international contracts and other procedures. The truth is that we have had the Institute of Constitutional Appeals in our constitutional tradition until now, but in a completely different form. It was essentially a right with a narrow scope but a right to be established when this law enters into force. That right will not be established, it is established by the Constitution, but it will be colloktimal, so to speak, operationalized. After the entry into force of this law, Serbian citizens will be able to request by constitutional appeal from the Constitutional Court to determine whether there is a violation of rights or freedom, as said. It is particularly important here to once again point out the right to a constitutional appeal when citizens feel that their right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time. For this reason, I think it was very important that we leave broad possibilities to the Constitutional Court to define the procedures they will be acting on. I believe that the Constitutional Court will take advantage of this possibility, if the law is passed, and will have a rich legal practice, which will also help those who apply the right in regular court proceedings and the regulation of our public life, and that Serbia will take a few steps forward in this way, to become a more legally regulated state than it is now. It is also open to the question whether it is necessary by law to establish that in the process of electing the Constitutional Court judges, an opinion of the circuit assembly will be obtained. There are several reasons why the government could not accept such a solution. These solutions, above all, stem from clearly laid constitutional provisions. This is not the jurisdiction of the circuit assembly. If things were otherwise arranged by the Constitution, I don't think we would, on such occasions as they are, when the state is fighting a great battle to preserve its territory and its state sovereignty, at this point we wouldn't have the opportunity to obtain such opinions from the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija, so we stayed at the point of view that we had. We've also been having a debate about whether or not it's necessary for the Constitutional Court judges to take an oath. The government's view is that there is no reason for the Constitutional Court judges to have a different position than other senior state officials and that, if the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, judges, it is natural for the Constitutional Court judges to do so. Once again, I want to completely break all the doubts that exist about the official use of language and letter. The Constitutional Court, however, like all state authorities in our country, is obliged to use the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. The use of other languages and letters is governed by law. Any citizen can use whatever letter he wants, Latinly, to address state authorities in a way that the submissions are understandable. On the other hand, the state authorities are obliged to ensure that each party in the proceedings has the possibility to exercise its rights and unless they know the language of which the court is acting, so that there is no dilemma for the public whether or not they can address the Constitutional Court. So the answer to this question is quite clear, he's confirmed. We had a few open questions. I don't even have to go into them specifically, but I want to say the point I was already talking about. Serious efforts have been made to offer alternative legal-technical opportunities, which sometimes refer to only one word, sometimes to syntagms, to different views that MPs had on individual terms used in the law. There's something I've said about all of this and it's for the MPs of the common knowledge. Lawmaking is a very complex procedure. If circumstances were different, the Constitutional Court law would have been in operation for more than a year, perhaps, even two years. We have very clear legal obligations, we have a political need for this law to come into force as soon as possible and to enter into life. Of course, his work took a little while, but, no matter what, the making of this law has gone through all the stages through which the laws go through. We had a very wide public discussion. We had opinions from different experts, both domestic and foreign. We had a situation that everyone who made it relevant, therefore, to an important legal public, had the opportunity to speak their opinions on this law on the Round Table which was organised on 8 August, by being exposed to this law on the website of the Government, or at the Justice Ministry site, so it was available to anyone who was interested in these issues and these topics. When we naturally, therefore, essentially came to the provisions that were later translated into the draft, and then in the proposal of this law, then, of course, we also carried out language expertise and we really had a lecture. I'll say something about how the comments were made on the amendments. After that, the law passed all the institutions in the government. So the ministries gave their opinion and, of course, the Legislative Secretariat, who took care of the compliance of this, as well as all other laws, with our entire legal system, gave its opinion. This is why these, otherwise, praise the valuable initiatives, which gave other views on some legal-technical terms, the government of the Republic of Serbia was not in a position to accept, but other terms proposed by law. There's been a debate here, and I think we've had a misunderstanding about Article 34. It is the deadlines within which the Constitutional Court, at the time when it decides to launch the initiative, shall request further information from the authority whose legality of the decision is being examined. I don't think there's any concern that anyone could be in danger. Otherwise, it was asked to extend this deadline. There is no need, therefore, to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but only to deliver all the important facts relating to the adoption of the rules that are being challenged, so I think the deadline proposed in the law is quite satisfactory. Two places have opened a debate on whether or not the Court should be bound by the requirements of those who initiate the procedure. The government, or promoter, had one look at the matter, and MPs had different views. I will once again point out that when it comes to the assessment of the constitutionality of the law and the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general legal acts, the Constitutional Court, in our opinion, should not be bound by a proposal to initiate the procedure. This is not about whether the Constitutional Court can appreciate the constitutionality and legality of some norms for which no assessment of constitutionality and legality is required. Of course he can't. It is about the reasons - whether or not the Constitutional Court should be linked to the reasons given by the proposer as its view of reasons for unconstitutional and illegality. We remain at the point that the Constitutional Court should have one broader, let me say, maneuvering space, although I am fully aware of the provision proposed by this law - that according to official duty, the Constitutional Court has the opportunity to initiate this procedure only if 10 judges, so two-thirds of the total number of judges make such a decision. On the other hand, when it comes to the constitutional appeal, we believe that the Constitutional Court must be bound by a constitutional appeal. I understand here a lot of the grizzly things that have been given. They are, in a good sense, more political than legal, because it is very important to give citizens a broad opportunity to receive judicial protection, there the Constitution and the law provide. I want to point out once again that this is a very special and specific legal remedy. It is used either when there are no other legal medicines, or when other legal medicines are completely exhausted, or if the right to trial is violated within a reasonable period and the Constitutional Court, which we expect will be under great pressure, due to a large number of procedures that will be initiated in this way, should have the possibility to deal only with those cases that are fully focused and defined, that it does not deal with the investigation of illegality beyond what the constitutional appeal requires. These illegalities can be material and legal, they can be procedural and legal. If we were to turn the Constitutional Court into a Court of Appeal, I think it would prove very quickly that neither physically nor functionally possible to achieve the essence of that, I think it is quite clear and there is a consensus on what should be achieved by constitutional appeal. One interesting legal question is open here. In the proceedings before regular courts, since the law applied the wording "judgment will stop", and Mr Krasic made it very clear that the court - judge is an individual or a court- over, the court in the sense of the provision of this law, opened the question whether a judge, if an individual or a court-law is greater, is addressing as a motion to the Constitutional Court, or whether it is necessary by law to establish that the President of the Court is authorized to ask the Constitutional Court to decide whether there is an unconstitutional or illegality, or whether there is an agreement with the Constitution or law. My opinion is that we would be very serious about the independence of the judge, i.e. the judiciary, if the President of the Court would be empowered to initiate these proceedings. I'm going to remind you, and I think that's a well-known thing, that judges are bound exclusively by the Constitution, by law and by their belief. If the President of the Court were to be given the opportunity to ask, instead of judges, for the Constitutional Court to assess constitutionality and legality, the President of the Court would, in fact, be empowered to interfere in a very special, specific way with individual court cases, which I do not think is in line with the fundamental rules and principles on which our legal system was established. About Article 91, it is true that when it comes to the constitutional appeal filed by public institutions, which are, above all, the province's autonomy and local self-government, a separate title for this issue. In the Constitutional Court Act, the procedure governing the proceedings where municipalities and municipal authorities, cities and authorities of cities, the circuit assembly, the executive larger provinces, the secretariats and other regional authorities are able to rise up with a constitutional appeal, it is determined that it will only be applied, or that it will be applied accordingly to members to whom a constitutional appeal is arranged when persons have the right, therefore, when citizens have the right to address the Constitutional Court. For this legal and technical reason, we have decided not to use a special title, so that we do not burden the text, and we do not feel that it is lost to the clarity of the regulation itself. Dear colleague Milena Stankovic, I want to answer. I understand the intensity the motionor has defined to submit this amendment. We believe that it is not all-consistencies to be placed in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court to deal with a misdemeanor procedure. If this amendment had been made in a slightly different way and provided for the possibility of giving a procedural sentence, because such procedural penalties exist in all proceedings, in litigation, in criminal and other cases, it would be an option that we could debate and find a way to involve it in this text. Indeed, I don't think there's any room or opportunity for the Constitutional Court to remain in this part, quite specific, and a misdemeanor court, but we'll leave it to the law enforcement authorities to deal with determining responsibility for these situations. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to thank you all once again. I think we've all come closer together to passing laws that will make our country a more legally regulated country than it has ever been, that finally, after more than a year, we'll all be together in an opportunity for the Constitutional Court to resolve many of the dilemmas that are opening up in our public life, in our political life and in our legal life. So I'm asking you to vote for the Constitutional Court Act. I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the amendments I accepted on behalf of the Government, although they were not given a favourable opinion by the Justice Committee. I think in a day or two, when it's voting day, if this law gets the necessary majority and when it goes into effect, we'll be one step forward to bringing ourselves and our country into a state where citizens have the opportunity to fight for themselves and their families and that we're the country that will find a way and a way to make opportunities in it, in a very short time, the way we all want them, which is to be one part of Europe, not just geographically, but essentially, because we all deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11179	I thank Mr Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Justice in the Republic of Serbia. I thank him for his participation in this part of the session, thus showing how he should be the minister who comes to the Assembly and the justice of his laws. I thank him and his associate once again. I also ask other ministers to look up to Mr Petrovic. I hereby conclude the examination of the Constitutional Court's draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Thank you for your afternoon session. I'm finishing the morning session. The session will continue at 3:00, item 4 of the agenda - Asylum and Amendment Act. [[After break, 15, 05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. The fourth item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AZIL You received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Jadranko Vuković, Milovan Radovanović, Momir Marković, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Bozidar Koprivica, Slavko Jerković, Dejan Mirović, Petar Jojić, Natasa Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarević, Vjerica Radeta, Veroljub Arsić, Lidija Vukićić, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Martinović, Jovan Daja, Srboljub Živanovic, Nikola Vukelić, Dragoljub Anasovski, Bozidar Delić, Ivana Zečević, Mileta Poskurica, Milorad Buh, Dragan Čolić, Paja Momčič, Milan Škrčić, Goran Cvetanović, Zvetanović, Zdravić, Zjeljkopalić and Vrstkobalić Švrštić as well and Vlašt. Mičić. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. 'As the National Assembly carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to Article 1. The proposal for an asylum law, in Article 1, says: "This law prescribes the principles, conditions and procedures for obtaining and stopping asylum, as well as the position, rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum and persons who are recognised the right of asylum in the Republic of Serbia. ''We propose that Article 1 be amended and read as follows: 'This law prescribes the principles, conditions and procedures for the recognition of asylum and the granting of temporary protection, status, rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum, asylum seekers and foreigners who are granted temporary protection, as well as the conditions and procedures for the abolition of the status of asylum seekers and for the suspension of the temporary protection of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia'. The explanation of this amendment is – the SRS believes it is necessary for the proposed member to be changed for reasons in Article 1. The bill does not cover one of the basic principles - temporary protection, as well as the conditions and procedures for the abolition of asylum and for the suspension of the temporary protection of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment comprehensively covers all principles relating to the procedure for the recognition of asylum and the approval of temporary protection, status, rights and obligations of asylum seekers, asylum seekers and foreigners granted temporary protection, as well as the conditions and procedure for the abolition of asylum status and for the suspension of the temporary ban on the protection of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. International Comparative Law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, sets out in its principles the principles contained in the proposed amendment of the SRS MPs, as the SRS pays exceptional attention to the principles of international law relating to the rights of persons seeking to gain asylum rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11182	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Mrs. Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11183	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure say that members of the government, the authorised representatives of other lawmakers and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who are calling the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. We have no information that the president of the National Assembly has called any other persons, but in the proposal for an asylum law, we have seen that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been authorised as minister, Mr Dragan Jocic. Let me remind you that today, unusually, we had a break in work of one and a half hours instead of one hour, as predicted by the Rules of Procedure, because it was expected that Mr. Jocic would appear here at 15 hours. Since Mr. Jocic didn't show up, when we waited for him for an hour and a half, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I suggest you interrupt this session, ask the service to check where Mr. Jocic is, if he intends to come, when he will come and talk to him about the amendments. You saw today, in the afternoon, that Mr Petrovic's presence produced that he had accepted some amendments from the SRS MPs, regardless of what we had the government's opinion, as we now have the government's opinion on our amendments, which is not disputed. The gentlemen sitting in the front row certainly participated very actively in the draft law and in the assessment of amendments, and I have no doubt that they would be ready to convey to Mr Jocic all the details, but we do not accept that we are talking about amendments in the absence of a minister who is the only one in charge to communicate with the MPs on behalf of the Government about our amendments. So, you heard the suggestion and don't, Mr. Mr. Gristle, violate the Rules of Procedure. He's been broken enough that, I repeat, we've had a half-hour break longer than usual, because we expected Mr. Jocic. Here, and after so many extended breaks, he's gone. I'm sorry, he'll have to show up if you want us to keep working on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11184	I agree with the People's Parliament, Mrs. Verice Radet. We're about to get information on the minister, but I suggest we keep working. It won't take long. I hope he'll be here soon. Anyone else want a word on the amendment of MP Jadranka Vukovic? Here you go. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, relating to Article 1, I must say that, basically, this member should be extended to certain elements relating to the types of asylum. It is a practice in European countries, especially in highly developed European countries, where we have the presence of both political immigrants and economic and social emigrants. They separate them, so, by that concept, we should work too. We, in particular, did not have such an amendment, but I suggest that, within this first article of the bill, we install certain elements relating to this and we build the text itself upon the types of asylum and the way in which we acquire and exercise rights based on each type of asylum. In modern European practice we have several types of asylum, one refers to political, the other – to economic, then we have social and humanitarian. It would be good for the legislator to consider my initiative to separate it and, in particular, for every kind of asylum I have listed here, we have different conditions for obtaining the right to asylum. The process itself is different in the case of political, relative to this second, socio-economic vision of asylum. In addition, in the very proposal for a law, in other members, we would have to develop all the elements that are relevant for the conditions of political asylum, as well as economic and social and humanitarian conditions for asylum, along with the time period of asylum, the rights arising from all kinds of asylum and all that is important in the administrative process of each type of asylum.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11186	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Minister were here, we would really try, we are prepared to take an argument to participate in the debate on amendments submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. We would convince him that, in public view, or rejects our argument to withdraw this law from the procedure, or to accept all amendments, or that, as Mr. Buha said, he is seriously moving away from the first member, from defining what it is, in fact, asylum. The amendment of fellow Vukovic, which we are discussing, is the essence of which we are starting and if you follow closely, as the debate moves along, we will have the opportunity to talk about some purely technical matters. Please pay attention to that. I don't even know how much you followed the parallel practice of other countries, did you see how in our environment, in the EU countries, which has conditioned, because of the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, to adopt such an asylum law, but it is a set law in the right sense of words. It is not, essentially, applicable to Serbia and to what Mr. Buha was talking about, because we have very different cases of asylum seekers. You can't talk about economic or political asylumists in Serbia, as they exist in some other Western European countries, that world that doesn't care about anything other than taking away Kosovo and Metohija and destroying us, making us fate the way they plotted it, what you can see based on the latest information that comes from Brussels and, in general, from the centre of power, which is about telling us what we need to do and how we should do. Please take this fundamental amendment seriously, it is the beginning of the whole story of colleague Vukovic. If we, in relation to international parallel law and based on conventions that already exist, i.e. Based on this clear statement in the first position of the member, proposed by counterpart Vukovic, we do not define what asylum is for us here, in Serbia, then it is pointless to talk further. Then we can refrain, indeed, from that law of the SRJ that regulated the status of asylum seekers, namely government regulations and other laws that regulate the status of our unfortunate countrymen, refugees and exiled persons, who had to leave their territories. We are prepared to discuss this in a very clear and reasoned way. How important it is for every country to have a serious asylum law, the example of Switzerland tells you. I'll talk about it later, when my amendment comes to the agenda, in a few more sentences. In that country, the status of asylum seekers is and, in general, the concept of asylum and the acquisition of asylum – a problem for their society, since they are the country ahead of the number of foreign persons who thus seek permanent stay in the developed Western European country. They even went there because their constitution allows, of course, such a statement is possible under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, although we do not advocate, that, with a referendum, every citizen of Switzerland last September, gave his vote for or against. Their law is quite restrictive, but if you look at the provisions of the Swiss asylum law, if you look at the laws of the countries in the environment, the former Socialist republics, you'll see that and how different the situation of asylum seekers is there and the situation that we have here. We cannot bring in refugees under asylum in Serbia who must have different treatment than what the promoter is asking. That is why it is necessary, if you are still there, fellow Mrkonjic, yes, it is, to immediately insist that Minister Jocic come and convince him to accept some of these amendments, although I think that this law has been done very quickly by the authorities and that you would have to withdraw him from the procedure. Each of these members requires much more attention, much better explanation, if you want to pass a law that will last. Obviously, it will have to happen that after the next elections, the SRS will immediately change this law, as many others will have to put out of force. Then tell the citizens of Serbia that you are doing Sisif's work and that the law will be applicable and binding, but that it is not an appropriate situation, first of all, to the position of the refugees living in our country's territory, exiled from their centuries-old hearths, fleeing under the Ustasha knife, unfortunately, in the country's war of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11188	We've taken steps to get in touch with the minister. He promised he'd come and I'll keep you posted on a regular basis. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word on the amendment submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 1, as proposed, does not contain entirely matter that needs to regulate temporary protection, especially asylum seekers, and the approval of temporary protection. Provisional protection should be regulated and defined in Article 1, and it has been left out because this temporary protection is one of the principles. That is why the MP, Mr Vukovic, has explained this article and we believe that now, as our amendment is proposed, it is absolutely acceptable, because it does, in a comprehensive way, define the matter that needs to be regulated. There is no principle that would have been left out and that, in this way, it would be subject to the full application of the law, especially when it comes to the recognition and approval of temporary protection, because this law, in its provisions, subsequently regulates temporary protection. This temporary protection must also be defined in Article 1 to be within all other principles. That is why we consider it necessary to amend this article. It was updated by the SRS amendment because it regulates this matter in the right way and covers all cases where a number of citizens or individuals will be found to exercise their right. That is why we call on the Home Secretary to come to the National Assembly and that is how we can discuss it. This way we have no one to have a dialogue with. We have no one to address, we have no one to address as the MPs, to tell us what the government thinks, what the minister thinks, in relation to certain provisions and proposals made by the SRS, and these proposals are directed in this direction to build up this law and thus be done tomorrow in practice and applied, that no one suffers damage and that total protection be given to all those who find themselves in a situation where millions of citizens, Serbs, who have been expelled from Republika Srpska, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Croatia and Kosovo and Metohija. So all citizens who have found themselves in this situation can also be found in the status of temporary protection. This temporary protection may have been lagging behind, but it can be corrected and complemented at this point, so that the law is fully applicable in this part.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11190	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the minister is not here, because of the explanations we will give regarding this Article 5, for the amendment amending Article 5, which is said to be the competent authorities of Article 5. 19, 20 and 21 of this law co-operate with the UNHCR in carrying out its activities in accordance with its mandate. It is clearly explained that this amendment sets out exactly what the competent authorities who can co-operate with the UNHCR in the implementation of its activities, only and exclusively with its mandate and the regulations governing its mandate. Why is this extremely important? Because we are witnesses, and unfortunately, we have bad experience with both organisations and representatives of the United Nations, from high representatives to the various commissions that have been doing this country; practically, their task has been to do us harm. With this, precisely, we are putting UNHCR in a position to co-operate only with those authorities that are responsible for asylum and with no other authorities. I'm going to tell you the example that happened to us a few days ago, when an NGO visited Serbia, visited special care institutions distracted by development, and after that, more or less, we had the opportunity for the whole world to be filled with information about how human rights are being violated in Serbia. We simply have a very bad experience with all the organizations, because they're given room to work outside the area for which they're in charge. This is exactly what we're doing, so we're not denying anything, we're giving them the opportunity to work, but only with the organs that are responsible for this. This makes it impossible for our country to do harm, because the fact is that, since the decomposition began, in the 1990s, the former state, Serbia, in terms of refugees, the area where the largest number of refugees have arrived, which is assumed to be another wave of refugees, because of what is happening in the Kim and the fact that the world has done nothing, that the UN High Office is practically doing nothing when it comes to Serbs. They will try to do something for everyone else, but when it comes to Serbs, they simply don't care. That is why we have proposed this amendment, to limit precisely what cases and who they can cooperate with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11192	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we Serbian radicals began, in the 1990s, and the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, to speak, and from this assembly booth, and in every place, that the role of certain international organisations is dangerous, certainly we thought of the UNHCR and their timing, in space across Serbian countries, especially here in Serbia, but above all, in Republika Srpska. I believe that later on, he will say something about it, although he spoke a lot, Mr. Buha himself, but let's remind you, especially you from the parties you exercise power, as the Republika Srpska Krajina, the western Serbian state is formed. It was a legitimate authority, with the elected president, with the elected government, which, unfortunately, is now in exile and whose President, Mr. Buha, is our distinguished colleague sitting in the assembly benches. So she had her parliament and was a sub-territory, and that was Serbian territory under the protection of the UN and UNHCR. At that time, politicians without any credibility, and they declared themselves to be some opposition, and the only opposition to the then Milosevic regime was Vojislav Seselj and his SRS, and at all times were ready to protect both the UN and this organisation, and all that they did, with our warning that the first moment and first signal that came from America and the Western forces would be used to escape, which, of course, they did, they left the unprotected population. They were never interested in Serbs, nor as people who lived there, and now, unfortunately, they can't do it on their territory, nor now, when they're in refugee status. I have to ask you, colleagues from the DS, DSS and G17 plus, do you travel along the Belgrade-Nish highway, say, do you meet those UNHCR vehicles and do you happen to be in one of these three lanes, in one direction or in another, you have to get away right away, because they go as the most arrogant vehicle that can appear; these are like armored vehicles, jeeps that are blinded and have those big antennas, which at any time protect both drivers and anyone who is in those cars?- I'm sorry. Please tell me, did they, having such protection measures, do anything at any of these refugee centres, and before that, where there was a really desperate situation, in the Matarusk Bane, say Mrs. Radeta, who repeatedly visited that collective refugee center? Tell me, please, she will tell you, have these people, for all this time since they've seen the representatives of the UNHCR, even so they go and behave so arrogantly? I must remind you of an even more drastic fact, that such a vehicle has killed a representative of the executive authority of the Republic of Macedonia, and that no one has been held accountable, the defence minister. Therefore, it is truly amazing that you do not accept the amendment of counterpart Krasic, who clearly says we must limit the functioning of UNHCR and any international organisation that comes into the sovereign territory of the Republic of Serbia. Is it you who put it in? 19, 20 and 21, which are the bodies under the asylum law that take responsibility for the implementation of all these provisions of the law. So, the asylum office, the asylum commission, the asylum center. This opens the space for their uninterrupted still functioning, which they do, with various, so-called. NGOs, so the help they should receive, which is reportedly coming from the UN, Serbs who have been exiled from their hearths do not get, but very often this aid ends by reselling individuals who have become rich at it. Of course, everyone has to keep an eye on what he's going to do and how he lives now, how he works, and that's how he's going to be. When someone is rich in the torment of others, he has to make sure that he takes care of it eventually. So, just out of scope, from the bitter experience we have, we're asking you to accept this amendment. If you wanted to regulate the situation of asylum seekers in our country by one special law, and you confused the concepts of this exile, or the evading of faces, which we will talk about later, when these members come to the agenda, then, nicely, gentlemen, limit yourself to who can cooperate with them. Anyway, our country's as infested as Swiss cheese and here it's doing whatever it is it wants. When I enter the National Assembly building or anywhere else, about the government not to speak, this distinguished gentleman is someone who works at the MUP, but I believe, when he comes to work in the morning and enters the elevator, that he hears those who speak English or some other language, who do what he wants, they don't account for anyone. It's been happening to us since October 5th. These are the ones that are located, and they move unhindered and in the building of the National Assembly. Nice, legally we're going to fix it, as the serious states do, so let's see who those "gifts" are, and we should also comply with the laws of this country for every violation of our own, possibly, abuse. We know from these organs of art. 19, 20 and 21, that they have violated their powers and that they do not work in accordance with the law proposed by the Resolute Ministry. If you want the state to go in a good direction and that we Serbs and other citizens of Serbia, who live here, have sovereign authority in our territory, don't just put us on track, because you've been doing it all these years, and before you came to power, and you've talked about how radicals spread, to God, and Vojislav Seselj, some conspiracy theory. You saw we were right. What led to the unwitting bombing of our nation and country, which lasted 78 days? Because it's made-up, so-called. humanitarian disaster. Who sent these reports to the centres of power that decided, both the State Department and the Western military alliance, and everywhere they advocated the bombing of the Serbian state and its people? Take care of it, we know it, and colleagues who were members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we who have started to participate in its work since this year. Both Radeta counterpart and counterpart Donka Banovic are members of the Committee on Migration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There was a resolution on several occasions, a report on the situation of refugees, one such -- in June of this year, on the situation of refugees in the Balkans. We had to write amendments and our delegation was as complex as possible in this regard. There's some kind of Balkan war going on. They don't know what was going on and that Serbs were expelled from their hearths, so they're speaking in a preamble of one of those resolutions, not to mention the fact that they're incorrect data. Who are you that delivers reports and data? Our Commissioner for Refugees. But who do they trust more? International organisations, such as this branch, or UNHCR, which is a UN body. Therefore, for our own sake, because of the future of this country and the fact that we must safeguard what is ours and that we here regulate the rights and position of every man and citizen, to accept these solutions, because they are the only indication that we will stick to what is prescribed by the Constitution, what is prescribed by the laws and what should be done by the competent state authorities. International agreements, conventions, agreements, co-operation, all of us and how it obliges, but don't let anyone do what they want and abuse it in Serbia. Again, the worst thing is that through these organizations individuals are rich in the torment of this exiled and unhappy Serbian people, who live today, so many years after they fled their country and their home, in extremely difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11194	I thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Jojic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11195	Why is it important to bear in mind what the SRS MP Mr Dragan Todorovic said? I can't have agents and NGOs running around this country anymore, especially because we don't have a law on foreign NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's been going on lately in Serbia? Serbian citizens are not safe, have no security, foreign agents, with the help of our authorities, participate in unprecedented terror and violations of the law, in violation of basic human rights guaranteed by international standards, international law, the pact on the rights and freedoms of citizens, then the UN Charter, our Code of Criminal Procedure and the Constitution. When it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, you know what they've been doing lately? When they saw that they had no evidence against Prof. Vojislav Seselj, foreign agents came and did, twisting, threatening, breaking into apartments with weapons, searching apartments, even searching our citizens' children's computers, armed to the teeth, and the Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that entering a foreign apartment and searching each citizen's apartment in the Republic of Serbia can only be carried out on the basis of a solution from the competent court. The search of the apartment has to be made up. During the search of the apartment, two witnesses must be present. The entry into the apartment, if not searched, has to be issued a confirmation of an authorised official entering someone else's apartment. After searching the apartment, the person must be served with a record signed by witnesses and authorized persons who have received a court ruling. It is that Code of Criminal Procedure written by Serbian radicals, with the largest experts in this country. Now they come from The Hague, search all living, search for evidence, because they have no evidence against Professor Vojislav Seselj. The UN tribunal's prosecution orders, and our authorities, which is why what MP Dragan Todorovic said is important, they can co-operate with foreign institutions, but only within their mandate. If the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in Article 10, norms how national legislation must be respected, if the UN tribunal and its representatives feel that they have the right to come and examine someone's apartment, then national law and national regulations must apply. Therefore, the Constitution guarantees the secrecy of letters and other means of communication, the Constitution guarantees the inviolability of the apartment, the Constitution guarantees that the apartment can be entered and searched only on the basis of a solution by the competent court. What court, which came from The Hague to search, search, threaten and harass people in our country? Why are our organs involved in this? Why are our courts, especially the Special Court - a servant, instead of being the boss and master in their own country? As a result, the SRS believes that the activities and actions undertaken by foreign intelligence services have recently been the gravest violation of the UN Charter, the gravest violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the gravest violation of the CAP and all standards of international law. Come on, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, go to Holland and Belgium, or France, and enter that country and enter someone else's apartment, search that apartment! You can't go in there. There are certain institutions, there's law. Our laws, especially the Code of Criminal Procedure, are in line with all standards of international law. We have accepted that our CAP be one of the most democratic in Europe, because Serbian radicals have also brought it into line with French law, English, Velsa, America, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Australia, Russia, Belarus and all countries. Know that we have the most democratic Code of Criminal Procedure. This law on criminal proceedings, which has been announced to be applied next year, must be amended because the existing law is both democratic and how it protects fundamental human rights and freedoms. The one who is adopted here must be changed, because it cannot be revived; 87 members are contrary to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which we have brought to this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11196	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, president of the DS Group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11197	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the DS, this amendment is unacceptable. The purpose of this amendment is to limit co-operation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to the organs listed in Article. 19, 20 and 21, which includes the Asylum Office, the Asylum Commission and the Asylum Centre. So, the fact that Serbia is a member of the UN and that it stems from that membership is an obligation to co-operate with the High Commissioner for Refugees in all areas, i.e. that all state authorities are obliged to co-operate with the High Commissioner, is one of the reasons why this amendment is not acceptable to us. The second reason is that, when it comes to asylum, asylum and all issues related to asylum seekers are not possible only to the authorities listed in these three members. So many ministries are also involved later. Many ministries are passing sublegal acts regulating asylum-related issues, the Ministry of Social Labour, the Ministry of Health, absolutely. This excludes the possibility that other competent authorities with asylum obligations should be excluded from co-operation with the High Commissioner for Refugees. That's why this amendment is unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11198	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11199	To be clear, we didn't want any way to limit the work of UNHCR. When it comes to the asylum law, we just wanted to determine exactly who the UNHCR could co-operate with when it comes to asylum, and you listed here: the Asylum Office, the Commission and the Asylum Centre. It's governed by this law. Other authorities regulate other laws. You stick to the explanations given by the government. This is strictly about whether a person will get asylum and, in the process until he gets asylum, and when he gets it, when needed, that the state takes care of him. UNHCR can co-operate, and should only cooperate with these institutions. Everything else is governed by other laws. Why don't we just let them do something they think they should do, by their choice? No, I don't. You're dealing with an asylum problem. There are state authorities involved in this. They're defined by law, and it's precisely defined who's in and what's in it for. All problems, if there is an objection, let them refer to those organs, and they will, in accordance with our laws, if there are any failures, fail to correct them. Therefore, our goal is to in some way bring our country into a position to be an equal partner, not to get orders and not to come down to a mere object that will only be required and asked to meet them, because one of us is asking for them. No, I don't. Everything has to be defined and precise in the law. So in the simplest way, we'll avoid the problems we've had so far in many areas, even in this area. That's why we wanted to specify this cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11200	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is from Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11201	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, without this attitude and addition of article 6 proposed by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, this law is difficult to survive. First, counterpart Krasic told you a few days ago that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the concept of "azil". He asked himself, I don't know, counterpart Krasic, did the minister answer you or not, is asylum a synonym for refuge or vice versa? Article 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says exactly what it is that defines the position of such a person if he is a foreign citizen when the situation occurs. Article 57. The constitution says: "A foreigner who is fundamentally terrified of persecution for his race, gender, language, religion, nationality or belonging to a group, or for his political beliefs, has the right to shelter in the Republic of Serbia." We now come to the position of Article 2 57, which is absolutely in line with the amendment of fellow counterpart Nemanje Sarovic, where it is said: "The asylum process is regulated by law". If asylum is a haven, and you say, about, yes, that's how we understood the bill promoter, then the law has to sort all of this out above, which is logical. By the way, I have to tell you, since this law introduces two principles, which are defined by Article. The 17th and 18th laws, which are the principle of directness and the principle of confidentiality, it is clear that by submitting this amendment, counterpart Nemanja Sarović only wanted to fit the 6th, i.e. to follow the article. 17 and 18, because if you have introduced these two principles, without which it would be impossible to enforce this law, how will you implement it if the facts are not previously established. It is an incredibly pointless argument given by the government to reject this amendment, counterpart Nemanje Sarovic. Imagine, the government believes this amendment is not legally possible. First, the competent congregation committee did not find that it was not legally possible. It's possible, and that's clear by the Committee's position. So, the government is in collegiate with the position of the assembly committee. The government must know that the executive authority is under a certain supervisory mandate of the legislative, or National Assembly and that the conclusion of the Committee is older than the conclusion of the Government. Therefore, the government is wrong. It is said - since, if this amendment were to be adopted, it would be allowed to ban or force the person to return to the territory where his life or freedom would be threatened by his race, gender, language, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or political attitudes, unless the competent authority in the process has established these facts, and what would be contrary to the Constitution, to the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. It's the responsibility of the competent authority, you say, not only in Article 6, but in these two principles per article. 17 and 18, to determine the facts. What will the competent authorities do under the proposed asylum law, according to the article. 17 and 18? They will, through the principle of directness, even counterpart Jojic said that on the first day of the principle debate, and we agree that this foreign person can plead at the first police station when he enters the ground of our territory. Who knows what these are ways to get into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to do it one way or another, but it comes to the first police station and says - I demand that the state grant me asylum. However, these facts must be established previously. This is what counterpart Nemanja Sarovic is asking for, because if he submits a request, either verbally or directly, he should be heard by the authorised official, the competent organisation unit of Serbia's MUP, and we say - any, wherever he comes, about all the facts relevant for the recognition of the right to shelter or the granting of subsidiary protection. Take care of the facts. If you say it makes no sense what counterpart Sarovic is proposing, then delete the members 17th and 18th, then they do not have to report at all to any police administration of people who will come, just come and show up and that John Najbor, the CIA agent, as he was broken down that he worked together with General Perisic on subversive activities when it comes to the Army of then Yugoslavia, or Serbia. Let's say, now a villain like him, an international agent, a spy, comes and says, and believe me, there have been cases like that, I really know it, there's a person who shows up and says, "I'm being chased, I'm being threatened there one way or another," he comes into the territory of the country. We must, regardless of our objections, tomorrow the Serbian Radical will be the police minister, perhaps Mr Todorovic, is ideal for that function, perhaps someone else from the SRS, to look there at the file and see that this triple agent, established by the authorities of our state, is following a person. You don't think they're sitting on their hands. Jocic may not know what's going on around here, but operatives and people working on these extremely sensitive jobs, every unit organ in every city, in Kragujevac, in Cačka, with colleagues Baralic, has a foreign office, and these people, who are usually Colonels in Serbia's MUP, are working with their operational service to establish facts and track foreigners. For example, a stranger may appear here as a cooperative of a company, he may appear as someone who works on these jobs that his colleague Jojic mentioned, so he has, like, some legitimate NGO, so he's also guilty in the country he came from, and some are haunted by what, he comes and says, "I want to get asylum status in the state of Serbia." The competent authorities must determine the facts. For example, in Serbia it is true, we talked about this until five o'clock in the morning, an extremely difficult situation. This is most said by our church dignitaries, first of all, the Serbian Orthodox Church, but secondly, and a total of seven traditional religious communities in Serbia, that it is very dangerous to operate destructive religious sects. I must tell you that there is a certain religious sect coming from the state of Utah in the United States. Those who know and follow, have been informed that the entire city, 20 million people, belongs to that religious sect. I don't know if you listened to Mr Lukovic, who is employed by the Serbian MUP? Is that so, colleague Todorovic, I am speaking to you, I must speak to you, because the minister is not here, not to Dragan, but to my police colleagues. Mr. Lukovic has repeatedly talked on TV shows about the fact that these current religious cult representatives are actually here on a second assignment. It's established who they are. They act in every place, primarily on young people, destroying our national tissue, what is the cell of every society, act and thus degrade and destroy everything in Serbia. Some of them might show up tomorrow, they didn't do a good job, they didn't recruit enough quiet, say, Juta Mormon here in Serbia, and they tell him there -- you can't come back here anymore, or someone's threatening him because of that, they have methods of various destructive action, and you know it. It's a really long story, and it would require that we open up a debate about it. For those of us who are interested and who have been following it for years, we have read these publications, and in our party we have an expert on the area, which is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, who has repeatedly talked about it in public. I must tell you that you cannot allow such a person to appear in Kragujevac, in the King, in Chačka, in Paracino and tell him – you are being persecuted there, and he is here on a subversive mission, recruiting believers and SPCs and other churches. So you say, "Behold, you are welcome, for there they are persecuting you for your religion." Maybe they're not stalking him in Utah, but they're stalking him in New Jersey, they're not going to kill Mormons. It's probably clear to you that the state's authority is bound to determine these facts. For political reasons, someone can show up and say, from any country on the planet, that's why they're after me there. Of course, in Serbia, anyone who fights against globalism, every anti-globalist, anyone on planet Earth who recognizes today the greatest danger, which, in a global sense, is also being fought by our president in The Hague, because what else is this ad hoc court than the image of globalism today. So everyone is welcome, because he is spreading an idea that will eventually, you will see, win in a righteous and just world. As for what the state authorities should do, please understand that he was a very serious colleague, Sarovic, when he told you, as well as a member of 57. The constitution says, "According to the law that determines it." So, the example is a lot, we could really talk about it for a very long time. It's all due to the precaution and the fact that it's mostly how things start. Why have many laws been changed eight years ago, since Vladimir Putin's arrival as president of the Russian Federation, and why is Russia's unique, which is likely to win three-quarters of the electorate's mandate in Russia's state-run Dumu in the coming elections on December 2nd, why have they had to move quickly to pass laws to protect the Russian state authorities? It's precisely because of the previous, Jelicinian government, which has been handling these principles that you now blindly accept. I say again, this is a stamped-out, prescribed law, in the most part, from the countries of Western Europe, except for that Switzerland, which is not an EU member and which had a specific law because of the situation in the country. Why did they have to change that, the law on religious communities, to fight the sect and NGOs? Because of what we call examples of you, from school, from health care, from state institutions, from local self-government. A million are examples where such people act uninterruptedly, who are at any moment a latent danger to this society. Are they welcome, that's all a big question? Do they come with good intentions? I doubt that, because without any greater benefit and without wealth on the torture of such a poor and poor Serbian people under DOS rule, they have nothing to look for in Serbia. The amendment is fully in line with the constitution, and the reason for the Serbian government is unserious, because it is obvious that the draftr of this law has not essentially interfered with what counterpart Sarovic wanted to say. I just don't know if I should have convinced you from the parliamentary majority to accept this amendment in the voting day, to write - and in accordance with Article 57. It's the Constitution, in an explanation. And the explanation is quite solid, even though you wanted to analyze all of this, and you see for yourself, I explained to you in detail that the members of the 17th and 18th proposed law are asking for it. How they're going to determine the competent state authorities all these facts, and you've seen what they have to do to get to, first, the data on that personality, because they exist. You see, someone can be a serial killer, that's on Interpol's pursuit, and a million different situations, of course. First of all, it has to be introduced -- I'm the one and that, well, if it's his fake name and last name or really -- that's what the people of the MUP are saying, and they know how they do it in the department. And there's information about family members, to say, if that's any of these basics -- I came here for that and that, I live here and there, I have this family or I don't have it. When it comes to data on documents issued by the country of origin, it will happen that someone comes absolutely without anything, and they pass on the brochure of some sects, allegedly religious organizations and says – e, they haunt me there because of it, or they carry a membership card from a political party that they allegedly belong to. At the address of the residence, either there or no residence, it is again determined by the authorities, fingerprints, photographs – therefore, all of this is what Col. Sarović is looking for – "at the facts of the competent state authority which have been previously established". If there is no determination of these facts, then there is no basis to consider any request from any foreigner who will appear on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that, by our constitution, this has been defined as a haven, and under the law of asylum, seeking refuge or asylum in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11202	I thank National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, there's Mr. Milorad Buha, about the amendment. Right? Have you called about the weather or the amendment? You just had two minutes, and now you have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11203	Because of the weather. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think both Mr. Sarovic and counterpart Natasa Jovanovic are right about the very legal concept of asylum, havens and refugees. I think in this case we have violated the Constitution, because the constitutional provision of Article 57 clearly states what is a sanctuary. We need to base ourselves on a legal provision. The promoter, above all, had to include all definitions - asylum and rights to asylum, who has the right to shelter, in an institute called 'emigration and refugee status'. The constitutional provision of Article 57 says it's a foreigner. See what the proposal for an asylum law says: "The sanctuary is the right to stay and protect given to refugees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for which the competent authority determines... "So we missed. A constitutional provision is clear - a foreigner. We're going back to the refugees here. Let's see what is foreseen in the legal practice, given that we have two laws that regulate the status and concept of refugees, this is the 1992 Law on Refugees, which defines the concept of refugees, and says: 'Serbs and citizens of other nationalities, which, due to the pressure of Croatian authorities or authorities in other republics, are a threat to genocide, as well as persecution and discrimination over their religious and national belongings or political beliefs, were forced to leave their residences in those republics and to flee to the territory of the Republic of Serbia... "In the proposal of this asylum law, in Article 2, the refugee is defined as a person who, due to the justified fear of persecution, is being persecuted by his race, gender, language, religion, nationality... Look, if you want to be consistent, then we must always fit the constitutional provisions. The constitutional provision says "foreigner," and here it says "face." Which face - foreign or domestic? We tried to fit what was defined by the Refugees Act by some inerts, so that's all we've got under the "domestic face" under a refugee that already has a certain status. We can't, because we missed it for sure, and the Constitutional Court, if we get it soon, will surely bring this definition down. Furthermore, we do not have a clearly differentiated and defined entity of persecution anywhere in the proposal for an asylum law. People from Kosovo and Metohija have been exiled. How do you seduce them now, within the framework of this asylum law, who are they, where do you put them now? Are they refugees? What does it mean, a evicted face? Where's the definition of exiled face? Does it have a sanctuary? According to the Constitution, he's got a real foreign face on it. We didn't solve this well, and I think that's where we broke the Constitution and that we had to come up with a system that we call - a whole complex that covers the concept of asylum. We must distinguish asylum in Western European terminology, which does not know refugees. The refugee was a concept that was related to World War II and to changes, demographic changes that followed because of World War II. Now, in the modern world, we no longer have refugees in the classical sense. Western European terminology now goes to asylum seekers. We must, then, fit into our constitution, into everything we have in our regulation. We have two laws, the Law on Refugees and the 2005 Asylum Act, which is the federal law of our former state union Serbia-Montenegro. What's the suggestion? The proposal is to put all of this out of action now and seriously consider how to process this matter. If you're going to allow, obviously, you're not interested in this. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I'm telling you this seriously, because I studied this matter. On the other hand, I've been through all of this and I've tried to underline and imagine what you wanted to define these and I think you missed. You must return to the constitutional decree that says - the right to shelter and who has the right to shelter, and from all of this do what we need to do. So, termologically, asylum shouldn't have been covered. We have the Refugees Act, which we have, in fact, kept as an integral text. Through the proposal for an asylum law, we have introduced certain provisions concerning refugees, but in the 1992 Refugees Act, we have not changed a single provision at all. We can't, so we can't change it and build on certain matter from some law to regulate it with another law without changing anything there. The term "exorcist," too, we haven't worked it out. He's nowhere to be found here. Now where are we going to install the exiles in this asylum proposal of yours? We don't have it regulated, and every day we have people coming to us from Kosovo and Metohija. They're exiles. They are persecuted by religious, national, political, etc. A line. We have refugees from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia who come here every day. They're talking to state authorities, the Refugee Commissioner, but I can't get the right to refugee status -- no more. We can't even take it under shelter, because we haven't defined it properly, and we can't even go under asylum. What kind of asylum seekers are they now? How do you define them? The definition of the Refugees Act is too narrow. Think carefully, I think we missed this constitution, and the creation of the Refugees Act had to be changed, and the asylum law shouldn't have been given like this. The practical question, which concerns, probably, certain instructions that you received from the European Union; all countries are getting them, so we probably got them, too. objectively, we have no reason for this, we had 60 or 70 last year and some asylum applications filed. We don't have a direct need to have something special and regulate it, we've had speedy cases. The European Union is doing this to protect itself, first of all, because of the social and economic misery that goes to earn and to survive, then they call it the European Union's 'twice bypass'. The first is their legal system, their border and their administration, the second – those countries that acquired the property of status and signed an association agreement, and the third are all other states. Clearly, the European Union, its directives, requires those who are now in status and those who will come into status to define the asylum issue because it is important to them. They don't have a problem with refugees and they don't know the concept. It was after World War II and it ended. According to these instructions, we've regulated the question, we've tried this law to regulate the issue, but we've had to go deeper, and before that, we have to solve the question of the concept of refugees and this law. Corrections to the Refugees Act must follow far more radically than this law has now been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11204	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Buhi. We've made contact with the police minister, the man is not in Belgrade right now, and he'll try to get there. If he doesn't arrive, I'll let you know and, if you like, we'll interrupt the session. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11205	Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the Law, which speaks of a ban on exile or return. Article 6 itself speaks of the fact that no person should be expelled or returned to his will where his life or freedom would be threatened, or for any of the reasons stated by a member of the law. The position of the 2nd member states that this provision does not apply if that person threatens the country's security, meaning, ours, which should provide asylum. I submit an amendment to Section 3 which says, "Independent of the provisions of Title 2," means, where asylum cannot be provided if that person threatens the security of our country, "it must not be expelled or against its will returned to the territory", and is now the essence of the amendment in the words "at which there is a risk of being subjected to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment". The amendment, after this point, adds a point and says: "if the competent authority in the procedure and the facts are established. "So in view of the 3rd of this article, you say -- it's possible there's a risk that a person should not be expelled. Who's to say? In what way? By what criteria? I think it is necessary to specify that the competent authority, in a certain procedure, determines those facts. We don't interfere with what criteria he's going to do, because the rules of conduct in these cases exist. It is simply inadmissible that the principle of discretion, behind which it stands, with the signature and act, a man, a competent person in your ministry, or any other person, does not stand behind such a decision. As the SRS struggles against all discretionary rights of ministers, chiefs, appointed and appointed persons, that, beyond the criteria established, by law or by any act which is generally known and accessible to all, you regulate someone's life, you prescribe certain material givings or restricting certain rights, in such a principled way we fight to respect the continuation of the sentence, in which we say - only if the competent authority determines in the process of that fact. Why do we insist on this precision? Because there are very difficult, unfavourable consequences for the country, people, when risk assessment is done on the basis of, for example, newspaper texts. Remember that two years ago, we had a planned and staged attempt at a new hotspot in the territory of Vojvodina, where Mrs Doris Pack tried to draw conclusions based on the newspaper texts of certain papers coming out in this country, which awaited a resolution in the District Parliament, on the alleged unsatisfactory state of security of national minorities. Today, we have completely opposite views on the security of citizens, not only of Serbs, but of all other peoples and peoples living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, depending on whether the report on this security is submitted by Albanians, international institutions or our bodies, or those whose impression and report are most credible, and these are the people who live below. So, is there war in Iraq because someone doesn't want the dollar to be a measure of value anymore, so that's why it's staged the conflict that's going on, which is what the former director of the Federal Reserve Administration is talking about today, Mr. Allen Greenspen, or is there really a threat to human rights, or is the reason why there are no defined criteria for trying to impose peace and democracy as they do today's United States? Don't think this is a story spread. This is simply an attempt to convince you that no matter how moral officials are to you, no matter how educated, objective, it is not enough to risk an appraisal to return a person to his country to the personal assessment of the man who decides and who will not, by any act or signature, stand behind that decision, which can produce very large consequences. The fact that you treat this amendment only on the other side, the negative side, afraid that you won't be able to decide on it, and you say - if the procedure doesn't determine it, then we have to banish it, in fact, is talking about your fear that you're not in a state of law and in a certain procedure of this fact. That comes from the explanation you wrote. Let me tell you, there is no citizen of Serbia who needs a law school. Every citizen who has a healthy logic knows that it's not enough to establish an argument, but facts. It's not enough and it doesn't matter how I explain if there's a risk, it's necessary to determine whether that risk really exists. The previous amendment by counterpart Nemanje Sarovic and the one I submitted, on behalf of the SRS, discusses the need for this risk to be determined precisely and in the process. Please take your decision very seriously when you decide to refuse such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11206	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. The SRS has eight minutes left for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11207	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is obvious that Mr. Jocic will not be coming to Parliament soon. Why is that obvious? Because the MPs of the assembly led by the drone, as these yellow drones say, are not here, and I will remind you, they were in these ranks this morning; all four of you are here, it's a good thing you called me to count you. They expected Mr. Jocic to be there and were ready to applaud him, apparently. I don't think they would support or speak against the amendments, since, mostly, they don't talk about the agenda, but I must commend my colleagues from this second "yellow" act, who were there and when their minister, Mr. Petrovic, was there and now, as they await Minister Jocic. I think you'd... No, it's not your minister, it's your government, Djelic, and theirs is Kostunica's. There is also that third part of the government, Young Dinkic. That's what everyone in Serbia knows and I don't believe that you're not informed. Not enough notice, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that Mr. Dragan Jocic is not in Belgrade, because if it was obvious that he was ready to come to Parliament this morning, and I said on what grounds it was obvious, then we wonder where he is now. Is it possible he's hunting because it's his hobby? I don't mind that hobby, but did he, perhaps, go hunting or really go on some important state business, so that we can understand, keep working without him? Or, perhaps, somewhere in the Raski area, to see and to find out what, for example, today in the Raška area don't work schools, health institutions, municipal administration? Today in the Raška region, ladies and gentlemen, something called the "day of the Sanjay flag" is celebrated. Today children don't go to school in the Raška region, today you can't get treatment in the Raška area, you can't finish any work in the municipal authority of the administration. Of course, in courts you can't, since the courts have already entered the third week of the strike. The government is not responding, which is inadmissible, because it can strike a day, two, three, without the government reacting, but that one part of the government, the judicial branch of the government, is already not working for a third week, which means that one part of the state has been completely blocked, and that the government is not responding, that the Prime Minister is not responding, it is simply inadmissible. So, we, Mr. Chairman, are asking you to tell us where Mr. Jocic is, so let's estimate, if he's really in some important state business, we'll continue without him, and if he isn't, we'll wait for him, but another day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11208	My belief is that Minister Jocic, who was also very correct last time, today I also praised Minister Petrovic for his important task, and I accept that. Exactly where it is, I don't know, but I suggest, since it's a good atmosphere, let's keep working. However, I don't mind if the opposition MPs who are right this time, I must say, think the minister should be present. I suggest we keep working. Mr. Todorovic, it's a shame, you have four amendments, you have a wonderful time here. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry to disappoint the chairman, but without wanting to make this look like an obstruction in any way. We simply believe that, and we have always represented that, I don't think we should have any dilemma at all as MPs, the minister should be present. We had understanding, believing that the minister would make it to the end, that is, we had confidence that he would come and be involved in this debate. We believe that, and you had the opportunity to see, during the debate on the previous agenda, the minister's presence in some way eliminates certain problems, that certain amendments are accepted by the minister and that this is then a contribution to some better law, or a bill that will come out of this assembly. So I would ask the chairman, if he has a firm promise, but the information that Minister Jocic cannot arrive, which is said to be not Germans in Lapovo, we can end it tomorrow, but I would draw attention to something, not only because of the MPs, but also because of the citizens of Serbia. There are three coalition partners here, three parties, and we already have a repeat picture. Whenever there's a proposal from a single party in the coalition government, I mean the DSS and the DSS, because it's true, the DS representatives are sitting here in benches. When it comes to the DSS, there is no such thing, and apparently they knew that Minister Jocic would not come, because their MPs are not here. Therefore, I would ask you, the chairman, to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure foresees the presence of a minister during the debate. Let's keep the debate in principle, even somewhat tolerable, but when it comes to amendments, then the minister's presence is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-20-0.u11210	I'm interrupting today's session. I schedule the session for tomorrow at 10 p.m. and ask the service to inform the minister, or his colleagues, that the minister may be present.
