ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29777	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Borka Vukic, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this session and, before the start of work, welcome you, congratulate you on the choice and trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in future work. I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, alongside the MPs, is attended by the president and members of the Republic Election Commission, which I also welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, First (Constitutive) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one, the youngest, national MP with four electoral lists, who received the largest number of MPs and secretary of the National Assembly, and this: – Nikola Vukelić, the youngest MP from the Election List Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj; – Konstantin Samofalov, the youngest MP from the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic; – Borko Ilic, the youngest National MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Nova Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica; – Miljan Rangelović, the youngest MP from the Electoral List G17 plus – Mladjan Dinkić – the National Assembly, the National Assembly. I ask the youngest Members of the people to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 246 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 86(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are conditions for working and deciding. The minutes from this session will be handled by the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the session shall be stenographed and recorded. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 4. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Pursuant to those provisions and to the agreement of representatives of parliamentary parties and party coalitions, the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament; 2. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on "A proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status" by UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status; 3. Selection of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 6. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 7. Proposal for a Law on Ministrys; 8. The government's choice. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Articles 7 and 8). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs gain rights and responsibilities in the National Assembly on the day of their respective mandates. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, in a constitutional session, on a proposal from the presidency, educates a three-member commission, from one member of the three electoral lists that received the largest number of parliamentary seats in the National Assembly. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of the selection of each MP is identical with the information contained in the Report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the person chairing the constitutional session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on the assurances of the election for MPs in agreement with the Report, confirming the mandate of those MPs. The National Assembly was established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the MPs (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement with this and the consultations carried out, I propose that MPs be elected to the Commission to establish the agreement of the Parliament of Parliament and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out: 1. Verica Radeta, from the Serbian Radical Party Election List – Dr Vojislav Seselj; 2. Nenad Konstantinović, from the Democratic Party Election List – Boris Tadic; 3. Milica Radovic, from the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's Electoral List. I note that, in accordance with Article 105 of Article 2 of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the Commission's education proposal to be voted by the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the consensus of the vote's assurance for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (02 People's Messengers) Who's against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (Nico) I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have accepted this proposal. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the consent of the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the Members of the Commission to hold a session immediately in Hall 1 on the ground floor. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue after a 90-minute break. [[After break – 14,10 lessons]] Let me welcome, on behalf of all of us, our fellow guests, Mr Boris Tadic, the President of the Republic of Serbia and Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I welcome present government ministers, members of the team and other guests. [[Applause]] We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that, with the call of this session, you have received the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 21 January and 8 February 2007. Before the start of this part of the session, you were presented with the Commission's report to determine the agreement of the People's Parliament's Parliament and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur, Mrs Vervain Radeta, want a word? (No) I thank you. According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on selecting Members of Parliament and Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections, which confirmed the mandate of all MPs. (Tomislav Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Shall we discuss the RIK report? No, no, no, Please, if you'd like a word. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think there's a more important act at the moment, except for the other point, to be discussed, from the RIK Report. If anyone here delivers a report, we expect a debate on the report or a vote on the report. Now I'm interested in whether or not I'm getting into some scenario where it's supposed to be? If not, I'm asking to open a debate on the report, if it's overlooked, I'll wait, if there are any other jobs before the hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29780	It's not supposed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29781	It's not supposed to. Then we'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29783	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29784	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29785	First, I think it would be my turn to thank Mr Predrag Markovic, because the way he served as National Assembly President was a certain democratic relaxation compared to what the National Assembly had previously done to the president of the assembly that DOS has chosen since 2001. I would like to point out in a few points, hopefully you have a little patience, point out the course of election actions in this election process, point out the irregularities that the SRS has seen in the conduct of the republican elections, in the hope that this could help to avoid future errors, random or intentional ones, and turn a little more equality in the electoral process. Right away, it won't be too long, at nine points I figured it out, that the RIK was under illegal pressure from high-ranking state officials. In this I am counting a visit from the president of the National Assembly to the Republic Election Commission, which pointed out to the members of the Commission that there is a ghettoisation of national minorities in Serbia and suggested to the RIK that the guidelines for the implementation of parliamentary elections provide for better conditions for the declaration of electoral lists of national minorities. You know that we appoint the Republic Election Commission, but it is independent and independent in work and works on the basis of laws and regulations passed under the law. The president of the National Assembly seems to have made a decisive suggestion to RIK, since, and I will tell you later, RIK has begun to listen to instructions from state officials, not to respect the law. I suppose the president of the National Assembly didn't go alone, willingly, because if it were on his own, the members of the RIK would have kicked him out. No, they knew that he was coming as a representative of their coalition and on this basis they had adopted the Instructions for the implementation of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs in which they had provided, in Article 23(1), paragraph 8, for the submission of electoral lists of national minority political parties, together with the electoral list, to apply at least 3,000 judicially certified statements of voters supporting the electoral list. This provision of the Manual is clearly contrary to Article 43(1). A law on the election of MPs, which stipulates that the list can be accepted and declared if it is supported by 10,000 voters who have the right to vote in Serbia by their signatures. No other provision in the Law provided for the possibility that one electoral list could be declared with less certified signatures. It's a perfect cognitive norm and there was no room for any interpretation of RIK. In this way, four electoral lists have been illegally declared. RIK has declared four electoral lists although their signatures did not support 10,000 voters: the Union of Roma Serbia – Dr Rajko Djuric, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley, the Roma Party – Srdjan Shin, the Coalition of Hungarian Syllabic – Andras Agoston, Dr Pal Shandor. Addressing only principled reasons, the SRS objected against the resolution on the announcement of the said electoral lists. All objections were denied. Against the resolutions that rejected the objections, we filed complaints to the Supreme Court of Serbia, which also illegally rejected all complaints. I draw your attention in the way judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia resonate when they explain their position that the electoral list of national minorities can be declared despite the fact that it was not supported by 10,000 voters. Serbia's Supreme Court has called in its rulings for a Framework Convention for Minority Protection, which was adopted at a meeting of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers on 10 November 1994. This Convention provides for the duty of the Signatory State to ensure full and real equality of members of the national minority and members of the majority by appropriate measures in all areas of economic, social, political and cultural life. "The full and real equality of members of the national minority and members of the majority." The convention says minority members must be equal to the majority, but it does not say that the signatories' state is obliged to favour members of the minority compared to members of the majority. It should be noted that the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 75, provides for additional individual and collective rights to be guaranteed to members of national minorities, but those rights are granted in accordance with the law. This means that only the law can predict that members of the national minority with regard to the exercise of certain rights will be privileged against the majority people. Under RIK acts, this cannot be prescribed. Unauthorized wrong opinions on the meaning of certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have been adopted and were acted on by those opinions. You know that this refers to the right to elect officials in the executive authorities as MPs. RIK dares to believe that the executive power in the Republic of Serbia is: the president of the Republic, ministers, officials and persons in office in ministries and other state administration bodies. On the other hand, according to RIK's understanding, the authorities of local self-government, municipalities and cities are not public authorities, so they cannot be classified as executive authorities. From there, RIK concludes that Article 102(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not regulate the incompatibility of the role of MPs with the role of local self-government officials, and that the president of municipalities and mayors may be MPs. By adopting this opinion on the application of a constitutional provision, RIK went beyond the limits of its jurisdiction. Namely, RIK, as a state body for the conduct of the elections, is not competent to adopt opinions on the application of constitutional standards, even when these standards are relevant for the conduct of elections for MPs. Such an attitude arises from Article 34(3) of point (a) of Article 1(3). The law on the election of MPs, under which RIK monitors application and provides explanations regarding the application of this law, particularly on the conduct of foreign voting. Therefore, the cited legal standard, which regulates the RIC's competence, states that this authority can only give views on the application of the Law on the selection of MPs, not opinions on the application of constitutional standards. In addition, by adopting an opinion on the application of the constitutional standard, the Republic Election Commission acted contrary to Article 80. The State Administration Act. The State Administration Act provides that state authorities are obliged to give an opinion on the application of the provisions of the law and other general acts within 30 days. These opinions are not legally binding. This legal norm undoubtedly requires the following: 1) The Republic Election Commission, as a state body, cannot deliver an opinion on the application of constitutional standards; 2) an opinion on the application of the legal and other sublegal general norms of RIK may only be made if interested legal and natural persons so requested. No legal entity has addressed RIK in order to give an opinion on the application of Article 102(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, you already have the opinion of the Republic Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, which states that the office of mayor and president of the municipality is incompatible with the role of MP. Under point 5, a unique voter list. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2000, I think October 12th, a Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed, under which the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to have a single electoral list, which is updated once a year and must be updated in the year when elections are held. It's a computer election list, and its parts are run around the municipalities. From the moment the first elections under the law were held, in December 2000, it has been almost seven years. In seven years of DOS rule in different combinations, you did not want to form a single polling list in the Republic of Serbia. It's not my place to investigate the reasons that motivated you, but it's mine to seek responsibility, especially the Minister for Local Self-Government in all the councils, as he called it, that doesn't matter, because he didn't do his basic duty. I don't even know what other duty he could have had when you know there's a lot of dead people on the ballots. After all, in the Office of the President of the Republic they used these lists to call women to elections, so they called the women who had been buried long ago. Another observation: Why does the electoral procedure not respect the rule of official use of language and letter? Why are the ballots printed in Latin if it is in official use of the Cyrillic letter? Further, irresponsible treatment when preparing election material. The Republic Election Commission has left all the work to technical services. The public was not allowed to comment on why more than 400,000 ballots had to be destroyed, which had to be destroyed because of the incorrect name of the two electoral lists. The public may never have found out that you didn't even print ballots for children on military service and that the failure was detected when it was due to approach the vote. Disrespect of legal standards for violations of electoral procedure. You know that we have generally objected every time and that you have had time to act on all the objections, because they have always been clear and unquestionable. I can't believe you don't have enough reason to cancel the election at the polling station that when votes are counted, there are more ballots than there were in the morning when they were divided. For some members of the RIK, this was not a reason for the elections to be annulled in that polling post, but was waiting for the Supreme Court to rule in that case. For you, it is not a reason to cancel the election in the polling post or that the ballot box was destroyed during the vote that day, but rather a representative of the RIK came and found that zero voters voted and each political party received zero votes in the polling post. The term "unaccepted rules" that you apply in the conduct of elections in Serbia is just a sign of how shallow you think about the state of Serbia, which, firstly, is still not acting according to the accepted rules of international law, and in the election procedure there is no generalised rules of electoral law at all, or perhaps it is generally acceptable that the President of the Republic participates in an election campaign of a political party, if that is the rule you mean. I'd like to see if I could at least be listed by the state where the President of the Republic acted like this, by the government taking advantage of all its power, all its influence. Until the election results were announced, it was not the technical government. She signed international agreements. CEFTA fell in an election campaign, a pre-contract for the pipeline "down" in the election campaign. Suddenly, when election results were declared, when someone was to stand up to Marty Ahtisaari, it turned out that the government did not have enough mandate to stand up, but has a mandate to bring down other political entities in the election race on its knees. The lack of a supervisory board to conduct the elections. It did not occur to you to establish a supervisory board, because it must determine whether broadcasting institutions, whether participants in the election acted in accordance with the law, because it must give an initiative to initiate proceedings against one who in the election procedure extends the race, religion and intolerance of any other species. Blocking the Constitutional Court's work, which I would eventually have to isolate. The Constitutional Court does not have a constitutionally foreseen number of judges, not only of this constitution, but also of the constitution that was in force before it. He must, in accordance with Articles 101 and 106, make a decision within 72 hours to confirm the mandate of MPs. Today, whoever is dissatisfied with this allocation of the mandate has the right to file a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, which is due to be resolved within 72 hours. Do we have a Constitutional Court? We don't have a Constitutional Court. There's no one to solve cases by constitutional appeals. Who's to blame? The President of the Republic. He first proposed candidates whom the Assembly did not want to choose, and then gave up proposing candidates. It was his responsibility that this state of lawlessness, although the right of constitutional appeal was passed on to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, following a new constitution, be extended indefinitely. We're just keeping this public. We're not going to act any different today than all of you in this room. We will vote in favour of accepting the RIK report, but we want to inform the public about how the elections were conducted and how they were conducted, after all. Our party, the Serbian Radical Party, proved its attitude towards the regularity of the elections even when it lost the election in 2000, and therefore we have the moral right to point out whenever the republican authorities do not conduct the elections in a legitimate manner. Our desire is to avoid such and similar abuses in the future, not to happen again, and that would give full legitimacy to all elected state officials and political institutions in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I ask you to finally consider how the citizens of Serbia abroad will finally, once the right to vote, not only for the employees of diplomatic consular offices and members of their families. You left a huge number of voters out of the right to vote again, although you promised them that in the 2000 campaign, and that may have been decisive to get the main support. If all voters were able to vote abroad this time, and when they can download money through a computer, it is certain that they can also vote, in many countries in the world, people vote in the mail, identify themselves in the same letter in which they send their vote, so it is very simple to do so, that they could vote, today you wouldn't have to think about what political party has a mandate for the formation of a government, which has 126 MPs in the Serbian Parliament. That would be the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29786	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. We're continuing the session. Since the mandate of all MPs has been confirmed, two-thirds of the Members of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly has been established, so allow me to wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA BY THE "PROGRAMME FOR A CONSTITUTION OF THE STATUS OF KOSOVS" OF THE SPECIFIC ASSISTANT OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY OF MARTY AHTISARY AND CONTINUE OF THE CONTRACTION ON THE FUTURE OF STATUS AND METOCHY BEFORE WE GO TO THE 2nd POINT OF THE Agenda, I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in agreement with Article 23. The Rules of Procedure, established by the following parliamentary groups: – The Parliamentary Group of the Serbian Radical Party, whose National MP is Tomislav Nikolic, and his deputy MP, Aleksandar Vucic; – Parliament Group of the Democratic Party, whose National MP is Dusan Petrovic, and his deputy MP, Milan Markovic; – Parliament Group of the Democratic Party of Serbia – Nova Srbija – Dr Vojislav Kostunica, whose deputy MP is Milos Aligrudić, and his deputy MP, Mr Miroslav Markicevic; – MP G 17 Plus, whose National MP is Mladjan Dinkic, and his deputy MP, Verica Kalanovic; – The Socialist Party of Serbia's MP, whose National MP is Ivica Dacic, and his deputy MP, Dr. Žarko Obradović; – The Communist group of the Democratic people, Nemirović, who is the President of the Democratic Party of the Republic of Serbia. You received the motion for a resolution submitted by the Government. Before opening the search, allow me to, on your behalf and on my behalf, welcome the gentleman: Boris Tadic – President of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica – Prime Minister, members of the Team for Political Talks on the Future Status of Kosovo and Metohija and Minister of Government. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the search for parliamentary groups is 5 hours, I find that the time of debate is, according to parliamentary groups, the following: The SRS parliamentary group – 1 hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; the DS – 1 hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS – New Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes and 24 seconds; the G 17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS Group of MPs – 19 minutes and 12 seconds; the Liberal Democratic Party Group – 13 minutes and 12 seconds. Members of the People who do not belong to any of the MPs, five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, opening a joint search on the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status, UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. According to Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will continue its work after 18 hours, or until the work on this agenda is completed. I give my word to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29787	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, first of all, I congratulate you all on the election and I wish to work successfully to pass the law, in the interests of our citizens and to implement reforms in society, which will lead Serbia faster through European integration. At the very beginning of his work, this assembly of the National Assembly was also faced with an extremely difficult, important, and responsible task. Negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, which have been under UN auspices since the end of 2005, are entering its final phase. UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's special envoy gave me his proposal on February 2nd for a solution to the province's future status, and invited our delegation to a new round of negotiations in Vienna, scheduled for February 21st. The Ahtisaari proposal and the departure of our negotiating team to Vienna must be declared by the National Assembly as the highest authority in Serbia. With the leaders of parliamentary parties, I reached an agreement a few days ago to speed up the process of establishing the National Assembly, and to prepare our negotiating team for the government a draft assembly resolution on the Ahtisaari proposal. This draft today lies before you, honourable MPs, and I am confident that it opens the way for important decisions, which need to be made at this session. Since the beginning of negotiations on Kosovo's future status and Metohija, Serbia has led a clear, consistent and unique policy, the basis of which is to defend the country's sovereignty, territorial integrity, in line with the principles of international law and a patient demand for a reasoned compromise. We offer Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija everything they have the right to have in the context of civilised, democratically-organised states – essential autonomy, which will enable them to decide independently on almost all issues of their daily life, with the restoration of economic ties with central Serbia and the willingness to help the economic recovery of the province, but also from Albanian leaders in Kosovo and Metohija and from international actors who are there today, or will be there tomorrow, are asking to stop the persecution and discrimination of Serbs in the province, to regain their basic rights and to allow them to live normal lives. Only when it is realized will there be conditions for the return of our population who had to leave their homes. We also ask that, finally, true, and not only on words, the protection of our church and monasteries in the province, that the Serbian Orthodox Church can again act uninterruptedly in Kosovo and Metohija and live with the people, as it has done for centuries, and that in a fair way we resolve the issues of our public and private property. The honourable MPs, in public, have already been told a lot about Ahtisaari's proposal, whose essence is unquestionable. It is basically a plan that paves the way for Kosovo's independence, which violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, which Ahtisaari does not mention in his proposal at all. The adoption of the proposal would therefore have an anti-constitutional character, which is clearly indicated in the draft resolution, which therefore calls on you to reject the views set out in the UN Special Envoy proposal, which violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia as an internationally recognised state. And many other elements of Ahtisaari's proposal, those relating to decentralisation and the rights of the Serb community, to general security issues, to the protection of churches and monasteries, to public property and privatisation, are not favourable to us and are far from the views our negotiating team has fully represented in the Vienna negotiations. Nevertheless, I am fully convinced that Serbia should participate in the negotiations in Vienna on 21 February and state that our country's unequivocal attitude towards Ahtisaari's plan, as well as what we offer as a fairer and more politically realistic solution, and as regards the status itself, as well as all important issues for the survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Since the start of political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, Serbia has advocated that negotiations and dialogue come to an agreed, mutually acceptable solution. This is not a current tactics, but a strategic commitment, because only a compromise solution that comes through negotiations can have a lasting character and lead to regional stability, which is the vital interest of all Western Balkan countries and the precondition for their faster accession to the EU. This should be clear to everyone, both in ourselves and in the world, especially at the moment when demonstrations against negotiations are held in Pristina and once again threatened by the wave of violence against Serbs. Serbia is unwavering against any imposed solution and today is not completely alone in it, but that is why we must be prepared to participate constructively in the negotiations, with the same patience and strength we have shown so far. I will always be prepared for that, because I am deeply convinced that this is the best way to defend the sovereignty of our country and protect the interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Dear MPs, I will repeat once again that Serbia does not accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that it wants a peaceful path and political negotiations to come to a mutually acceptable solution. Only in this way will we consistently defend the integrity of our country, the integrity of our people, but at the same time our European future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29788	I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, to address us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29789	Dear People's MPs, first of all, congratulate you all on the election, on the establishment of a new parliament, which I also earnestly wish for successful work, for the sake of the people and the states of Serbia. Today, the National Assembly, by its resolution, is due to respond to Marty Ahtisaari's proposal for a future arrangement between the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which he brought to Belgrade on February 2nd. The motion for a resolution, set before you, at yesterday's cabinet session, based on a text prepared by the State Negotiating Team on Kosovo and Metohija's future status and after consultations with the parties represented in this parliamentary session. Right away, it is well known that none of our generations have passed the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia's response today, in its highest representative body, must therefore express the will and interest of the present generation, to necessarily take care of the interests of future generations, as well as what previous generations have done over the centuries by defending and defending Serbia's state and national interests. Let us therefore go in order, from the way and day of Marty Ahtisaari's arrival with his proposal. The whole world knew that parliamentary elections were held in Serbia on January 21st, with a view to the state getting a new parliament and a new government. Just 11 days after the elections were held, until the election process had been completed, let alone the state authorities, Ahtisaari, without any consultations or agreements with Belgrade as a host, decided to come and present his proposal. This is not about the issue of the elementary state protocol, it's about something much deeper and more serious. It is about the intention to bring such a fateful proposal to Serbia right at the moment when two of the three key institutions of government, the Assembly and the Government, are not being established. That is why it is our duty to point out here, in the Assembly, the very circumstances of Ahtisaari's arrival in Belgrade. Of course, it is incomparable that we now consider and assess what Ahtisaari has brought in Belgrade. In short, a proposal on Serbia's dispersal was submitted. A proposal has been made to kidnap Serbia 15% of its territory. A proposal has been tabled to counter Serbia's will to change its internationally recognised borders. A proposal denied the UN Charter in Serbia's case, trampled on the principles of international law, ignored the will of the people of Serbia at a referendum and ignored Serbia's constitution. The content of the submitted proposal shows unequivocally that Ahtisaari, instead of dealing with the issue of the Kosovo province's arrangement, violated his mandate and raised the issue of Serbia's state status. In fact, it is a proposal to take away part of its territory and cross its borders in order to create another Albanian state in its territory. If such a proposal is presented to a sovereign state, then it is clear that behind everything there is no valid explanation, no real argument other than the argument of force and the right greater. Dear People's MPs, today is our duty to call things our real name. It is our duty that, giving a clear answer, we refuse to be complicit in taking the right to force ourselves. It is necessary for the whole world to know that this is not about anything but about an open and rude disturbance to the integrity of a democratic European state. It is particularly surprising and worrying about the tenacity that requires Serbia to do something that no country can ever give, if it does not lose its statehood, its identity, its place among people and peoples. Discarding the argument of force and the right to greater power, Serbia says it is attracted to the force of justice and is subject to only the argument of law. This in both Serbian and other languages, simply put, means that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of Serbia, which means that Kosovo cannot be independent, even if by force and legal violence were kidnapped, because what has been kidnapped always remains kidnapped, as lawlessness can never turn into legality. Such a thing Serbia does not allow and must not allow. As long as Serbia keeps to rights and justice, Kosovo will be its own. As he adheres to these principles, Serbia will neither be defeated nor humiliated. We do not dispute the fact that when it comes to force, many have an advantage over Serbia, but we are determined not to favour anyone when it comes to justice and justice. Dear MPs, I am firmly convinced that you are sharing the opinion that it is unacceptable to demand that the actions of Serbia be taken, not by any part of Serbia, but by Kosovo and Metohija, carried out by the hands of Serbia, be carried out in its name and at the expense of its elementary dignity. Since Ahtisaari's proposal is essentially an illegal and illegal act, the National Assembly of Serbia, with peaceful and full confidence in the principles of justice and justice, should simply reject all the provisions of this proposal that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and that is exactly what it says in the resolution before you. On the other hand, Serbia is confident that we have the strongest possible weapon available for any further talks that will take place in Vienna. It's an invincible weapon that makes for justice and justice. Therefore, all the pressures are in vain and all the offers are pointless and everything some call carrots in order for Serbia to give up these principles. The simple truth is – there is no compensation for Kosovo. We will go to Vienna to explain that Serbia is ready for any reasonable compromise and agreement with anyone who respects the principles on which the international order is established. It is also a very important content of the resolution in front of you. Of the utmost importance, this must remain recorded and remembered, and I would especially like to point out once again, is that Serbia has offered the highest degree of autonomy to the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija. It is untrue that Serbia reportedly said only what it would not, and not what it wanted. We said, wrote and signed that Serbia offers Albania's national minority the highest degree of autonomy possible. We offered a detailed and well-founded proposal of autonomy in the National Negotiation Team platform, on January 5th last year, and expressed readiness for every conversation on what we propose. We reminded then, as we now remind ourselves, that European and any other democratic standards require national minorities to exercise their rights, whether individual or collective, exclusively through different degrees of autonomy and a system of minority rights, rather than through the breaking of existing state continents. He who rejects all of this and wishes by force to disperse Serbia must be aware that he is responsible for all the consequences of his violence. He must also be aware that Kosovo is by no means a single case, which allows it to play with the principle of non-violence of borders, so that in other cases the principle is respected. On the contrary, by throwing the principle at its feet in the case of Kosovo, it would create an extremely dangerous precedent. It is no accident that this issue is fully responsibly approached and debated in the political public of certain countries, in a completely justified fear of the old and more new governmental claims of their national minorities. These are the honourable messengers of the people, simple and undisputed truths from which no matter what is said or done, cannot escape. Finally, at the very end, things may be approached in a completely different way. What is it that anyone, even unbiased, could resent our proposal to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problems? Do we perhaps violate a European standard or some principle of international law? Are we perhaps depriving some of the rights of the Albanian national minority? What is it that is controversial in our commitment to respect international law, to respect the Charter of the United Nations, to respect the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity? Serbia, I must say, has not heard a single spoken and worthy answer to these questions yet. Finally, honourable MPs, you naturally belong to different parties, you have many questions, including about Kosovo, different opinions. In addition, I invite all of you today, when Serbia faces this fate issue, to reach agreement. Kosovo is a question of Serbia, of the Serbian people and is far older than our current beliefs. Today is an important historic day. In front of God and people, we must once again show determination and the strongest will for Serbia to remain what must be, a country in its full integrity, unwaveringly attached to freedom, justice and justice, and at the height of its historical destiny.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29790	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. We continue to work in accordance with the order of giving words. I give my word to the president of the Serbian Radical Party MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking again today about Kosovo and Metohija, the truth with a little more facts than at the last session of the National Assembly, but obviously with the same attitudes that we had then, with the same desire, the same rights and the same obligations that we had at the time. If you wonder how Serbian radicals will vote, our vote for Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia is given at one session of the National Assembly and never, but never, for no reason can it be withdrawn. If you need to hear again what we're thinking after these few months of negotiations, here, and we're ready to tell you. Serbia is a small country, in the most beautiful place in the world and all nations are good, and all nations are beautiful, and all are fair, and all are just, but somehow, the God of Serbs has determined to be the most righteous. And that's why Serbia has problems that others don't have. But so small that he gave his territory - he didn't. There is so little that there is a President or Prime Minister who will give his territory – it is not, because what they are, from this people they have come through, and this people, with the exception of some who may be able to enter parliament, but cannot be in the highest state functions, such non-birth, and Serbia is not a handful of teeth that hungry horses eat whenever they want. Serbia is a country, only made itself a few problems. It seems to me, the Westerners, political rivals Slobodan Milosevic, as well as the SRS-SPS coalition, have seen the political struggle as a struggle to life and death. They invested more than they were allowed to invest in the fight, so much so that today, seven years after the shift of power, all arguments for Serbian declines require from seven years on, not even in what they did themselves. Serbia is a country where democracy, import democracy, has been introduced for several years by representatives of the European Union, led by America. Serbia is a country that can never have a normal election, because you, dear DOS gentlemen, are able to tell Serbian citizens – if we win the elections, we and our EU friends will defend Kosovo and Metohija, and if the Serbian Radical Party wins, Kosovo and Metohija will kidnap us. So some people don't believe you, and you don't even give an apology to the people, at a time when it's obvious that you have some conflict with your friends in the EU, that something's wrong, that your friends are kidnapping part of the territory without you knowing what to object to your friends, that they are still a role model for you. We, of course, have nothing to complain about to your friends, no complaints to other people's friends. We address those who already plead as enemies of Serbia. Today we were told by the President of the State and the Prime Minister. Everyone is welcomed by the applause of their parliamentary group. That's how many of us in Serbia have split up. We have the President of the Republic to whom only his parliamentary group applauds, not all members honestly, I followed. You're saying that, or that the solution is unfavourable, you're saying that Kosovo and Metohija should be defended, and where are we in a situation where we defend Kosovo and Metohija when we have the Charter of the United Nations, when the world is built on the UN Charter, when our democracy in this room is built on the UN Charter? If we defend against the Charter of Kosovo and Metohija, what weapon do we use to defend against the UN Charter, what weapon does Serbia have available to defend against the democracy of the world, from the pro-Western democracy, whose whole heart longs for so many years under communist rule? What makes any idea of taking some of our territory, and why does the President of the Republic warn us of demonstrations in Pristina? I was just about to object to that so-called. To the director of Television, the public service of European Serbia, what he has for us to display demonstrations of Albanians, to scare Serbia that Albanians will react fiercely, when the president of the Republic, who says so, tells us so -- see what they do, if they do not get independence, to do. What do we care what they do if they don't get independence? And who, the dictatoric people, the people who conquer us all alive in the Balkans, who asks us how we're going to react if they take some of our territory? How come the West doesn't even care how the Serbs react? He knows in advance how they will react, and the peaceful Albanians, oppressed, humiliated, insulted, kicked out of institutions, out of the constitution, disproved, they say they will react by killing. Who's still here when there's a Democrats, but when's the undemocracy? Do you see that they only respond to those who have power? That's why you destroyed ours, so Serbia cannot say it can defend itself against itself. You have consciously done so since 1991, you have brought Serbia into opposition that it cannot defend itself against the weaker. The President of the Republic spoke today. Since I've been following these new, modern campaigns of yours, I've started reading these Western campaign books, which, I must say, I'm looking for a message, because in the election campaign you had extraordinary messages, Mr. President. Today you've interpreted some of the attitudes of Ahtisaari, but we don't have enough message. Serbia is asking for a message from its president, Serbia is also asking for a message from the Prime Minister. The Serbian Radical Party is asking for a message to know whether it will support it or not, and we did not get it. The more dangerous your message was in the campaign when you said, "Here, let me tell you, don't fool yourself, I'm not optimistic, I'm more inclined to believe that it will be independent of Kosovo than it will be part of Serbia." That is what the President of the Republic said, 20 days after the adoption of the Constitution under which Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. What was that signal for Marty Ahtisaari, that he was still strengthening attitudes, maybe he wasn't even sharp enough, look?- I'm sorry. You read how the Germans reacted when Croatia was to be declared an independent state in 1992. The Chancellor was surprised by the softness of the Serbian reaction. Now again, in advance, they are surprised by the ease of our reaction, because we are weak. Who should be strong to preserve the state, does it say anywhere in the UN Charter: "Any state that loses military power will no longer be sovereign." Is that what the Charter looks like? Do you want to be in a society like that? We don't belong here, because we're not strong enough and we're not stupid enough to participate in other people's actions against those who aren't strong enough. We don't need that. We don't want anyone to attack us, nor do we want anyone to attack, nor do we want anyone to help us when someone attacks. Yours on yours, let's stay calm. And our ancestors, when they came down from the mountains, caught the rally and the ox, they calmed down. It's been a long time since the Serbs are the climbers who replace the fighting and start wars, and everyone is on their way to intercept the Turks to steal something from them. For a long time, Serbs have earned everything they train, build or eat. But that's how the world treats peoples, for those who want to do something with their work and for those who want to rob something, and robbers are punished in the world. Why do you not have the courage to say – there will never be an independent Kosovo and Metohija? It cannot be independent while there is a Serbian citizen, while there is a Serbian radical. We have fulfilled everything the European Union has been looking for. Ratko Mladić was left hanging like a sword over his head. You know yourself that he can never be in The Hague, but the charge remains with Serbia, so as you change in power, those who were in power by yesterday are accusing this new one of not delivering Ratko Mladic, forgetting that they were in power themselves, making demonstrations to avoid being accidentally delivered to The Hague by any of the Serbs, but that's a fine story. While he's so-called. The democratic bloc in power, we will not punish Serbia for failing to hand over Ratko Mladic, but tell Serbian citizens, if the Radicals win, form a government, immediately punish Serbia. And what kind of punishment is that? Penalty against one political option. What have we done to your friends in the EU? Are we non-democratic, did I read here how your Democrats hold elections? No, we're not the Democrats, we just don't give what's ours. We're not looking for someone else, we're not gonna help them kidnap other people. And they taught you everything and everything and all these old ones, they sit their heads here very well know how to judge when the state defends itself. Each one of his own interests suddenly forgets the basic principles. And NGOs. There is no principle when it comes to Serbia and when it comes to the Serbian Radical Party, there is no human rights, no human rights, no democracy, no fight against the regime, all resources in the fight against the SRS are allowed. It's Kosovo and Metohija's turn now. Are we Serbia's conscience, so here we are, we say, tell us here what members and supporters of the SRS should do, what do you expect from 1,150,000 voters, say here clearly and loudly, and I'll come out here to tell you whether you have support for your plan or not. You say we do not accept the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Will you sign international agreements with Kosovo and Metohija? You say we do not accept the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but it is inevitable. Does that mean you accepted or not? I remained amazed, on state television Vuk Draskovic clearly admitted what you're doing. He said, "I am now sorry that I joined the request of my DOS colleagues to release his plan after the election." Why did you ask for the plan to be announced after the election? Which one of you knew what that plan looked like? What did you hide from the voters? Wasn't it better to tell voters - here's the plan, looking for independence for Kosovo and Metohija, let's go to the elections. Representatives of political parties tell the campaign what you're going to do with that plan, let the citizens turn themselves in. Some would say, "We accept this plan, one would say, "we accept it under certain conditions, one would say, "We do not accept it at all." Citizens could estimate everything. No, you've hidden an important fact from the citizens. Now let's break our heads, let that plan wait for us in this vacuum. We cannot hold a session of the National Assembly, we also invent rules of procedure, and agendas, and the Constitution, because Kosovo is more important to us than anything else. Yeah, it's more important. How long will we not have the President of the Assembly? Can we put any other points back on the agenda, can we put any law, can we make a choice of the Constitutional Court judges on the agenda? We cannot and will wait for a solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status. How do we wait for him, tell him what we're waiting for? There was one MP, well, he was a minister, now he's an MP, he resented the 2001 Radicals and Socialists coalition, so he says -- the parliament of Tungusia is discussing Kosovo and Metohija, we're not discussing, what did you engage in defending Kosovo and Metohija when you didn't have support in the world, whose support did you have? Here, I'm asking you now, seven years after that, whose support do you have? There's talk of the Russian Federation. It's time for state television to attack that it won't veto, the class says -- it's going to veto, it's going to be time for one politician to say -- we're going to have a veto, the other says like this, the third says so. Do we have an ally in the world to say – Kosovo and Metohija cannot be independent? Do we have a plan for the day after, here, I'm asking you five months later? Do we have any state plan on Kosovo and Metohija or are we waiting for the papers to be responded to? What happens the next day, if a state appears that says we accept Marty Ahtisaari's plan, we establish diplomatic relations with independent Kosovo and Metohija? How are you acting, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister? Tough decisions, but decisions for presidents. They're not decisions for ordinary people, they're not decisions for mortals, they're left to you. They weren't capable of running alone, they knew what was waiting for them. Many were honest enough so they said – I will not run, Kosovo and Metohija are waiting for me, I don't know what I'm going to do. You, in spite of everything, and I, have decided to do this job. This job is extremely difficult, however interpreted by the press, now you can see how difficult it is. Or it's easy, if you don't want to take part in your business. I and I accept that as an attitude and that defines voters for the next election, but at this hour, in this room, if we had Nikola Pasic, I would lock this door, you know how he is. But this room decides what happens to Kosovo and Metohija, in this room. If we do not accept the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but if you are absolutely clear about it, and you will have a decision from the National Assembly, if wherever you appear, we do not accept the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, there is no independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Take it, rip it, we'll get it back eventually, because if there's no independence, we have to get it back. Or you think there's no independence, but we're not going back. There's no independence, and then we'll get it back. If they ask you if we should fight for it, say, "Who else has fought?" Did Germany fight to bring down the Wall, did Germany fight to join the Saran and the Rural areas, did France win Alsace and Lorena by war? They change the circumstances in the world, 'If they came down, he'd burn up, he'd come down. '"It will bloom and our roses, as the people would say, "that's all we need to welcome together, which is why we need unity. Here, I don't use the words I use when I criticize the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. I'm kind of out of it this day. Everything seems to me that we should talk to each other a lot differently, of course, if you want us to have common views. If you don't want to, let's grab our heads. Since we are strongest, Kosovo and Metohija will remain within Serbia, I am telling you now. So please, our policy wasn't good, the people thought it was bad, and we lost the election in 2000. Your policy is not good, the people are judged as bad and you've lost the election. Do not humiliate Serbian citizens with the story of having a two-thirds majority. The two-thirds majority per night form a government, for one night. You are punished for what you did, perhaps for Kosovo and Metohija, and think about it well. We don't think we'll even pour you salt on the wound, or punish you, we're here to give you support. If you think you are defending Kosovo and Metohija now, you will have the support of the Serbian Radical Party, even if they never came to power, because this is more important to us than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29792	Thank you, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. Let's move on. I give my word to the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29793	Madam President, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party accepts and will support in this assembly the motion for a resolution sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Parliament. The motion for a resolution contains, according to the Democratic Party, two essential elements. The first element is an assessment of the important parts of the plan that the UN Special Envoy has delivered to Serbia, and secondly, the way in which our country should be placed in the immediate future that awaits us, the way we will continue to fight for our legitimate state interests and the way we will continue to fight for interests, above all, more than 100,000 people, our people now living in Kosovo and Metohija, for the interests of 250,000 people who had to leave their homes and their property in 1999, have left Kosovo and Metohija and now live in central Serbia and, of course, how to fight for the interests of millions of people and millions of families living in this country, how to fight for the perspective of every man who lives in this country and who is a citizen of Serbia. Many times it has been said and I will repeat the position and firm position of the Democratic Party. Our position is that Kosovo and Metohija's independence will not be accepted. I don't think there's any reason, no need to use hard words. Everyone has their own feelings for Kosovo and Metohija, everyone has their emotions for Kosovo and Metohija, but, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here, we do the state's work. The state's job, as one of my predecessors here said, is to take care of the interests of the people who chose us here and whose name we make the state decisions. Unfortunately, in the plan that has arrived in Serbia, as a result of the work of the Special Envoy, there is once an opportunity for Kosovo and Metohija to become an independent country. Of course we can't accept that. It's a clear and completely unequivocal position. This plan contains additives. Public life in a large number of areas is proposed in these annexes. It's been suggested that the police should look, what the judiciary should look like, education, health care. We wanted, during these negotiations, to determine what social protection should look like. That, unfortunately, is not in this paper. The proposal has been established that Serbia could help local self-government where Serbs and other non-Albanians make up the majority. It's been found to be local self-government. We have big objections to each of these parts, to each of these proposed solutions. The question is, how do we fight for our interests, how do we fight for more than 100,000 of our people living in Kosovo and Metohija being safer than they are today, how do we have a safe and normal life in the middle of Europe, here in 2007, how can they normally be treated, how can children normally go to schools, how can they get judicial protection, how can those who are unable to support themselves have the ability to help the state, how can the state help local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija. These are all questions we have to fight for. There's no other way but to negotiate. It's the deep conviction that the Democratic Party has and that I want to bring here today. That is why we have been fully convinced from the moment the Martti Ahtisaari Plan arrived, and today we are confident that on February 21st, we should go to Vienna, that those who will represent the state, which is the State's negotiating team, today should get a mandate for it, so that they can fight to protect the interests of every man living in Kosovo and Metohija, so that they can fight to open opportunities for the return of 250,000 people who are in Serbia today. Of course, they could fight for the state to preserve its interests. We have no intention of misleading anyone. Is there anyone here who'll say it's easy? Of course not. More than 6.5 million adults have the right to vote in Serbia. I would like to see one of the 6.5 million people who will say this is not a big problem. It's hard. We're not going to engage today, I'm not going to engage today in an analysis of the reason why it's the way it is. That's how it is, and we need to make a decision on how best to fight under these difficult circumstances. I think it is in the citizens' interest to describe to them, to be exact, the state in which we, as a state, are today in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. It's hard and we'll fight. We will fight diplomatically, we will fight with negotiations, because this is the best way to protect the interests of the people we represent in this House. I will not enter individual solutions, because our state negotiating team has defined the proposals Serbia has for what it will look like or what the police should look like, and the judiciary, and education, and health care, and social protection, how much Serbian and other non-Albanian local self-government should look like, that they should be organised and that Serbia should have the opportunity and the right to help them. We fully support that and that's part of this resolution. The position it proposes is contained and to confirm state policy on this matter. We've made difficult decisions in recent years, we've made difficult decisions today, and we're going to make difficult decisions. The Democratic Party will support and participate in a policy that will do everything possible to protect the interest of our country, to protect the interest of people in Kosovo and Metohija today, to protect the interest of those displaced in 1999, to protect the interest of millions of citizens of this country and to protect the interest and perspective of those who are to be born in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29794	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. I give my word to the chairman of the DSS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29795	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously we don't just have nice jobs, easy jobs, but sometimes we have very difficult jobs. This is one of the hardest jobs we've ever faced. We're contemporaries of this business, and we need to be aware of it. So what's most important to us, for those of us who didn't come to some kind of settlement, but in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, chosen by our citizens, it's to stick to those standards that this country has brought. So, not only us, but also the citizens of Serbia, which is this book, it is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It also hinders our discussion and what we need from this discussion to conclude. I don't think we can have any dilemma about choosing a goal that's ahead of us, because we're bound by that goal. With regard to the selection of funds, we'll do what's possible, anything that's possible. That's what we have to stand for. Is Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia? Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia under this same constitution, which says Serbia's territory is unique and indivisible, which says special legislation will be passed, in the way and by the procedure in which the constitution is adopted, in order to define Kosovo and Metohija's status as broad autonomy within Serbia. That's what binds us. That's what we have to talk about with those who unfortunately decide our fate and make decisions about how this whole thing has to end. Believe me, I'm sure it's just us who decide. I'm going to give you a little example that when we talk about things being difficult or when someone thinks they're almost completely lost, it doesn't really have to be that way or that it's not true at all. When our parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe, which I am currently leading, was in the Parliamentary Assembly faced with the motion for a resolution on Kosovo, they say only – about Kosovo, and it was proposed by the Scottish Lord Bronston, the Liberal, there it was that Kosovo and the Metohija should be independent, or Kosovo should be independent, because, according to him, it could contribute to long-term peace and stability in the region. We have talked to many people who have been in prominent positions in the Council of Europe, we are told that this is a trend, that it is a tendency, that it is a kind of support for certain members of the Contact Group and that this is something that must happen in the Council of Europe, as a kind of foreplay for something that will later happen and that it is impossible to change. For the past five months, the members of the Serbian Parliament and I delegation have done everything we could to put the vote on the crucial moment in that resolution, on paragraph four, which has inaugurated an independent Kosovo, it falls away, with 90:60 votes. It means that there are no impossible things and that nothing is lost. The problem I want to run here to make sure that when today's over, what we've done, that's how we're going to vote here today. I don't think it's questionable what we're going to vote on. This is suggested and what we have in front of us is well written. The problem is, we're all gonna vote here. Believe me, those who are hesitant or even think the opposite work directly for the benefit of this thing. Because when you reveal at least a little door to a great force pushing on that door, it won't be able to keep itself closed. The door's gonna break, and it's gonna break, and we're not gonna finish our job. If anyone has ever had a dilemma about whether any of the important actors in the international community will help us, I deeply believe in that help and that there are those who respect the same principles that we have heard from the introductions here. Believe me, in order for them to do so fully and in a valid way, they need to know that those they help are unique and that there are no cracks on their side. If there are cracks like that, we won't finish our job. It's a serious problem we're facing today. I could have talked about solutions now, principles of international law, but all that was said. I just want to say one thing here: we need to know that there are honorable goals. Yes, there is also something in utilitarianism and pragmaticism, as it is observed or taken, but there must be something called an honorable goal. Whoever doesn't believe in honorable goals, I guess he believes in the other or he's aimless. So there's got to be something here. We must, through the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, fight for Serbia itself. It's not just territory, it's essential, it's Serbia. We must, when we are fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, know that we are fighting, as is said here, which I support, for every citizen who lives in Kosovo and Metohija and for those who are now outside of Kosovo and Metohija, who should be there and not because they are being targeted because their property has been kidnapped. That's what has to go out today as a message from the National Assembly, which is not just an honorable gathering or a settlement, but what we have here today is an obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29796	Thank you, Mr. Milos Aligrudic. I give my word to the deputy president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, MP Verica Karanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29797	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tomorrow is the meeting. Serbia, after nearly 90 years as a sovereign state, marks its holiday tomorrow. I will not talk about history, about Serbian victories and defeats. My exposure will not be based on the record of tragic developments in Kosovo and Metohija, nor on the abuse of historical heritage and misunderstandings. We must look to the future as responsible people. We can learn useful lessons from the past, but in the end, we must keep in mind what kind of political heritage we will leave to our descendants. Only by that legacy, and not by the receptive speeches, will our European and modern Serbia be measured. Practical solutions to specific problems are the essence of G17 Plus policy. And today, that's how it is. We have a concrete document – a proposal for a solution to the status of Kosovo and Metohija of UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari. For the G17 plus Marty Ahtisaari's proposal is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because, according to him, Kosovo and Metohija with many elements of an independent state in the territory of the sovereign Republic of Serbia, which violates the basic principles of international law, but is unacceptable first because it does not guarantee standards that would ensure that Serbs live and stay in Kosovo and Metohija, while avoiding them, because we do not deal with the fact that there is one Serb in Kosovo and that it is formally in the composition of Serbia. With this plan, Serbia is in a worse position than the existing one, which defined UN Security Council Resolution 1244. On the other hand, if this plan were applied without the institutional assistance of the Republic of Serbia, the remaining Serbs would, due to their poor economic position, isolation and various forms of pressure, leave Kosovo and Metohija. That is why G17 plus today will vote in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which rejects all views that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Serbian state from UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's proposal. The G17 plus stance is that the solution to the final status of Kosovo and Metohija is the solution that will allow Serbs to live safely, dignity and prosperity in Kosovo and Metohija, the solution that will allow the return of internally displaced Serbs to their homes and properties. The solution must be reached by compromise, in the interests of Serbia and all its citizens, including all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. Protection of the interests of Serbs and their survival in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija are only possible in the long term if real sustainable economic development is ensured in areas where they today represent the majority population. Here we are talking not only about salary-based revenues, which would be paid by the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia, but about investment in infrastructure and economy. G17 Plus referred the negotiating team a proposal to resolve Kosovo's final status and Metohija, which essentially changes Ahtisaari's plan and specifically concerns decentralisation, discussed in annex3 of the Kosovo and Metohija status resolution proposal. The proposal G17 plus refers to the formation of a specific zone, in line with the decentralisation proposal from the Negotiation Team platform. The core sovereignty of Serbia in areas where Serbs represent the majority population would be possible by forming a specific zone, including the Ibaric Zones, which includes northern Mitrovica, Zvecan, Leposavic, Zubin Potok and Osojane; the Gracanica zones, which include Gracanica, Kosovo Polje and Lipjan, Novo Brdo, Ranilug and Kosovo Kamenica; the Priluže zones, which include Lanetin, Janjino, Church Vodice, Grace and Babin Most; the Strpce area, which includes the municipality of Strpce. Special zones would enjoy a special degree of local autonomy, special protection, and would have special ties with the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Specific zones would have greater autonomy and wider competencies compared to the responsibilities of municipalities defined in Article 3(3), and in particular in areas of economic development, police, health and social policy, education and culture. Special zones would have the right to receive technical assistance and budgetary transfers from the Republic of Serbia uninterruptedly, aimed at fulfilling functions under their jurisdiction. The institutions of the Republic of Serbia would have the right to finance the construction and maintenance of road and total infrastructure. In special areas, programmes from the National Investment Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which were planned and stopped by UNMIK, would also be implemented in the coming period. Special zones would be required to submit reports on received transfers and investments for record to the Kosovo Ministry of Local Self-Government. The competences of the specific zones would be financed in several ways. In addition to local taxes collected in municipalities in these specific areas, such as property tax and local tax, the additional original revenue of the specific zone would be – 50% of the salary tax and 50% of the profit tax, which are charged in the area of specific zones. In this way, Serbia would gain essential sovereignty in specific areas and establish standards that would guarantee the Serbs safe and normal life and ensure sustainable economic development. In addition to the specific zones, it is necessary to form more than 40 protection zones around key religious and cultural sites to protect Serbia's cultural and historical heritage. G 17 plus today clearly announces what he wants and won't do. But in addition, G 17 plus thinks he needs to talk about something else. It is essential that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia vote the resolution today and establish a single platform and restore its mandate to the State Negotiation Team, to protect the rights and interests of the Serb people in general at the upcoming negotiations in Vienna. It is of utmost importance in the coming days that responsibility and active policy be taken over, not only by the legitimately elected President of the Republic, but also by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which must be quickly formed, as all institutions should work at full capacity. Dear MPs, Serbia faces serious and decisive negotiations on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. If we have a consensus on national interests, if we have strong institutions that work, if we have a division of competence and responsibility and if we are ready for concrete solutions and compromises, Serbia will also have a better position for resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29798	Thank you, Ambassador Verica Kalanovic. I give my word to the president of the SPS Parliamentary Group, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29799	Dear Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidents of the Republic and of the Government, Members of the People's Parliament, of course, today I do not believe that we can say anything different from what we said at the last session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija. The National Assembly will confirm today, I am sure, the resolution we adopted at the previous session, because I do not believe that any state body in Serbia will ever accept or support anything concerning Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Before I say the essence of what is the subject of today's agenda, I would like to point out that it is no accident that Marty Ahtisaari's proposal came at a time immediately after the parliamentary elections in Serbia. It is about the planned timing and the destruction of the previous government of the Republic of Serbia and the holding of elections back-to-face, so we almost had a vote on December 31st, as for some parties only drunk people could vote. In any case, it is not by chance that Marty Ahtisaari's proposal comes at a time when there are no state bodies in Serbia that should give a clear answer to the question – what Serbia should do today. That's why we've been saying from the beginning that it's a matter of, if it wasn't for any other desire to come quickly to power, because if someone wanted to come to power quickly, you'd probably form a government right after the parliamentary elections. This is how we have a period when there is no National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have a period when we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia which has declared itself technically and we have, before us, a situation that we do not know when the parliamentary majority will be formed. I am sure we will also have the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be chaired by these people sitting here today. As far as we're concerned, there's no problem, it can take three months, because, by chance, our MP is chairing this assembly, but for Serbia, it's better that there are state bodies that can perform their state functions. Therefore, it is not by chance that some, back-to-back, as G 17 did, remembered that they could no longer support the government because Ratko Mladic was not arrested. Will you give the new government a condition that you will leave it in two months unless Ratko Mladic is arrested? Will you or won't you? Will you leave the government then? I am interested, as a citizen of Serbia, in what the representatives of political parties representing national minorities think about this issue today. I look forward to their announcement. There is Mr. Riza Halimi, who has been president of Presevo municipality for 10-15 years and I heard he supports the Martti Ahtisaari plan, at least sent such a letter to President Tadic. You, Mr. Halimi, are a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you support a plan that you want to break the Republic of Serbia. You can speak Albanian here. I'm interested in whether any Serb, if there is more in Albania, can speak Serbian? You are talking about the lack of human rights of Albanians in Presevo, you are calling yourself the Presevo Valley parties, and this is allowed by the Republic Election Commission, and Greece is being tried and sued with Macedonia, because Macedonia is also today called the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. You've been in power in this country for 15 years, and you're talking about not having any rights. How come you don't have the right when you're the president of the municipality? You've been the president of the municipality for as long as I've known myself, I know you, I don't know any other representatives of Albanians in southern Serbia. When someone says Kosovo will not have territorial claims towards Serbia, it is some comfort for Serbia, but that is not true either. Kosovo will have territorial claims, you know it well, according to Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. If I'm wrong, dispute my words, Mr. Halimi, since I don't know if you applied for the word. If not, I call on you to come out and say what you think as a citizen and a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone in this room ever thought that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija was a question of human rights or political authority, I hope that today there is no need to think of it that way. For seven years now, the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic have not been in power in Serbia. The demonstrations of Albanians who wanted independence began before World War II. They were also held in 1945, and in 1968, and in 1981, long before the creation of the SPS. When will you finally realize that it is not the government in Serbia and that it is not the problem of democracy or human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, but the desire for an independent Kosovo? It's separatism. According to the 1980s census, there were 70 per cent of Albanians in Kosovo. You're already saying there are 90% of them today. Could the Serbs have voluntarily moved out? Otherwise, Serbian villages and Serbian divisions are the fate of Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, the whole of Serbia. I'm clearly saying here -- the international community needs to define what it wants -- whether new examples of Serbia, the principle of non-violence of borders or the principle of self-determination of the people. He cannot find one principle on the case of Serbia, and in the case of the other states, the other. That is why our state should make it clear – if you give Albanians the right to a referendum, how will you rightly challenge Serbs in Republika Srpska? Why wouldn't Serbs in Republika Srpska have the right to self-determination? How will you rightly challenge Catalonia, Basqueia, Transnistria, Nagorno Karabah, the Turkish part of Cyprus? How will you challenge Northern Ireland? Where are the Kurds in Turkey? Turkey is in the Council of Europe, its representative was in charge, he advocated independence for Kosovo and Metohija, because there is no one to hit him on the head and tell him to give him the Kurdish example. Of course, I want to say that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we have brought together, obliges us to work together. First of all, the constitution was written by two political parties – DS and DSS. We supported him. Preambula The Constitution clearly states what Kosovo and Metohija is. We will support everything you propose in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. Everything. You just need to know what you're proposing and what we want. And that's what we need to be unique about. What's happening today is that of Ahtisaari's plan, in fact, it's a continuation of what is in Rambouille. It was then called "The Temporary Agreement for Peace and Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija". It was also a Trojan horse for the new Albanian state in Kosovo and Metohija. According to Annex 8, three years from now, there would be a final solution based on the will of the people. This today's solution called a comprehensive proposal for a solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija is not any proposal. It is, in principle, - take or leave, too, the ultimatum of Serbia. Ahtisaari made it clear that this proposal cannot be discussed. Only annexes can be discussed, can be discussed and changed only with the consent of both sides. Therefore, prepare for what will be after the Ahtisaari proposal is presented before the UN Security Council. Prepare for the option that the Security Council rejects this Ahtisaari proposal or that it does not go at all and that various states are bilaterally recognising independent Kosovo and Metohija. What are we gonna do about it? Otherwise, according to this proposal, Kosovo and Metohija are both in the internal and external meaning of an independent state. In internal terms, because it has all the attributes of the state government. He's got police, he's got security forces, he's got a security agency, he's got a constitution, he's got laws adopted by the Assembly, he's got currency, he's got a central bank, he's got state symbols, he's got Kosovo citizenship. In an external sense, all three features of sovereignty. He has the right to decide on war and peace, has the right to conduct negotiations and conclude international agreements, has the right to represent, embassy and membership in international organisations. If you have noticed, there is also reportedly something in this proposal that is offered in the area of the human rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which is 10 MPs in the Assembly. Do you remember how enraged you were when our delegation in Rambujeu had representatives of the national communities, you made fun of it. Ahtisaari has now proposed to you an even greater number of national communities. Why aren't you laughing now? Ahtisaari suggested that MPs, except Serbs, and Roma, Askali, Egyptians, Bosniaks, Turks, Gorans. How come now, when Ahtisaari proposes it, you're all serious, and when it was national communities in our time, you said it was made up, that it doesn't exist in Kosovo, etc. This is, in fact, the continuation of aggression on our country, which began with the bombing. The goal is to take away some of our territory. The government of Serbia or the Prime Minister said that, I think, is the DSS platform. I'm not quite clear, I'm not sure what part of it it is, that if NATO and the EU want to take away part of Serbia, that, in fact, the aim of the bombing was to take Kosovo away from Serbia. Good morning. So all of this that we're talking about is bringing us back to the core of the problem, which is that Serbia has to look for allies in the world today. You resented Serbia for having no allies. Who are our allies today? Who today in the world is an ally of Serbia, who is a friend, who supports it? Only one who supports its sovereignty and territorial integrity supports it. Believe me, those who support your reforms of security, reforms of the economic system, democratisation, human rights and you as individuals in political parties, while they advocate to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, are not our friends. They may be personal to you, but they're not our country or our people. I don't want to blame anyone, but with relations with Russia and China, you've paid so much attention that Miroljub Labus, as vice president of the federal government, in the middle of Moscow in 2001, said that we were only interested in Russia because of our debts and gasses. Great diplomatic move. Even the current president of the Republic, in his pre-election campaign, when he thought that America was a bigger friend than Russia, now he might think differently, I apologize, maybe even slipped away, told some young people – we're not going to study Russian, we're going to study English. And you're expecting in the Security Council the Russian "it." As far as we're concerned, we don't hope or expect anyone to help us, because it needs to help itself. Russia, China or anyone else, Spain, Italy, Romania, the countries of South America have their problems, and they want Kosovo and Metohija to be a universal principle, not a precedent. Not because they love Serbs or love Serbia, but because they fear the problems they may have in their territory. And therefore, we are against the impression that we are at peace with the fate that Kosovo and Metohija are lost. In Serbia, there is a growing awareness that all this is lost, there is a growing awareness in Serbia that the fact and political reality that Kosovo and Metohija are lost and, of course, it will not cause a revolution in Serbia. They also impose an artificial dilemma on us – either Kosovo, or the EU and NATO. Is there another dilemma towards the Western powers? Why don't they decide whether Kosovo and Greater Albania will or will Serbia? If the EU and NATO want Albania and Kosovo, then why would Serbia's interest be to join the EU and NATO? Also, demilitarisation of Kosovo and Metohija must be an integral part of the story you're telling. If NATO wants to take some of our territory, you need to suspend negotiations and talks with them about transiting their army through our territory. Besides, I don't know if that's possible, since the Army's reform is running a ballerina at the Ministry of Defense, as our army is currently not preparing for war, according to the defence minister, but is preparing to change the markings for its acts, as our army may have more soldiers who serve a military deadline and are preparing for picking corn and washing dirty laundry in hospitals and nursing homes. Who assessed, gentlemen of state officials, that Serbia should have 25,000 soldiers, when a Bulgarian, who has the same population as Serbia, should have 50,000 soldiers? Who's to say that? Who adopted that strategy? It is the power to adopt only the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Besides, this time, even more than once, you've been ridiculously talking about Resolution 1244, that it's a capitulation. I'm not saying that victory is neither capitulation, but I think that each of you would be overjoyed if the issue of Kosovo's status and Metohija were prescribed from United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, and keep that in mind when it comes to the issue of both Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, Ahtisaari's draft and proposal cannot be corrected by cosmetic changes, nor can it be corrected by the best amendments in the annexes of this proposal. This Ahtisaari proposal, if you noticed, has no preamble, because there's nothing to call for. Preambula serves to be so-called. a visa of legal, or constitutional text. There's no call for a higher legal act here. Serbia is looking for an answer to the question whether this draft is based on the OSCE Final Document, the Paris Charter, the Charter of the United Nations, the Conventions of the Council of Europe, bilateral agreements or United Nations Security Council decisions, because the same text says Kosovo's constitution will be based on the rule of law. Can a creature not be based on the right to guarantee any rule of law or the rights of national minorities? At this point, as you know, everyone ran around the world, advocates of independence, rushing them, as if they were in trouble, not Serbia. What are we doing at that time? We are at that time discussing whether the Assembly can meet, who will chair the assembly, how we will elect a president, how we will form a government. In the meantime, we're asking for support from Russia or the UK, and we haven't sent ambassadors there yet. Do we have an ambassador to Russia? Do we have an ambassador in Britain? Who will help us if we don't, or we estimate that we have no use for the foreign ministry, as you can see that an affair has developed in Slovakia about whether our foreign ministry, in fact, says that we agree that Kosovo is independent, as Kubish said. To make the paradox bigger, it is peaceful in Belgrade and in Pristina a demonstration against Ahtisaari. In Belgrade, we will soon organise demonstrations to support Ahtisaari, only so that there will be no problem and that no one will be in a situation where he does not receive Schengen visas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29800	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29801	Thank you, ma'am, for this warning, but this is another confirmation that the Socialist Party of Serbia has real personnel for this place. She is an extraordinary figure, but on the Socialist Party of Serbia list, I hope she stays in this place for a long time. I don't want to take any more time, because I'll probably get a chance to answer for different replicas. I want to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia supports any activity in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, but just as Russia asks us, we will support whatever you want, and you just agree on what you want. It's time to agree on what we really want about Kosovo and Metohija, what we want and what we have a unique position on. I'm sure most political parties in Serbia won't accept Ahtisaari's plan, but are we unique to it? What will we do if Kosovo and Metohija's independence is declared without the UN Security Council's decision? Gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, the people of Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian people, expect us and you to tell them the truth. They're not asking you to defend them, they're just asking no one to betray them here in Belgrade. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support you in everything that will lead to the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is a matter beyond any party issue. If Serbia is not there and Serbia is not without Kosovo and Metohija, then there will be no political parties in Serbia. Therefore, in the end, I want to invite all parties in Serbia to political unity on this issue, to skip the Berlin walls that exist between political parties and to realize that we do not need to make political points on this issue. The most important thing is that Serbia is not weak so that some other countries and peoples in the region are strong, and Serbia will only be as strong as it is unique.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29802	I give my word to the president of the Liberal-Democratic Party parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29803	Madam President, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think this assembly is our last chance to change the system of values, that system of values that, regardless of the call of the Republic Parliament, every MP and every MP has been facing for years the problem we face today. I don't think it's the time, and it's not like it's our people's MPs to prove our love for our country, to prove our best desire for every man in it, and I also don't think that this session should be an opportunity to confirm those divisions that were too much in the past and that are present in her work so far. I am sorry, but on the subject of Kosovo's problem, we do not agree with the kind of political unity that involves preserving the existing system of values, that system of values that its foothold seeks in international law, but that international law is not ready to respect always and without discussion, but selectively. We do not want to seek a foothold in justice which is also selective and which we do not accept as a principle that binds us, but also each other. We don't want to be part of a system of values that builds its foothold to escape from responsibility. I am sorry, if this session is not a place where we will discuss how to solve the problem, but rather a place where we will seek to push our head even deeper into the country's Serbian society, then the question is which will be. This is not where we need to discuss Ahtisaari, this is not where we should discuss his programme, this is where we should help the government, the negotiating team and the president of the Republic. I don't need to say what I think of the Prime Minister or his government. Every second of his power is a waste of time for me, but I think we need to help him, tell him that we are ready to change Serbia and expect him to give us a different political outcome in his willingness than what we are now facing. What makes this session different from the one in 1999, the one in June, or the one in February? According to which the session differs from the 2005 session, when a political project was formulated that definitely suffered its defeat with Ahtisaari's programme. We can't blame the mirror for the picture we see in it. We came to Kosovo in 912 years of war, left Kosovo in the war. The first one was liberating historians with it have no problem at all. There's a problem defining this other, whether it was civil, whether it was war at all, whether it was our war with the world. Until we define that second war, we won't be able to offer a solution to the problem we're facing today. What happened in 1999 is something we need to think about at this point. There's a political responsibility for what happened, no matter what June was the moon in which we declared our victory. Today we see what the effects of this victory are, today we see the effects of the wrong policy that took place from 90 to 2000, a policy that survives in that system of values that we want to change. We started defending Serbia in Slovenia. Who are we defending her from today? How do we create it? New conflicts with the world? That's right. What's our international position? Bad. For what? Where are our partners in the world? They're gone. What argument do we use? Manipulations. We see a chance in the position of a great country that says it will only accept the solution that the two sides agree on. So many times that number has been mentioned here, 15% of the territory. And how many human lives are there, both in Kosovo and here in Serbia? We need to change politics, that policy that made Serbia the most unhappy European country, that policy that was confirmed from mistake to error, refusing to change itself. If we repeat the phrases and attitudes of previous resolutions today, we should not go to Vienna. We need negotiations, but these negotiations only make sense if we continue with the new policy. We do not need a negotiating team that will go there to sacrifice itself on our behalf or leave that session and return here before us in Belgrade to tell us that they have failed. Who's asking us to recognize independence? It's not even formally mentioned in the document. What is it that everyone sees in that document? See real life: Serbia lost its right to manage Kosovo in 99. Resolution 1244, which was then declared by the authorities with its triumph, deprives it of Serbia, and it is clear that the document is primarily its function in amortising the government's transfer. The international community today no longer wants to be the one to solve people's problems in Kosovo. She wants to transfer the powers to Kosovo institutions. Let's see where Serbs are at that moment, let's see how we can be actors of this process, whether through a partnership with the world we can correct the position, whether with clear views, which are primarily directed towards consensus as a form of protection of the will of the majority, towards constitutionality, as a principle that will eventually allow Kosovo to experience it with their own, just like any other man there, through insistence on the principles of the 21st century and modern Europe that tramples the borders. Can we therefore step out of the defeat that has been taking place for generations? It would be a mistake now to accuse someone of 1999, to say that then Kosovo was lost, and the whole 20th century, 80 years before that of continuing misunderstandings and evidence, primarily by force and terror, that Kosovo is Serbian. To accuse the DOS of what happened in 2000 is also a mistake to date, unless the indictment implies the unpreparedness of political forces to change the system of values essentially. We want to do it. Two years ago, we came out with a clear programme for Kosovo. We said what every one of you is saying, but not for the assembly speaker, and we got support from people for that kind of thing, 220,000 people voted in favour of that policy, but we also got the support of those who are the most concrete victims of the existing relations of power. We've received support from the King's men, support from the people of Kurzumli, support from the people of the refugee camps around Panchev. That policy has to change. If it's hard for you to do it yourself, ask for help, but don't expect us to be the ones to patch the holes in the ice that shoots under us, because he shoots. If we talk about Kosovo, if we talk about Serbia, then the sentence doesn't start with either Kosovo or Serbia, the sentence begins – people, citizens and citizens. The sentence must respect this devastating reality, the fact that 90% of young people do not bind their future to Serbia, and they would leave if they could, as the Albanians are leaving. Why did they all leave this country? How did we become Serbia? By leaving a expense that no one wanted to take with them. This is the situation we need to think about. We do not find this resolution acceptable, first of all, because it preserves the existing system of values, it is not needed, it says it will continue with the political path that Serbia has been moving on for 10 or 15 years. If we're looking for justice, I'm sorry, there's no justice, don't look for it. Where justice is in that mass grave in the Belgrade suburbs of Batajnica, where justice is in those mass graves in Kosovo, and in Serbian and Albanian, where justice in everything that has been happening for years, each parliamentary group has an example of injustice, and it potentifies it and insists on it. There is no justice, you create a system of values and we will be able to feel the way people in the modern world feel, where they will first be citizens and citizens, and then Serbs, Albanians, Hungarians, Slovaks, not to add up. It's bad to take away someone's right to think differently. Parliament is a place where you think otherwise. Otherwise, we don't need a multiparty system. We do not accept this resolution and we will vote against it, because this resolution is an expression of continuity with a policy that has destroyed Serbia and that this resolution is destroying what has been created in Serbia since 2000. We express our clear readiness and provide support to both the government and the negotiating team, and the President of the Republic in a turn and change the political course. It is true that there is no president of the republic who will accept the document our president faced during a meeting with an international representative. There is no president. But this parliament must help another institution by formulating a policy that is the expression of reality, real life, not history, wrongly interpreted of course, not the past, which is famous, without controversy, but is also compromising. In 2007, a political shift, a political alternative. The alternative and that twist must have seats in a resolution adopted by Serbia's new parliament if we want new results. And if we want to repeat the defeat we face from generation to generation, then let it be the defeat of those who have so far lost everything. This must not be a defeat of citizens and citizens, and it certainly will not be a defeat of a political alternative that has the strength to develop partnership with the international community, both with America and Russia, and not by manipulating both, but by showing the ability to solve its own problems, which can develop partnership with Kosovo Albanians, which can offer Serbs real frameworks for normal life. If today Croatia is managed by the parliamentary majority of HDZ and Croatian Serb parties, if Bosnia is managed by the three-member presidency of Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks, then we believe in Kosovo's open borders, where they will be able to live and solve inherited problems both Serbs and Albanians. We must come to this Kosovo with a rational plan, which will allow us, by reason, to gain those rights for Serbs, which we lost by our unreasonable policy by making them victims in the former state's space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29804	A five-minute break, in accordance with Article 98. National MP Alexander Vucic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see the President of the Republic already has other things to do, as well as the Prime Minister. It seems that Kosovo and Metohija are not the most important subject. I came out for one thing that happened today in Novi Sad, and I am obliged to inform the citizens of Serbia. We in the Serbian Radical Party just recently received confirmation of all information, called on the Interior Ministry to give full information on what it is. Namely, after several days of threats from representatives of different parties in Novi Sad, before all the Democratic parties, but also other parties, after many lies, insinuations, media counterfeits and everything else they went public with, trying to make sure what the SRS accuses of, an explosive device was planted on Smiljana Kočić, the secretary of the SRS City Committee in Novi Sad, Kać. She, along with her husband, jumped from the second floor, saved her life, her husband was even more seriously injured, she fortunately did not. They don't have kids yet. Otherwise, the same house was on 25.12, with an undiscovered perpetrator, dropped Molotov's cocktail, also at the time of the conflict at the City Assembly in Novi Sad, when in the most dirty ways the representatives of DOS parties tried to find out what they were thinking of accusing the SRS. I went out for this pay phone to say that I hope this is not the result of last night's catastrophic defeat of DS representatives in a TV duel with Igor Mirovic, president of the City Committee of Serbian Radicals. I find it interesting for you to yell – the Rules of Procedure, that you are not interested in the life of a young woman, and you are so full of the mouth of citizens and citizens. And the life of a young woman and the life of a young man. Because when you throw explosives or make people throw explosives, then it's normal, then you're interested in the Rules of Procedure. If God didn't do something else, you'd be hanging everything in terraces. Well, that's what we're different about. I came out to tell you: we invite you to be calm, to make sure that everyone in Serbia can live peacefully and normally. We call on the Prime Minister and the Ministry of the Interior to do their job, to bring these criminals in more known rights whoever they are and to tell us their names, because there are no fake or real bruises here, but blown up and burned houses, to save people's lives by jumping out the window. If the Government is unable to do so, and you know that we always stick to the rights and justice, unlike you beatings who and this congregation have burned, we stick to justice and don't make us protect our members, and we will protect them because our lives and children and people in Serbia are too far from everything. And you can't because you lose the election in Novi Sad or anywhere else in Serbia that you think you can do whatever you want. I hope it doesn't matter or that it can't be connected to anyone in politics like it looks today. We asked, people don't owe a single penny, no one they've ever had a fight with, no one they've ever had a fight with, everybody knows them as good people, good hosts, like someone who's been happily seen by a guest. No one can say a bad word about them, there's no reason anyone else on the side can do it. Just think of those who talk about Europe all the time, about unity, about peace, about everything else to make sure that people on this side are the same as you, about blood and meat, and how we will never and never attack you, don't try to work with Serbian radicals, because we will ask the state to protect ordinary people and ordinary people. If this is not a state capable of doing so, be assured that we will be able to defend and protect each member of the SRS from everyone. It is time to end it and it is time for us to work together on serious jobs for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29807	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I give my word to the President of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, the People's Councilman, Lazlo Varga. I remind you of five minutes of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29808	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to some opinions, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is exclusively a matter of the Serbian and Albanian people. It cannot be disputed that Kosovo and Metohija are of exceptional importance to the Serbian people. For the duchy Hungarians, the emotional importance of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija cannot be as high as it is in the case of the Serb people. On the other hand, however, SVM believes that the solution to Kosovo's final status and Metohija is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the country is in a historic moment that requires an extremely large responsibility for parliamentary parties. Today we don't need to be too concerned with the past, but we need to draw attention to a few facts. At this point, we must not bypass the fact that the current situation is primarily the result of a wrong and destructive policy led in the 1990s, a policy of force and domination towards the Albanian majority in Kosovo and Metohija. Since 1990, political representatives of the duchy Hungarians have constantly warned of future consequences and self-destructive policies and have repeatedly insisted on a peaceful solution to all misunderstandings and conflicts with political means, with dialogue and respect for the interests of both the majority and minorities in Kosovo and Metohija. The SVM and the Vojvodina Hungarians were always against violence, regardless of whose political leaders at some point imagined resolving the agreement by violent means in these areas. We must be aware that the governments that have led our country since 2000 have worked hard to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia in the process of resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. The SVM has been in favour of our country's Euro-Atlantic integration since its founding. We are convinced that at this point this issue should be Serbia's top priority. Our country's European path is, in our opinion, the best way to achieve the rights of members of national communities, while at the same time the only way to speed up Serbia's economic development. At the same time, we believe that resolving Kosovo and Metohija's final status and restarting negotiations with the EU should be two parallel, interlinked processes. The SVM MPs at the moment see an extremely important continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's final status. According to our deep conviction, there is no other way for Serbia to choose a solution that would be acceptable to the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly. Advocating the widest possible spectrum of rights of all national and ethnic communities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija should, in our opinion, be one of the most important priorities of the negotiating team. We believe that the most important condition for the survival of the non-Albanian population in these areas is the establishment of an institutional framework for self-government in the areas of justice, internal affairs, health, education, protection of cultural goods, freedom of religion and official use of language and culture. Enabling safe life and rights to self-government and autonomy is the only way to make it possible to remain, preserve the identity and equality of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the return of refugees and displaced persons, and what SVM considers crucial. I would also like to point out that the SVM in no way considers it justified to withdraw any parallel between the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, if, during the negotiations on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, favourable positive solutions are found in the area of protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities, which are currently not applied in other areas of our country, these rights, adapted to existing conditions, must be provided for all national communities in the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of the above, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians can only vote to start new negotiations and find a solution through negotiations, after which no party will feel humiliated and defeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29809	I give my word to the Alliance of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29810	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want a lot of success in the new assembly. I hope we'll be more successful in the next sessions. At first, let me just say, I just don't agree with this agenda and this point, because for the first time we had a chance to see an important document. We all agree that a special envoy of the United Nations for the first time has brought out an important document to the future of Kosovo, and we do not have it on the agenda. We are discussing a resolution that should be automatically, by the logic of Mr. Dacic, that according to some automation and discipline of an earlier one-party, people accept. It's absolutely destructive, absolutely this parliament doesn't deserve it. It tells of the fact that in one municipality with 90% and more Albanians there is one Albanian president, and for Mr. Dacic's regime, it's amazing, absolutely no one in the world is surprised. He should remember, and Mr. Dacic well knows, that at that time as president of the municipality, with that little competence that the local government had at the time, I had above the head of the deputy chief of the Pcinj County, who was in charge only of Presevo municipality. It's a unique case. That's not what happened in the whole state, not to speak out in the world. That's the democracy Mr. Dacic speaks of with nostalgia. I think we have a document here, for the first time, that's more serious about solving a serious problem that hasn't been solved for a long time. This is about a policy based on the force of argument. I ask the question, whether that policy or reverse policy based on the argument of force has abolished the constitutional status of Kosovo, cannon methods and tanks. We know what happened in Kosovo in 89 years. The essential autonomy that Kosovo had at the time knew was destroyed, by what method. The whole world knows that. We are now talking about another approach, about the greatest achievements of international law, about the greatest civilization achievements, about trying to make a human solution and people living, and about all citizens in Kosovo being equal, and all minorities. By all accounts, this document now offers the widest frameworks by which international law is expanding. It is likely that this parliament will have an interest in applying this, that in the coming period and minorities here have similar rights now offered in Kosovo. As a member of the minority, I can't wait for these things to happen in practice. So I think why we've been discussing all the time what's not in the document, and we're not talking about what's in the document, and very important things are in the document. This is worth respecting and investing in efforts to treat this document comprehensively, considering, because it is really a document that treats, at the highest level, the resolution of a common life in a single space, in a social community. The term is not even used – a minority, it says either the non-Albanian communities or communities that are not the majority in Kosovo. It's about communities that are not the majority of Kosovo. It is mostly by the highest standards, and I think it is worth respect, effort and engagement in this House, and all directly interested parties to discuss and debate more directly, to improve modality, not resolutions to degrade the document, but to contribute towards improvement. I don't think this resolution is productive in that context. This resolution had no place in today's session. As such, I suggest that we not adopt ourselves and prepare ourselves to treat this issue more seriously at a more serious session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29811	Replica, the word has a People's MP, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29812	To me, Mr. Halimi didn't say anything new that he hadn't said before. I just want to remind him, since he's talking about the one-party system, Mr. Riza, I wasn't a functioner at the time of the one-party system, unlike you who were a member of the Committee in Presevo and a member of the Communist Union at the time of brotherhood and unity. On the other hand, you were the president of the municipality in what you say is a non-democracy regime. If that regime had been undemocratic, you would not only be the president of the municipality, but you can imagine where you would be. In any case, with the attitudes you have, it is confirmed that Serbia is a very democratic country. To go out in the middle of Belgrade, in the Serbian parliament, and to say that the Serbian Parliament should not adopt a resolution saying that Serbia will defend its territorial integrity and sovereignty, it shows only one thing, that Serbia is a democratic country, in which even in the middle of parliament, MPs can be anti-constitutional. Mr. Halimi, there is an Albanian flag in Presevo on the building of the Assembly of the Municipality when it is the day of the Albanian flag. In Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, the Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Bear was formed. There was a minister of police, and even if there are BIA people, every 10 days the weapons you hide and prepare for something are being seized in Presevo. What are you getting ready for? Who are you getting rid of? So, I just called you. I know what you're gonna say. Anyway, I think you, too, Mr. Vlahovic, know what he's going to say, because your party has similar attitudes to all other parties around Kosovo and Metohija. After all, Mr. Riza, in 2000 and 2001, when the famous rebellion broke out in Presevo Valley, it was not the SPS in power, it was in power of the new government, which you rebelled against, which you were freed from. Not only is separatism exists in Kosovo and Metohija. Separatism exists also in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji by Albanian political parties. (President: Time. It's no secret. Whatever you think, you have the right to think of it, unlike 250,000 Serbs, who had no right to remain living in Kosovo and Metohija, which your brothers from Kosovo and Metohija expelled from their centuries-old hearths. That doesn't mean you in Serbia shouldn't have all the rights. You should have all the rights, like all other citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. ) Just don't justify crimes against Serbs by the Albanian separatist army in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29813	I give my word to the Union of Roma Serbia, MP Dr Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29814	Dear Madam Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow journalists, I represent the Union of Roma Serbia, a party of people who have been without home and without graves for centuries. I am proud and happy that my people, before whom they were told by the words of our Nobel laureate, Ivo Andric, were always allowed to show themselves as they are, i.e. Blood under the skin, not having to regret it or be ashamed," he found his home in Serbia for the first time. I believe it won't be the first time and that this people will no longer be without a vote. Perhaps, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, he wanted the case or fate to happen in Serbia, a country facing today with a serious threat of losing its part of the territory, which would lead to many of its people, including more than 150,000 Kosovo Roma, losing their home and graves in which their ancestors rest. On behalf of all innocent victims in Kosovo, I pray for forgiveness and worship their shadows. This threat that in the 21st century, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the wall is raised again, visible or invisible, however, under which it will not be able to disprove the existence of a common consciousness, whose so-called goal is to permanently and systematically destroy the nature of humanity, which, by definition, is to seek agreement with others, is to cause deep concern in us. Peace can be built and achieved only in freedom whose foundation is true. Falseness can cause great harm to peace. Every lie is a step on the road to totalitarianism. It is regrettable that many untruths and delusions have preceded the proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's special envoy, UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari, which many truths and facts about the suffering and ethnic cleansing of Roma in Kosovo have been silenced and ignored. These truths and facts were exhaustively and documented in 1999 in the materials of the Association for Depressed Peoples in Gettingen, this text is in both German and Albanian, which is otherwise a member of the UN, Economic and Social Council and the Commission for Human Rights. The document announced the appeal of German Nobel laureate Guenter Gras, who wrote of Roma's loss in Kosovo: "There are still twenty thousand left in Kosovo, who are forced to live in a ghetto exposed to hatred and violence." There are then reports of Karitas, Doctors without borders, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are reports of the NATO ambassador, Mr Kai Eide of Norway. Peace, this master's work of mind, requires people of reason, who are men to judge what is right and just and to fight evil, not to do evil to anyone, especially by not causing even greater evil. Therefore, we have a sincere hope that the day will soon come when the force will come down from its throne and Kosovo will become a place, where those who suffer injustice and those who do not suffer it equally and punish those who do it, especially those who have created a law against the law and who are willing to build acts of evil on the works. Experience taught us and taught us: the more people there are here and there, in the Balkans, in Europe and the world, who are thinking about Kosovo with a cold head, but not without a heart, not without a soul, the less they will need firearms. Only these people can contribute to reducing the number of those who are ready for violence, which requires learning the language of hate and the language of freedom. Hate, ladies and gentlemen, is not treated with hatred. The dark cannot be removed by darkness. If the true and acceptable saying of the famous Gete is that war is "a paradise for criminals, psychopaths and scum of every kind", then it must be concluded that such people participate in peace talks, in peace processes it leads to peace. Therefore, it is necessary to give people a chance of good will, to people who have both in their heads and in their hearts a piece of heaven, and to hold on to state wisdom: who threatens peace or poses a threat and a threat to peace cannot be recognized. The following must be added: it is difficult, almost impossible to achieve lasting and just peace, if the mother can't even see in her dreams the cradle of her children, if children can't decorate the flowers of their parents' grave and bow down to the shadows of their ancestors. I cannot not mention the frescoes in the monasteries in Kosovo which, by their artistic value, are equal to the exposed works in the Louvre, in which, as is known, only a small part bear the seal of the French spirit and genius. This obliges humanity and Europe, which in 2007 declared the spirit and spirituality year, to look at the eyes of the spirit and the mind and life, and to the beauty and grandeur of Kosovo, because history has shown countless times that the spirit of men can fall into deep nights, in which they can be destroyed and destroyed parts of a man's day, so that for decades, even centuries, the leaves of history and traditions could be handed over to monuments and stones, stones on which it is difficult to build anything solid and customized. One Roma saying is, "Whoever wants to warm the world must have the sun in it." If the idea that Europe's culture can only be human culture is correct and acceptable, then it is necessary for the human culture seal, whose highest peak is humanity, to bear and contain a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29815	I give my word to the President of the Roma Party, Shin Srdjan, the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29816	Ladies and gentlemen, the Roma Party and how it understands the situation in which the Serbian people are in, and how it understands the situation in which Serbia is. However, we must point out one moment. I might prefer to talk today about the position of Serbia and the Serbian people, and if someone else had talked about the situation of Roma from Kosovo. However, as all predecessors have avoided it, allow me to present a few things in these few minutes. The Roma party cannot accept Ahtisaari's plan for one simple reason, which is not comprehensive, does not analyse Kosovo's situation in one comprehensive way and is not at all concerned with the issue of the return of displaced and internally displaced persons. The qualifications of "we'll make it happen" are nothing more than "we won't do anything." Simply, the Roma Party advocates that we must define that conditions will be created for the return and that there will be serious guarantees for the return of people to Kosovo, all those who want it and who express their good will to do so. Furthermore, when we talk about creating a positive atmosphere in Kosovo, that Roma can truly return, then we have to say that on this issue Ahtisaari's plan has not adequately respected the specificities of the Roma community, he has not respected the fact that 100,000 Roma have escaped from Kosovo, and something more, and has not determined a municipality in Kosovo in which Roma will be able to concentrate, and Roma in that municipality really can achieve all their human rights and all the rights of the communities that are spoken of in that plan. We are disappointed that Ahtisaari's plan does not talk about one strategy for the long-term development and integration of Roma in that territory, and we do not think that it has respected neither international standards nor the OSCE Action Plan, nor certain EU views, because we all know that Serbia and Montenegro have been pressured to bring a strategy on integration and giving greater authority to the Roma, and that the international community is now not doing so in Kosovo. We simply advocate that it must be done there too, because if this is the case in Serbia, if this is the case in Vojvodina, then I see no reason not to talk about it in Kosovo. Another thing that the Roma did not treat adequately is the fact that Ahtisaari's plan, when it speaks of 10 seats in parliament that do not belong to Albanians, is that there is one place for Roma, that this category is not dynamic, that this category does not define and does not mean the return of Roma to Kosovo. If the Roma return to Kosovo, then it does not belong to one place of 10, then it belongs to them more, and we think that this fact must be adopted, and that in this direction that definition must be elastic and it cannot be defined once and for all. If Ahtisaari is in favour of certain moments, for a certain state of action, then he cannot define the fact that he is today, that this condition is always and forever, but he must be seriously concerned with the moment. We are pleased that after our discussion, the negotiating team has brought into Resolution that the negotiating team will represent the interests of all non-Albanian communities. We expect the negotiating team to define all these things that we talked about as arguments in Vienna in an appropriate way. We expect that the report, which will submit to this largest home, to detail what reactions this proposal has come up with, because we simply believe that if it does not happen, 100,000 Roma will be a serious problem for Serbia, it will be a serious problem for Europe. We're creating 100,000 members of a potential social bomb, which is not easy to deal with. We in the Roma Party know that Serbia is not a rich country, we know that it cannot cope with all social cases on its own, we know that Roma are the poorest in the poorest state, and this requires a serious comprehensive plan, which they simply cannot bypass these negotiations. What the Roma Party will also do, in the next five days, we have a meeting with the European Roma Forum, which is the advisory body of the Council of Europe. Otherwise, all members of Serbia are members of the Roma Party. Through this body and through the Council of Europe, we will try to convince diplomats that they must support this issue. What I have to ask my colleague, Mr. Dacic, is that the next time he talks about minorities, talks about concrete minorities, talks about concrete political parties of minorities, and not to define what minorities are going to say. I am not saying this on behalf of all minorities, I am speaking on behalf of the Roma Party, I am speaking on behalf of the voters who voted for the Roma Party, and it is not just the voters of the Roma community, but all those voters who have recognised in our programme that we are talking about improving the children of Serbia, that we are talking about improving socially endangered categories in Serbia, so we have received confidence and we are talking about it in parliament. I also sympathise with this case that the SRS had in Vojvodina. I'm only fenced from this part where it's estimated who did it, I think they should do it by the judicial authorities. However, I think that in this House all together, as in this case in Vojvodina that happened against your member, we must also take care of any kind of attack. Unfortunately, I have to say that there are such attacks not only against your members, not just against the members of the Roma community, and that this is a serious task of this Parliament, that we are all really continuing together to create a legal state, a state in which we are really going to build a different future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29817	Thank you, Mr. Srdjan Shin. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all MPs. I give my word to Zarko Obradovic, the SPS. Please prepare Vladan Batic, LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29818	The Honorable Madam President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, often these months, especially these weeks, ahead of the adoption of Marty Ahtisaari's plan on independence, abroad, and unfortunately here in Serbia, too, can hear the words that reality in Kosovo is like that, that reality is clear, that things must be taken as they are, in order to essentially accept this plan, so that Serbia is demoralised in a certain way, in order to give up its right to defend its territory and population. I'm not saying this by accident. Let's look at how this reality in Kosovo and Metohija was created, should not be forgotten. Today is February 2007. The reality in Kosovo and Metohija is that ethnic cleansing was committed, the largest ethnic cleansing since World War II. The reality in Kosovo and Metohija is that there was an aggression in 1999 by 19, then the most powerful, countries of the world. The reality is that Serbia, and most of all Kosovo and Metohija, is 78 days and nocturnal. The reality is that 244,000 people, according to an official EU report, received in the Stabilisation and Association document, have been expelled from their homes and cannot return. The reality is that people were killed and kidnapped, over 8-9 000, and none of the perpetrators of these criminals were found. The reality is that their homes are on fire. The reality is the property was robbed. The reality is, there's simply no possibility of people coming back. I ask one logical question: if after eight years the authorities of the international community can find out the fact, black and white, that only one percent of the expelled and exiled people have been returned, does there have any heads in Serbia, does there have any man who can think that, respecting reality and accepting a plan without an international community, these Albanians want to bring anyone back? No, logically, because they committed ethnic cleansing. The fact is today there is no multiethnic Kosovo. The fact is, there is no peace and security today. The fact today is that people live in fear, live in despair. The fact that buses are stoned today, the fact that they are threatened every day is the fact that they don't have jobs. But what affects them the most, what we Socialists heard in the conversation with people, is when from here in Belgrade, from a comfortable chair or a warm room, they give lessons about having to respect reality and raise our hands from Kosovo and Metohija. They're not asking for help, but they don't want us to just give up on them because they didn't give up on Serbia. The reality of the international community, the reality of international relations, is the reality of fellow Members and fellow MPs that in 1998 Holbrooke spoke to terrorists. It's a reality. People who were put on the list of banned terrorist organizations suddenly became human rights fighters. The reality is that our country was bombed without a UN decision in 99. It's a reality. The reality is that human rights were an excuse, and that it is essential that part of the territory be taken from Serbia, so that Serbia does not manage that territory. The reality is they committed ethnic cleansing. The reality is they haven't changed their attitude towards Serbia in the past seven years. If we absorb parts of the plan from Rambuje, which talk about the occupation of the country by NATO and which speak about the right to declare after three years, they say, Kosovo, then it turns out essentially that this plan is now worse than the one that contained the way of life in Kosovo and Metohija. Ahtisaari not only gives a plan on Kosovo's independence and Metohija, it encourages violence not on Kosovo and Metohija. The other day, a Belgrade daily newspaper brought a copy of his interview with the Paris-based Mondu, where he says that if it happens that the Security Council doesn't adopt the plan, you know, the people are nervous, they've been waiting for something down there for eight years, so they have to react. It's about Marty Ahtisaari's attitude. After all, Serbia defends the right to protect its territory and to care for its people, and the same ones who teach us lessons about giving up Kosovo, for example, here's how they react in the same situation: Britain 20 years ago because of some few people, a little more country, and most sheep, fought with Argentina around the Oakland Islands. What is reality within Serbia? What can we and should take care of, and what can we work on? The fact is, we have an unstable state. The fact is that we have broken institutions, the fact is that we have no respect for the law, the fact is that by 2004, we have pushed the issue of Kosovo and Metohija under the carpet. It was not until after that March pogrom that Kosovo and Metohija started talking in Serbia. Until then, it was taboo theme. We have had more reports and articles on the Allied action in Iraq than on what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. The then Serbian government did not want, could, wanted, any formulation to take, but did not speak a word about Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is, we have a stable army. In the form of a transformation of the army, we have almost destroyed the essential army, both valuable and human and technical. We have replaced all the most responsible and most capable people to bring those who have graduated from school in the elite Academy of the West, and the question arises whether they have ever learned what it means to defend the country. The fact is that in Serbia we have people who promote independent Kosovo. We also have through political options, we have through people. We had a foreign minister who, after the end of the job, got a well-paid place in the structures of the so-called. the international community, which is talking about an independent Kosovo. We have a foreign minister who gossips about his country and says the constitution has not been adopted in an adequate manner. What then to say about others when our people speak of our country the worst? We had a gesture of goodwill and the release of terrorists from prison in 2001. We spoke ill of those who could help us. Today we heard the mention of both Russia and China. We spoke ill of our country. We simply have a weak presence in Kosovo and Metohija, and you can see that, ask people who live downstairs, everyone will tell you the same thing. We must ask ourselves a fundamental question: what have we spent the past seven years on if we have a plan that determines Kosovo's independence and Metohija? Serbia is reportedly democratic, how did those who supported this democratic Serbia, both politically and logistically, and financially, in any way, exactly give a plan for Kosovo's independence? Why is that not said in Serbia? The congregation has a great obligation today. The assembly today must, according to the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, show unity, unanimously vote this resolution and reject Ahtisaari's plan, to show that there is no division around Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. Because there is one thesis, certain circles from the West are always talking about democratic Serbia. Let's show today, in this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that there is no democratic or other Serbia around Kosovo and Metohija because there is worth only one Serbia, Serbia that wants Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. To show that this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is ready to respect the Constitution, to ask others to respect the Charter of the United Nations, and to respect international law, and to respect international documents on minorities, that all those world experiences, which are the highest experience in the world, are related to resolving the position of minorities, offers and the Albanian ethnic community in Kosovo. To show that we want to fight, however anyone understands the word, for Serbia's territorial integrity and simply that we want Kosovo and Metohija to be part of our country. In any case, the SPS MPs will vote for this proposal because Serbia must once say 'no', but of course also say what awaits us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29819	Thank you, Mr. Beard. I ask Mr. Vladan Batic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, it seems to me that today, in Serbia, we have a patriotism contest, of course by false, of course, cryptopatriotism. We have a repeat history, we have the re-establishment of that matrix division on patriots and traitors. We hear again stories about domestic traitors, foreign mercenaries, NATO infantry, the forces of chaos and darkness coming out of the mouse holes, etc., and on the other hand appeal to unity again. Whenever we tried to establish unity, it ended with a capitulation. Just remember the last 15 years and try to establish some kind of unity. It's one of the delusions. The essence of democracy is in diversity, not in unity. History repeats itself, and remember, too, that Milosevic did not want to receive Cimmerman, the prime minister did not want to receive Ahtisaari, we heard today, because he came in the weather, or at the time of the afternoon vacation. It always ends badly. We still have a repeat of events from the past, remember the government of national unity, or the government of national salvation; there was neither unity nor salvation. Now we're talking about a concentration government. Remember the archive footage of the Russian overseas fleet headed to the Adriatic to prevent NATO intervention. She never made it. Now we listen again: Russian veto, told me Putin on the phone, my mother, and then Lavrov came out and said – Putin never said he would veto. If the government itself has declared itself a technical government, the technical government cannot propose to parliament to adopt such resolutions because this resolution is not a technical issue. The technical government cannot have its representatives on the negotiating team, as negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija are not a technical issue. So, that matrix and the return of history are back on track and we have ranks in front of the embassies again, we have young people going into the white world. In just the last few days, you have read, changed passports, changed citizenship, Eklemovic, Puljezevic, Šterbik, are people who have celebrated our country. Natasa Janjic left and won the gold Olympic medal, but the Hungarian anthem was intonated. That's the problem, and it's the look of this kind of nakaradic policy, divided into traitors and patriots. One more thing to say, and a question to patriots, those who appeal to this idyllic unity, hypothetically, what would happen if Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija decided to participate in the institutions of our political system or local government? There would be 80 or 90 in parliament today, there are 1,400,000 voters, there would be about so many of them, if one number didn't come out, and that's a very clear calculation. Even clearer, in 15-20 years, the president of parliament and the Prime Minister would have had one. So would the patriots accept it? Of course you wouldn't, and of course it's fraud, deception and lies, cheap mythology. Finally, the story of Ahtisaari and his plan is to replace thesis. It's not Ahtisaari's private business. He didn't bring it from his home in Finland. He's an officer of the United Nations. We experienced this in the case of civil administrators in Kosovo and Metohija, I myself had a controversy with Steiner, with Hekerup, with Holkeri on the creation of our judicial institutions in Kosovo and on the responsibility of KLA war crimes leaders. But their policy, Petersen's, Kusner's and all of them, was absolutely identical. In the end, voting today is not a vote on independent Kosovo and Metohija. This is a vote for this resolution or against this resolution. This resolution resembles a list of good wishes, but I ask the question: what if these wishes do not come true, what happens first to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Are we going to look again at tractor columns with bindings on which it is loaded and part of our national pride, dignity, history and tradition and whether the people who offer it will then be held accountable. So this is a question about it, not a division of patriots and traitors.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29821	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, and let Mrs Vesna Pesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29822	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President, I will start this way - the special envoy of the United Nations has arrived in Belgrade with a slightly unusual offer for trade: Kosovo Albanians are independent because they so much want, and Serbs in Kosovo have human rights, which Albanians have systematically violated all these eight years. It literally means that one party, Albanians, gets everything, and the other, Serbs, loses what little it has now. This also means that all this time negotiations are not driven to find a long-term sustainable and compromise solution, but to find a moderation to make Kosovo independent, while Serbs gain status in the independent state of Kosovo. It is really very cynical for me that such a proposal is presented as fair and as a fruit of compromise, because Ahtisaari only gives to the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija what modern international law gives to minority communities anyway and what the state of Serbia guarantees to all its national minorities, and they are 32. On the other hand, Albanians are given virtually all attributes of statehood, from constitutions and state symbols, through the conclusion of international agreements, places in international organisations, to full judicial, legislative and executive authorities throughout Kosovo's territory, border control, airspace, military and police, and political forces, intelligence services, etc. Ahtisaari himself said that everyone has the right to read the document as it suits him, but that everyone agrees that it would be independent under international supervision. G17 plus believes that this proposal of future status of Kosovo and Metohija is unacceptable, because each of us knows what independence means, even if it is called conditional, supervised, controlled, limited, whatever you want. What we can and must negotiate are the annexes of this plan because, on the one hand, they offer less than our negotiating team has proposed, and on the other hand, there is room for solutions that we disagree with and that as such they are acceptable to the state of Serbia, especially Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, whose daily life depends on these solutions. G17 Plus came out at this session with a concrete proposal to establish four special zones, which guarantee the remainder of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and return displaced persons. I will refer only to some of the provisions of Ahtisaari's plan, from the annexes, because I think they deserve the attention not only of us MPs, but also of the state negotiating team, which should continue to fight to change and improve the solutions offered. For example, as regards decentralisation, the solutions proposed by Pristina, five new municipalities and the expansion of an existing one, which is the New Hill, although we asked for the formation of 12 new municipalities and the expansion of two existing municipalities. More importantly, all competences that are crucial to the functioning and maintenance of new Serb municipalities are directed to control, monitor and audit Pristina, so donations from Belgrade must also go directly through the Kosovo budget. The Kosovo Ministry of Local Self-Government can even lift an agreement on co-operation between the Serb municipalities in Kosovo and institutions in Serbia, if it does not comply with central Kosovo framework law. That's what you say in the third annex, article 10. In the section of security and rule of law, there is an interesting concrete solution that has come to my eye, which is the procedure for selecting the local chief of police. There's a two-way choice. The first local assembly proposes two candidates to the police minister, who, within 15 days, chooses one or rejects the list, and secondly, in that case, the local assembly proposes two new candidates, but they now have to be part of the Kosovo Police Service, and the minister should choose one again. In doing so, it is known that candidates for the Kosovo Police Service have a crucial role to play in Pristina and the police minister himself, which closes the circle. The annex – protection of religious and cultural heritage envisions the establishment of 45 protected zones divided into three groups, but in no word mentions the restoration of church property and land, nor does the Serbian Orthodox Church have the right to buy private property located in those zones, and will not be subject to restitution. The protection of these zones is entrusted to Kosovo police, except for nine zones, eight monasteries, plus Gazimestan, which will protect international military forces, former KFOR, only until the full implementation of the solution, which means the longest in the next two years. If we know that some 150 churches and other SPC facilities in Kosovo and Metohija have been destroyed in the past seven years, then we find it a bit strange for us to oversee the protection of 36 zones of the Implementation Monitoring Council, one body that will be composed of local and international representatives, with symbolic participation by one representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church and one expert from the Lipian Institute of Protection of Monuments. So it is obvious that, even in decentralisation topics and demand religious and cultural heritage, these are the topics most discussed in Vienna's negotiations, the resolutions under Ahtisaari's plan do not constitute any compromise but go directly to Albanian requirements. As far as economic-legal issues are concerned, some solutions are almost disastrous for the Serbian side, as all mobile and immovable assets of the former SRJ and the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, public enterprises and others, will be transferred to Kosovo, except for private assets for which Serbs should be elected before the courts. Kosovo's external debt will be resolved, it says, in the negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, on the principles of the former SFRY succession, which is not, of course, true, because Kosovo as a Serbian province is not a Successor, it is the former republic of the SFRY. The protection of private property, which is worthy of being sacred, problems with the flow of legal deadlines that led to the loss or illegal acquisition of rights due to the lack of free access to institutions, illegality and illegality of the privatisation and liquidation process, does not concern this part at all. It seems, in fact, that Ahtisaari wrote his solution for Kosovo before the negotiations in Vienna began. It is our duty, as representatives of citizens here in the National Assembly, to reject this part of the plan on an independent Kosovo and Metohija, but to renew as responsible politicians the mandate of the state negotiating team to make maximum efforts at negotiations in Vienna, as so far, to ensure that the final status of Kosovo and Metohija is the result of a compromise rather than a unilaterally imposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29823	The word is Mrs Vesna Pesic, and may Mr Miroslav Markicevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29824	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to really look back at the text itself, since we've heard a lot of general presentations. I would like to point out that this text has problems in that he does not believe in what is proposed here as a position to defend himself on February 21st in Vienna. You see, in this first position, the earlier platforms, earlier resolutions, the Constitution, etc., and then in this first position, where attitudes are taken about what will be spoken in Vienna and what will be defended, there is one problem, and that is very confusing for the citizens, when it is said that Ahtisaari's plan does not respect sovereignty and territorial integrity. Look, it seems to me from what I've been listening to so far, but it's not exactly the same thing, and here's why. Because we do not have, Serbia does not have sovereignty over Kosovo today. I ask the question: how are we going to legally build sovereignty in Kosovo, meaning what kind of operationalisation, how will this sovereignty be achieved? So that's what you can hear people asking, how this sovereignty can be returned, by means of which means, by means of legal means, by which diplomacy. Because simply, as we know, partly even this sovereignty exists in the northern part of Kosovo, means in northern Mitrovica, but I ask the question, how will the sovereignty of the Serbian state return to Kosovo? There is no operationalization, nor have I heard from others who represent how it will be achieved and how it will defend itself when our team comes. So that's one big problem that confuses many people, because we haven't had sovereignty in Kosovo for eight years, we know that there are authorities there and we know who currently has sovereignty in Kosovo. The second term that is also here, which my predecessor ended up with, concerns the issue of compromise. So more places are required to reach a compromise solution. We've never heard in public what a compromise solution is. If we look again at that first position, we see that our delegation, both our state and our state bodies demand that the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia take place and, as we know, in Kosovo, Albanians demand independence. What's the compromise between those two attitudes? So, we simply haven't heard, and I think that these are quite exclusive variations and that we don't see what could be between full sovereignty and territorial integrity and independence of Kosovo, simply, in this analysis, as it is set here, this compromise is not possible. So it would be good if we were to be explained and if, not only for those of us sitting here in this congregation, but also for the citizens to hear what is a particular compromise. These are some things that are repeated as pure floscules and really puts us in one inferior position, because we juggle some terms that simply don't mean anything and that's why I think this resolution is poorly written, because nothing is explained by what I'm asking as essential questions. I would like to mention that here it has been said that certain injustices have been done again, however, there is no interpretation of how and how we have reached this injustice. You see, I have to say, since I'm probably well known in public for some of my views, I'm going to repeat them, which was not good, and that some of the people, who were MPs in this room, represented the idea, the ethnic principle has been, please, since the early 1990s, the only thing that has led Serbian politics. So we thought Knin was in Serbia, because the Serbs live in Knin. So, who declared the ethnic criteria? Back then, I was saying, my people, we're going to go back to Kosovo, how we're going to defend ourselves, because if, in principle, big Serbia can be created, to Virovitica-Karlobag there, etc., because Serbs are reportedly living, only Serbs, on this ethnic principle, we will never be able to defend Kosovo tomorrow and say that this ethnic principle is no longer valid now, and of course it applies to us. So I'm looking here and I'm asking if the MPs honestly believe in that principle, that this principle applies to all and that this is the right principle. I'm just saying that I have a deep suspicion that this principle has really been accepted here as a general principle of validity, because as far as I know, people here represent the creation of states by ethnic principle, and finally to prove it through the newest constitution. We propose that Kosovo remain in Serbia, and by the Constitution we define Serbia as a state of the Serbian people. Practically, what is said as some kind of flossula that is not explained anywhere again, that we want some fundamental autonomy, so we propose a multinational state of Serbia, and if we propose a multinational state of Serbia, then there was no way in the Constitution to say that it was the state of the Serbian people and all the other citizens. So either we're going to be consistent, both theoretically and according to some political theory, or we're going to really play, and we're going to leave these empty flossules, which really embarrass us because they show one total inconsistencies. Finally, we hear very often here that something is being resented by some parties, that they are relying on them and that they are saying that we are going to Europe, so you are your friends in Europe. Please, if we look at the whole crisis from the beginning of Yugoslavia and its collapse, those who have relied on Western countries have indeed succeeded in their plans. Those who have failed to do so, who have been constantly on the ledge, we cannot even learn that most common lesson, but in this Parliament and today, the most developed country of the world, the most powerful country, are declaring itself Serbian enemies. Well, then Iran, China, etc. will defend us. So it's something that we have to essentially change, because really all of the values that we're up for we can't rule out a more developed world and then expect to be able to succeed in any kind of interest unless we find a common language with that world. At the same time, we're some group that doesn't have any common language with that whole world of Europe, and again, the criticism of it really falls into the water. I really ask that this assembly home be defined once and says what Serbia's foreign policy is, should we rely only on some of the President Putin's comments at the same time, or do we have a solid international policy that can really provide a better future for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29825	Miroslav Markicevic, may Mr Nenad Canak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29826	Dear President, Mr. President of the Serbian Government, today on the day of St. Trifun, gathering in the country's highest home, we who have gained citizens' trust in the January 21st, 2007 elections in a formal and legal sense have an easy task. We are ahead of us with a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal, according to Ahtisaari, a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status and a continuation of negotiations on Kosovo's future status. Why do I say we have an easy task ahead of us? The motion for a resolution contains only what is written in the Constitution of this country, which the people confirmed in the referendum on 28 and 29 October 2006. The motion for a resolution contains only what the UN Charter states, the resolution contains only what it says in UN Security Council Resolution 1244. All of these documents show that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the state of Serbia. There are no Serbs in this world who don't know what these documents say. Kosovo and Metohija are the most important part of our country and its status can be negotiated, discussed, but only as a province that is part of the Serbian state. Every part of our country that someone wants to kidnap is the most important. There is no Serb who will agree to something different in determining Kosovo and Metohija's status, starting from both his mind and his heart, and his soul. We MPs of the DSS-NS parliamentary group – Dr Vojislav Kostunica, starting with our electoral programme, our well-known views and beliefs, gaining the highest confidence of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, have a special responsibility. Of course, we at least do not dispute the right for all MPs and all citizens to care equally for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. It is, in fact, the most important thing at the moment – a unity that some seem to fear in this congregation. All our political and any other differences in today's session are irrelevant. The Serbian people will not forgive anyone for any indifference at this time. I am pleased that unity among almost all parliamentary parties exists among people at the most important functions in our country. Today is not the day to highlight the differences, today we are telling the world and all the citizens of this country that we are unique in defending our country and our citizens, in their demands to live peacefully in their own country, in our own country. We also respect the rights of all other citizens to live together with Serbs in peace and in a society of good for all. I am convinced that no child in Serbia will have a happy future unless the future has both Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija. MPs of the DSS and NS Group – Dr Vojislav Kostunica support the resolution proposed by the Serbian government, supports our negotiating team and we wish them every success and happiness on February 21st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29827	He has the word Mr. Nenad Canak. Please prepare Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29828	Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard with horror what Mr. Vukic said violence is emerging again in Vojvodina. But what's very significant is that according to the police report, it wasn't an explosive device, it was just a fire. It's okay, it doesn't look like there's gonna be anything either of us would want. But what we all have to ask ourselves, what has been done by the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica in the past, when the government has allowed a number of things that have been happening since the vandalising of the cemetery, since the beating of the actors of the Youth Theatre in Novi Sad, that all their perpetrators are photographed without ever being brought to justice. It is clear that it is a conspiracy against this country to destroy its institutions. This assembly doesn't have a president, this assembly doesn't have its own organs, we don't have a government, we have it when it's supposed to be assigned to someone's state property to buy it out. We don't have anything like that, we only have a vision of the country, and so does who. We have come to the situation that we should talk here about Kosovo, about Kosovo which is the same government as the one who handed over and sold Kosovo seven years ago, this same government is now trying to convince us to be post-festum accomplices, to be complicit in betraying the state, the people and all the values this country has ever tried to build into itself. That's exactly why I think talking about it today is too late. It's too late because when this constitution was made, which we got the way we got it, no one thought that this constitution would cost us Kosovo. If it had been done in such a way, if it had been done in the Spanish model, it might have been time for Kosovo to stay in Serbia, but now it is not because it is the fault of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and his government. Constitutional law passed by the same government, i.e. proposed it, the constitutional law violated Serbia's constitution by not stating the date of the elections in Kosovo, and thus clearly gave up Kosovo. Do we need to get chestnuts out of the fire now, so that all of us post-festum are complicit? Never.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29829	Mr. Dragan Todorovic. Have Mrs. Natasa Micic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29830	Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to Marty Ahtisaari's very proposal, I'd like to remind you of the consistent inconsistencies and various arches that the UN applies when it comes to Serbs. It became a rule that what applies to all others does not apply to Serbia and Serbs. That this shows the crackdown of the SFRY, although a crime against peace has been committed by the United States, the Vatican, Germany, England and other Western states, the UN has gone beyond that and recognised the secession of the former republics, within the limits established by former communist dictator Josip Broz Tito and thus rewarded the crime. I will remind you, in the 90th year in the Croatian Parliament, after the HDZ victory, Croatia's great Ustasha idea and Serbs, as another constituent people, are being kicked out of the Constitution of Croatia, and Croatia is being established as a state of the Croatian people. The U.N. will keep you Republika Srpska Krajina is created in response to Croatia's secession and a hint of a new Ustasha pogrom over Serbs. I'm Butros Gally in his report 15. 5. In 1993, more than 250,000 Serbs were expelled from Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and other cities, and more than 500,000 were expelled by 95. In doing so, data on exiled Serbs wanted by the Security Council, UNPROFOR and the countries they went to were not delivered to, except for Serbia and Republika Srpska. And nothing to anyone. The United Nations remains deaf, and to remind you, Kofi Annan at the time was in charge of the UN Secretary-General for Peace Operations worldwide and was well aware of the situation in the Republic of Croatia and guaranteed Krajina that she would be protected from the UN. In 1995, in two criminal actions by the Croatian Army, "Blash" and "Storm", with the decisive help of America, the largest ethnic cleansing was carried out in Europe after World War II. Republika Srpska's Krajina is occupied, although it was under UN protection, and more than 500,000 Serbs were expelled at the time. Remember only pictures of then-American ambassador to Zagreb Peter Galbrate in the Ustasha tank. To this day, less than five percent of the exiles have returned to the occupied Republika Srpska Krajina and Croatia, and those who return today are killing and scrambling. In 1996, The Dayton Agreement in the former BiH created two equal entities, the Republika Srpska and the Muslim-Croatian Federation, with almost the same number of inhabitants and territories, so that today Republika Srpska would face a complete shut-down and a direct violation of the Dayton Agreement by senior EU representatives. Just remember Paddy Ashdown, the one who visited the Cypriot terrorists and who lied in The Hague. They insist, in every way possible, that Republika Srpska be declared a genocide to completely disappear. I remind you, during the war, both Muslims and Croats, when they fled from each other or from their own, fled to the Serbs. When the breakdown of the SFRY, the occupation of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska almost shut down, the SRJ breaks down, Montenegro separates, and the UN does the same thing through its representatives in Kosovo and Metohija as the EU's senior representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, only in the opposite direction. They are shutting down Republika Srpska, and in Kosovo and Metohija they are creating, in the sovereign territory of Serbia, another Albanian state. In doing so, they violate the UN Charter and the provisions of international law. Why is Resolution 1244 not respected? How could the UN not respect their own resolution? Why do they only ask Serbia to fulfil its obligations? Resolution 1244 is not a peace treaty between the SRJ and the UN, because the two sides were not even at war, but the end of NATO's criminal aggression against the SRJ, and it is under the threat of Martti Ahtisaari that Belgrade and Serbia will be completely destroyed if they do not accept that they stop defending themselves. Because it is the greatest crime for the creators of the new world order, to defend your people and your country, there is no greater crime for them, and there is no punishment that is sufficient to repent such sin. What is the basic content of Resolution 1244? Serbia is sovereign, its borders are invulnerable, the return of the military and the police. It is the eighth year that the UN's commitment is not fulfilled. How can anyone seriously be sure that the UN will respect a new resolution, especially us Serbs, with almost a 20-year experience of fraud and fraud by the UN. Do they think we're going to fall for old fraud, Markale, conclogor and similar shows for the world, as well as the latest protests in Pristina against the Martti Ahtisaari plan, so that the world is supposed to convince that the plan is impartial and that once again, only Serbs do not wrongly accept good intentions to solve their problems. At the very end of a criminal attack on Serbia, he must justify himself. The only excuse is Serbia's consent. That is why Serbia must not agree, because of its past, its present and its future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29831	There's four and a half minutes left. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29832	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Technical Prime Minister, members of the negotiating team, this is already the third resolution of this government whose adoption I am present with and, as I could not vote for previous resolutions, so I will not vote for this one, for the simple reason that this resolution, in fact, defends one policy, devastating and wrong, and this decades-old wrong policy, which has particularly escalated in the 1990s, not only by enmity between the two peoples, but also by war crimes, the spread of the face and the international protectorate. So that's the facts. The second thing, this resolution bears the name – a proposal for a comprehensive solution, and we do not, in fact, see or see it at all. I understand some arguments that some diplomatic and legal means must be a secret, but not as if it were about, I don't know, the secret weapon of Nicola Tesla. The third, most important, thing that makes me unable to support this resolution is the fact that no sentence, half-words or words mention Serbs living in Kosovo, and we think it is a priority and we think that the negotiating team should, in fact, focus on the better situation of Serbs in Kosovo. That is why our coalition cannot agree to this unity and this assembly, which, unfortunately, has cost only citizens and citizens of Serbia every time in Serbia, and this time, it seems, unfortunately, will cost Serbs living in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29833	Thank you, Mrs. Natasha. The word is Mr. Zvonimir Stevic, and to prepare Stojanka Petkovic. Here you go. The remaining SPS time is only ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29834	The President-in-Office, Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic of today's debate is a question of fate for Serbia. The proposal that UN envoy for Kosovo status Martti Ahtisaari delivered to both sides can be immediately said that the Kosovo Serbs are unacceptable. This is because the basic settings of this solution are nothing more than the introduction of independence for a part of our state territory. There is no more important national and national task than opposing this solution that is devastating, not only for more than 120,000 Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, but also for more than 230,000 exiled who have hoped to return to their hearths. Nothing less affects this solution and the rest of the Serbian National Corps, which can never and can never be reconciled to the fact that an imposed solution cuts off a part of the being. On the other hand, Albanian officials generally express satisfaction over the proposal and already provide details of the future state of Kosovo's appearance. Protests organised by the Association "Self-determination" Albin Kurtija in recent days are only part of completing the scenario of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. The superficial interpretation of Ahtisaari's proposal notes that the proposed solutions introduce a regulation on the protection of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. However, it is only an additional measure of blurring and detachment from Resolution 1244, and it is not necessary to explain to what extent a solution is offered in contrast to the Assembly's resolution on the mandate for political negotiations on Kosovo's future status and Metohija. Ahtisaari's proposal plans a quick adoption of a constitution in Kosovo's parliament that, no doubt, would define Kosovo's first member as an independent state. This, in addition to the possibility that Kosovo has concluded international agreements, has served Agim Ceku to immediately explain that Kosovo's independence is not only the interest of its citizens but also of the international community, because with international forces, partnership has been built since 1999, so the episode needs to be ended with a favourable solution for Kosovo Albanians. Therefore, the attributes of statehood that will only be verified by the constitution, and then independence, which the statehood implies, and the regulation of the police by itself, the judiciary and the regulation of other pillars of statehood completely undermine what is offered in the decentralisation area when it comes to environments with the Serb majority population. The Albanian side's promises cannot be trusted when it is known that even in the application of constitutional frameworks, efforts to meet standards first are not respected, so the status talks and many other promises by the Albanian side have not been met. So with the return of Serbs from the Kosovo and Metohija areas, out of 230,000 exiled to Cosmet, only a few thousand returned. Neither are promises of employment of Serbs nor in other areas. So in front of you, as well as Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, I ask whether something has now changed with regard to our adopted document in this assembly home and whether someone has a mandate to move away from the resolution we adopted. Let me tell you right now that I am asking you a question on behalf of Serbs from central Kosovo, but also other parts of Kosovo and Metohija, which have been without a peaceful dream for the past seven and a half years, under constant danger of life endangering, with an uncertain outcome for tomorrow. It's well known that we're being followed by a dozen other calamities, the basic human rights are being violated, the right to work has been abolished. Serbs live in conditions of unworthy people, without electricity and water, with limited treatment opportunities, schooling children, farming land. In the name of perseverance, courage and dignity of these people, I am obliged to ask here an additional question of what promises can be made to Serbs in Cosmet if they still resort to an imposed solution from the international community? What should the Serbs from Cosmet do in that case? Do our top officials, including the president of the state and prime minister, have any acceptable solutions? Because to be extremely honest, the question is inevitable and stems from conversations with citizens, and it is imposed on almost every opportunity. How will Serbia survive in Kosovo and Metohija if it is no longer part of Serbia? Could they make peace with the fact that in the future they were protected by a people's new army of Kosovo, when they experienced the effects of the March 2004 pogrom on their skin. These days, concerns, uncertainty and dilemmas are seen among Serbs in Cosmet if they happen, without our will, to impose a status solution. The state summit would have to offer some solution to how to live on in Cosmet in that case. There's got to be some way out, and I don't think he can be in a collective village, which is also heard amongst the troubled and anxious of our people these days. General psychosis and infidelity only further strengthens here and there present information about the possible division of Cosmeta. In no way can Serbs be satisfied with the attempt by the new colourful lies that, according to international community officials, they have received special protection in the Ahtisaari plan. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS believes these questions require our answer as well. I mean this assembly, but also more offensive, diplomaticly intense interstate activity. All state institutions need to make their detailed plans, which would thus enable the need to protect Serbs from Cosmeta and strengthen their overall position. I know that at this point, when the government is not yet formed, it is a daunting circumstance, but to say immediately that when it comes to the position of the Serbs in Cosmet, it is necessary to abandon the party interests because, again, I underline, it is a fateful state and national issue. That is why I call on you, fellow MPs, to express in this highest house the full unity that we need more than ever before, and to put ourselves all in a unique column for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, with the highest degree of autonomy offered to Albanians, in intervening the international community. Because, in the end, Kosovo and Metohija were bombed and Serbia, and all of the flossules about the new democratic authorities being the force that will solve the Kosovo issue are falling into the water. Dear gentlemen, you have no right to play with our fate in Kosovo and Metohija. Do not defend Kosovo and Metohija in Belgrade. In the election campaign you were full of Kosovo and Metohija's mouth, the honorary exceptions from leadership skipped Ibar. It's not just my Kosovo and it's not just ours, Kosovo and Metohija are yours, but we live downstairs, and you're not down there now that we're having the hardest time. Where are the ministers? Where are the gentlemen assistant ministers? After seven years, I've been listening to democratic authority here: "it's the previous regime"; so seven years have passed. Say one segment, one area where, in a positive sense, our life has changed down there. You should come down to Gracanica, to Strpce, to Shilovo, to Velika Hotch, to Gorazdevac, to Ranilug, to be ten days; and you will see how this people live, and what endures. Ahtisaari's solutions suggest a small door to introducing statehood for Kosovo and Metohija. It is even weirder to hear from US officials these days that Kosovo and Metohija status should be resolved as soon as possible, as Albanians allegedly threaten violence, a threat to the stability of the Balkans. So there is a legitimate question why there is no concern about the interest of eight million Serbs, who want to take away part of the territory, and what kind of disturbance it might cause in Europe and other parts of the world, because it is quite clear that the solution offered is not based on the provisions of international law and the Helsinki Charter. The instruments that we have parliament, government, diplomacy, so let's see, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have scheduled a rally for February 27th in front of the US Embassy against the Martti Ahtisaari plan, I think this is an opportunity and a moment to gather all sorts of Serbian people, and to clearly define ourselves, and to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29835	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The word is Stojanka Petkovic. Please prepare Vuko Antonievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29836	President-in-Office, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, I am Stojanka Petkovic, MP G17 plus from Zvecan from Kosovo and Metohija. The solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status is one of the most difficult historical issues facing the Serbian people and states of Serbia. The Martti Ahtisaari plan gives a unilateral approach to the Albanian community, because they have given all attributes of constitutionality and statehood, some form of independence, and as such for the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija is completely unacceptable, especially in attitudes that violate the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. As for the status solution for Kosovo and Metohija, any solution must be in agreement with international law, where a strong diplomatic action must be taken urgently at all levels to keep Kosovo within Serbia's borders. G17 Plus advocates a peaceful and compromise solution, agreed between Albanians and Serbs, where there will be no winners and losers, for a real solution that will bring peace and stability to both Kosovo and the whole region, where all Serbs will preserve their pride and Serbia will preserve its face. What else is so important right now? The negotiating team must stand out for economic prosperity and the financial position of the Serb people in special areas in KIM, where maximum authority in the area of justice, security and local self-government must be provided. It must advocate the financing of all institutions that Serbia has financed so far, and is meant for education, health care, local self-government and social protection, where there would be a vertical link with Serbia. To fight for proper decentralisation and the possibility of connecting municipalities with the majority Serb population in special areas, financing through the National Investment Plan, in infrastructure, in housing, in employment, in creating living conditions for Serb living in Kosovo, without monitoring Pristina, because it is the only solution. It is the only way that Serbs can remain in those areas. Otherwise, a new exodus will start and Serbs will not be in Kosovo. As long as we Serbs are in Kosovo, so will the state of Serbia be present in the area. Dear MPs, today I would like to send a strong message from this speaker to all Serbian politicians, parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties in Kosovo and Metohija. Brothers and sisters, parliamentary elections have passed. The moment has come when the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija cannot be divided by party membership. We must unite. No fear, no panic. This is our fight, for our own survival in Kosovo, for us, for our children, for our Kosovo, for our property, because no one will preserve it for us, and for Belgrade, if we are contented and divided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29837	Thank you. The word has Vuko Antonijevic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29838	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished guests, respected MPs, the proposal for a plan by Martti Ahtisaari to resolve Kosovo's future status and Metohija is a political aggression and brutal opposition to Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, which must seek to take 16% of its territory against not only the unanimous adoption of this resolution in the Serbian parliament, but also any other legitimate means that both the Serbian Constitution and international law in defence of the state. Ahtisaari's plan is made up as a final framework for the formation of another Albanian state in the Balkans, but in this case in Serbia's territory, which appears to be bombed in the 1990s for the occupation and kidnapping of its territory, i.e. on behalf of the persecution of the Kosovo Serbs and the achievement of the goals of Albanian separatists and their mentors. Finged by the dissatisfaction of Shipara in Pristina, Martti Ahtisaari suggests to the international community that his plan is allegedly balanced, although it is obvious that it is solely anti-Serbian in all parts. It is a naked farce and a joint attempt by Ahtisaari and Shipara to promote an absurd rule that there is no national minority right to self-determination above the sovereignty of the state in which the minority lives. The survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the preservation of Cosmet is possible only if the government of Serbia, the assembly and the Serbian negotiating team in the coming period are consistent in the view that it is absolutely unacceptable no form of independence for the southern Serbian province. That is why Serbs with KIM require their country to ignore, as so far, a number of cynical and offensively formulated Serbia's encouragement on its way to Europe, which is essentially a disastrous political compensation offer to the Serbian state to give up almost a sixth of its territory for EU membership. By insisting exclusively on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, our country has narrowed down the pro-Albanian and anti-Serbian political diversion of Martti Ahtisaari and at the same time provided full support, not only for Russia, China, but for many EU members. The hard-earned political capital, which is being targeted these days by overseas and other advocates of independent Kosovo, must be preserved and increased not only for Cosmeta's sake, but also for Serbia's sake as a whole. Serbia's state negotiating team must insist that key provisions of Resolution 1244 be implemented without delay, especially one that provides for the return of a certain Serb military and police contingent to Kosovo and Metohija. This must be insisted because it is one of the preconditions for the return of more than 250,000 displaced Serbs, who, in addition to terror, unremembered in recent history, have driven over 50,000 to the teeth of armed KFOR members. They observed the terror of the Cypriots uninterestedly on 17 March 2004, and the Serbian state must no longer allow such a thing to happen again at any cost. His disquieting with Ahtisaari's plan, Kosovo-Methohic Serbs will protest ahead of the US Embassy on February 27th at 2.30 p.m., wanting to give official Washington a message to stop encouraging the Cypriot separatists, i.e. that kidnapping the territory of Serbia's sovereign state cannot be accepted as collateral damage to the US vision of the Balkan democracy. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija rightly expect all MPs of the Serbian parliament, as well as citizens of Belgrade and other Serbian cities, who do not settle with attempts to amputate the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29839	Thank you, Mr. Antonievich. The word has Natasa Jovanovic, and let Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29840	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the plan brought to Belgrade by Martti Ahtisaari, the UN Security Council Special Envoy, or the Secretary-General, stemmed from the broadest context of US and Western policy, which is being conducted in the area of the former Yugoslavia and Serbia back 15 years and over. This is no surprise to us, nor to me as a representative of the largest political party in Serbia, the one that still shows state wisdom today and that our country's territory, the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and territorial integrity is the most important and key national and state issue. On the basis of the discussions, and I wouldn't mention it if some MPs didn't suffer from amnesia or think the people had a short memory, I have to remind you, colleagues, because many of you have now returned to the assembly benches, that in 2001, during the government of DOS, when you were 176 in the National Assembly, unanimously voted the Declaration that we rejected so-called. Constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija proposed by then's envoy, Hackerup. Now it's really amazing that you're not paying attention to the explicitity of a part of Ahtisaari's plan that predicts the ultimate that our southern province has its own constitution. In the annexes of the plan, he is working precisely on all the prerogatives of the state government, apparently completely independent state, in which way and in what stages it will be implemented. He did not come to Belgrade, and he did not give an interview in Belgrade or Pristina to speak in a wrapped form, but said someone mentioned it today depends on who interprets the document. We only interpret as it's written. We don't have and we won't have any dilemmas at any time when this debate is over. We Serbian radicals have never had it, but all of you from this hall, and you who do not vote and you who vote for this resolution, as it emerged from the previously adopted platform of the State Negotiation Team, from a report submitted by the team on September 12th last year, now we can only tell the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, Martti Ahtisaari and the United Nations, the whole so-called. to the international public what will happen. Nothing beyond that can happen without state officials, the president of the Republic, who left the hall two hours ago, the Prime Minister and the State Negotiating Team, who are renewing the mandate for the negotiations, acting that way. Then it's completely pointless to speculate on what's going to happen and what's going to happen until the end of this debate. It's all right here, it's clearly explained, and it's the only way you have to negotiate, that's how you behave. In the beginning and the first encounter, if that's February 21st, you have to tell Marty Ahtisaari you're starting from scratch. What we are going to adopt tonight with the broadest consensus, except for some exceptions that obviously do not understand what happened in the previous period and that in 2001 and 2002 they voted in favour of resolutions that rejected the imposition of a solution for our southern province, then you have a commitment both to this highest legislative body and to the state of Serbia, in front of the entire Serbian people to behave accordingly. Why, when we received the motion for this resolution, did the president of our parliamentary group and the deputy president of our party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, insist on certain precision? Because these exactities and a few words in sentences in certain passages of the text of this resolution clearly state what you need to do, and there is no other. So you're meeting, it's not a hypothesis, it's something that's going to happen in a certain number of days, you're leaving and you're sitting across from Marty Ahtisaari. Will he symbolically wear a red tie, along with Shiptar political representatives who are dressed as terrorists, as happened last time, to show solidarity, to see that there is a combination of diplomatic pressure and pressure on the force... And, don't be so naive and think, what we told you a few days ago, it's so-called. The terrorist movement Liberation of that demonstration organised self-initiativeally, that it wasn't involved in America's fingers, first of all, the CIA and the Western forces. Of course they are, because through this vision and a combination of pressures, in a situation where the prime minister, technically or valid, whatever you think you are, the president of the state and all those involved in the State Negotiation Team refuse to directly tell Ahtisaari that it is unacceptable and before this resolution is passed, you could have done all this without this document, which is now absolutely and completely binding, they use this vacuum and that time to act in the way their military and political mentors advise them. Four hundred thousand long and short pipes in Kosovo and Metohija, terrorist separatists are rampant everywhere, ready to re-emerge on the Serb population that is unprotected, and you are dealing with issues about how you will announce Ahtisaari. Or maybe you have a dilemma in your head, all this time, that this document that he brought before us was unacceptable. You can start not from scratch, but to talk, because you reject 99% of his plan that directly penetrates territorial integrity, which directly means secession, which he admits, so he says, it will be supervised international independence, to only talk about what is in the 2005 negotiation platform, which is the essential autonomy of the Cypriot national minority in Kosovo and Metohija. They are not and can never be a majority, no matter how they declare them, no matter how they help them, no matter how they call them now. Because, don't forget, a complete twist of the situation in that hypocrisis that occurred, first of all in America and the West, and in their scientists and in their diplomatic circles, was the moment when Richard Holbrooke came and bowed down to one of the leaders of the Shiparian separatists and the Americans stopped calling it a name and began to say that it was some allegedly unprotected people who are majority in Kosovo and Metohija, but not majority in Serbia. Be careful how dangerous these terms are, which have never appeared in any international document before without an open threat of force. What will you do more than this when Ahtisaari says to you, "The so-called "will be executed." Demarcation of borders. Josip Broz did so in 1956 and was later confirmed in 1988 when the municipality of Leposavic was involved in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. So another 42km has moved the border towards the municipality of Leposavic, i.e. Kopalnik. When does the border demarcation take place? When one country has an armed conflict with another, or war, and after that war, a peace treaty or an agreement, you have to tell Marty Ahtisaari. There is no change in borders either under the Constitution of our country, or by Resolution 12 44 (which someone has called the resolution clumsyly, if he reads so, but is completely without a meaning of 1244, is not, but 12 44) the Security Council of the United Nations, which was voted upon, at the moment the SRS realised it was a fraud of America, Western forces, NATO pact and Marty Ahtisaari and when it was against it and proved to be the key in that sentence 'The future status of Kosovo and Metohija' will be resolved'. It fully guarantees the territorial integrity of our country, but this clumsyly modest sentence, deliberately placed in the context of Resolution 12 44, returns us after seven years to the fact that we need to talk about whether to resolve future status. It was resolved, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by Resolution 12 44. We have been dealing with Kosovo and Metohija for a very long and serious time, and this has never been a party issue for us. We have always taken care of our people, our children from Kosovo and Metohija, our country's future. We've always had our country concerned. If you remember certain scientific studies written in time by the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, "West Forces and Roles in Breaking the Space of Yugoslavia", one part was used in testimony last year before the murder of Slobodan Milosevic, if I show you tonight that this book written by Tomislav Nikolic, which has the right name, and that is the right message for all of you and the citizens of Serbia, 'All for Kosovo and Metohija', was written in 1998, then you can see that we never had any dilemma and that tonight, as well as all the previous times, we have the view that what is ours we must defend and so must commit to the Negotiating Team, came to this session. I will read to you for the end only one part, and you can make a parallel with the way the pressures are done, now, though, not to the threat of bombs, NATO pact, bombing, because the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is occupied, what Mr Tomislav Nikolic then said when he presented the complete situation in this book. That's what I'm telling you because someone mentioned it, so you didn't want to talk. We, who have been calling for more than 10 years on the Shiptar national minority to register, to pay taxes, if they want to respond to the military and of course respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we who are our own representative, then Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic, sent 28 times to Pristina. It was only once, and it was a brief encounter with Ibrahim Rugova, and not in the place that the state of Serbia has set for it, but in his house or, I think, at the headquarters of his party. What was said at that time should be a reminder to you tonight, to you who will go to Vienna 21st, and especially the most important part in the text of this resolution, which is what the Serbian Radical Party insisted on: "The National Assembly specifically obliges the State Negotiating Team to state the position of the Republic of Serbia on the whole of the proposal by the Secretary General of the United Nations, formulating, in accordance with this resolution", and with nothing else, "their concrete proposals and solutions, as well as to submit a report immediately upon its return to the negotiations with the National Assembly to decide on the further course of negotiations". If you show up and go to Vienna 21, sit at the table with Marty Ahtisaari, you must tell him that everything he promotes as a courier of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General falls into the water and you must talk exclusively in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and inform the citizens of Serbia what will happen if we are forced to try, or are ready already, to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. If you threaten to bomb us, so we go to the conference, I say what happened that year in 1998 when he spoke to the public, after returning from the failed negotiations, Tomislav Nikolic, then threaten with the bombing again, we give the Shiptars the Republic, then threaten with the bombing again, and we accept the referendum of the Shipara on secession, and you threaten with the bombing, and we give Raska, then it goes on forever, then there is no end there, and that is the end of our country, independence and sovereignty. Keep in mind these words from ten years ago when you start 21st, based on this resolution, to negotiate the life and future of our troubled people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29841	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let MP Zvonko Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29842	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is true that when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija today we should think about what Serbian citizens think and what their answer to this difficult question is. I will start with a poll conducted in Serbia that says that when Serbian citizens ask if Kosovo's independence is acceptable for them in more than 80% of the cases, you will get the answer that it is absolutely unacceptable. But when you ask them what they think is going to happen to Kosovo, unfortunately, almost the same percentage of them responds to what is going to happen. Even if we do not talk about representative research, we see that Serbian citizens are indeed in conflict with themselves when the Kosovo issue is on the agenda. Why is that? Because, on the one hand, there is history, myths, legends, dedications and all that we have learned about Kosovo, all that has eventually become part of collectively unconscious and part of ourselves. On the other hand, it stands a cruel and inexorable reality. Of course, history should be a life teacher, but it happens, because of the different interpretations of history, that you have a conflict that seems like history is conflicting with the future. What do you do then? You have to look at reality, you have to look at the present, and you have to draw solutions from it. What is Serbia's present and what is the present of Kosovo and Metohija at this time? There are people living in Kosovo whose life is beyond any attribute of freedom and human rights. Hundreds of thousands of people living in Serbia who have been expelled from Kosovo. Some of them live very hard, some of them still live in collective centres, at the lowest level and scale of life, not because people in Serbia don't want to help them live better, but because people in Serbia can't often help themselves to live better. Because Serbia's reality is also that Serbia is not a rich, economically powerful and politically stable world power that is in a position to offer a finished solution and not agree to compromises. On the contrary, Serbia is still a poor country, but Serbia is a country moving from isolation to integration; Serbia is a country moving from economic collapse to economic stability; Serbia is a country on the path from poverty to sustainable economic development. The G17 plus will support today's resolution of the National Assembly. Why? For two reasons, because the resolution is in agreement with our views on Kosovo and Metohija at the moment. Why? Because G17 plus believes that all the views of Marty Ahtisaari's proposal that violate Serbia's sovereignty and integrity are unacceptable. Also, G17 plus believes it is impossible to reject the negotiations completely and that it is impossible to stop the negotiation process. We believe that negotiations should be continued, and that is what today's resolution that we will adopt and support. The G17 Plus party has never agreed to the "sustaining revolution" fleet and has never agreed to be a revolutionary party that will always speak only of what it will not and will not have concrete solutions to how to make something better and how to move from revolution to evolution, to change and to accept responsibility. We believe, today, that the solution to many issues in Serbia, including the Kosovo and Metohija issue, is economically strong and stable Serbia and that is what we have been working on consistently and persistently. We think the solution is that we all keep working on it together. Also, Serbia needs political stability, Serbia needs a process of European integration to have friends, to have people support it in its efforts to solve all its problems and, of course, Serbia needs to strengthen its institutions. The G17 plus will continue to advocate this in the process of continuing negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. We are going a step further, because how will Serbia that is stabilising itself help people in Kosovo if they are isolated? That is why we have proposed special zones, these are geographical continents in Kosovo, which include all populated cities and municipalities in which Serbs are the majority population, which would have a higher degree of autonomy in the competences they accept, which are health care, economy, police, culture. In addition to the higher degree of autonomy, we propose that these be special zones that will have special protection, as well as special ties with Serbia and which Serbia will be able to economically help to carry out all its competencies, to strengthen infrastructure and to protect people living in Kosovo. Only in this way will we allow people who have stayed in Kosovo to live peacefully, securely and safely, and only in this way will we enable the return of all those who wish to return to Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout history, we have been given an inheritance, and we have received heavy messages, messages that occurred many centuries ago, which have been passed down from knee to knee and that are often spoken from us today. These messages may sometimes sound like a curse to mothers in Serbia, parents in Serbia. I will say to you some of them, "For the cross I will shed honor with blood, and die for my faith." "Food the son to the army, Kosovo cannot rest." Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment in which we all need to assume responsibility as citizens of modern, stable, credible Serbia of the 21st century, European Serbia, to send another message to our ancestors, to send a message to young people in Serbia, children in Serbia, to future generations that will not be a threat, but a promise, which will not be a curse, but a blessing -- not to die for Kosovo, but to live in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29843	Thank you to Mrs. Snezani Stojanović-Plasic. There is a word from MP Zvonko Mihajlovic, and let the MP Milojub Albijanic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for me as a Serb living in Kosovo and Metohija, in the southernmost enclave of Serbia, Strpac, this proposal for a solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija is no surprise. Such a solution could have occurred immediately upon the arrival of the so - called so - called so - called solution. Peace, and I'd say occupation, force. The first special envoy of the Secretary-General for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Bernard Kouchner, was remembered as a great evil at the Serbs; immediately, after his entry into office, he began to drastically violate the document, the UN Security Council's highest legal act, Resolution 1244, which otherwise enabled him to come to the responsible post. He neglected, just like all who came after him, the most important items of the resolution, such as: the protection of the remaining Serbs, the protection of the exiled, the security of the safe environment for Serbs, the protection of the state border of the Republic of Serbia, cultural and historical monuments, churches and monasteries, and everything provided for by the Resolution that would lead towards normalisation of the situation. Instead, the persecution and pogrom of Serbs, everyday killings and abductions, unprecedented robbery and abductions, the burning of Serbian houses, churches and monasteries continue. In one word, there's a general chaos. The chaos is taking place in front of the eyes of the peace forces, which are in their ranks of about 50,000 soldiers and police officers, and there are also about as many Serbs left after the withdrawal of the Serb army and police. Literally, one soldier on one Serb, more than enough. However, the desire to protect Serbs did not exist, on the contrary. UNMIK's bosses were all up to one, and there were six, if I wasn't wrong, patiently, step by step, knowingly violating a trusted mandate, creating assumptions for another Albanian state in the Balkans. Unfortunately, I must say that in many dirty jobs, I have also had the help of Serbs, above all I think of those Serbs who, by their participation in their elections, gave legitimacy to the creation of UNMIK, i.e. the Kosovo institutions, i.e. the Cypriot institutions. These Serbs helped them to push through the story at a small door that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are members of the national minority, which was no match for the truth, because as long as Kosovo and Metohija are in Serbia's composition, so far as they live, they cannot be minorities in their country. You already know that of the 120 seats in the so-called so-called Parliament. Kosovo's 20 seats were reserved for minorities, where Serbs were numbered. Unfortunately, the fraud of the then DOS authorities did not know or wanted to be recognized. UNMIK chiefs said that Albanian political leaders, in which they promoted them, are tough killers and criminals, great friends. Some of them became Ship's sons-in-laws. On the other hand, it was enough for one of the Shipara to point a finger at a Serb and falsely accuse him, followed by a mounted trial and eventually the innocent Serbs would face years of prison sentences. To be honest, none of the UNMIK bosses said they hated Serbs. The current UN Secretary-General for the solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija Marti Ahtisaari publicly says he hates Serbs and Serbs that the only culprits are what happened in the former SFRY space. How could you not, when he is the son of a Finnish fascist, a member of the notorious German division? Instead of its proposal as the basis for the continuation of negotiations that would lead to a compromise solution, it is actually the basis for the creation of a new Albanian state in the Balkans. The proposal for a solution is completely unacceptable, and I would especially not comment on it, but I cannot, in one sentence, not to mention Article 1(4), Annex 1. A proposal for a solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija, which says, "It is confirmed that Kosovo does not have official religion and that it will be neutral in matters of religious beliefs." I consider this a perfidious prank, just like his entire solution proposal. Ahtisaari himself, and the whole world, knows that currently 90% of the population of Kosovo and Metohija are made up of Muslims. Doesn't that mean that someone in the heart of Europe is trying to create another Muslim state, a country in which anarchy would rule, drugs would be bought on trades, prostitution would spread, and arms smuggling would also open polygons for training terrorists, and a lot more. I really don't know which country in Europe has interests in creating such a nakaradna state, except, of course, the United States, which are also the author of the proposal for a solution for Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija publicly raised their voice in large protests a few days ago in Kosovo Mitrovica, yesterday in Strpce, and these days in all enclaves, and said loudly and clearly what they think of this radical anti-Serbian plan. Also, the cosmet Serbs, because of their excessive fear of experiencing the fate of those Serbs living in neighbouring Albania and who are known only to live hard and are getting smaller, are urging all relevant political actors in Serbia to make an additional effort to achieve unity to preserve Serbia's national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29845	The word is Mr. Milosevic Albianic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29846	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin on the agenda topic, I'd like to say that the congregation services and the police are supposed to throw out those who sell inappropriate books, trying in fact, in front of the entrance to the Assembly Hall, and that's the first thing. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my fellow Members of the previous Serbian Parliament, to thank the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the previous call on Mr Predrag Markovic; I think that the work we did in the previous period, bringing 260 laws and the Serbian Constitution, is something that will be written in history as a significant undertaking for Serbia's progress in this period. Of course, I want to say that also in the previous session of the Assembly, the political parties' relations were improved, that this was the same in the campaign, and that this established good standards and mutual behaviour in political relations and in the Assembly and beyond. As far as the resolution ahead of us is concerned, for the G17 plus resolution is acceptable and we will vote yes, precisely because the plan proposed by Martti Ahtisaari is not acceptable and in the resolution it is clearly stated. The resolution is balanced as text. So here it is clearly said in the second position – the National Assembly therefore rejects all the views set out in the UN Special Envoy, which violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the text was carefully written and talks were left to continue, and that is said in a certain position – the National Assembly specifically obliges the State Negotiating Team to state the position of the Republic of Serbia on the whole of the Special Envoy proposal, in line with this resolution, of its concrete proposals and solutions. This is, I think, an important moment, because it is important to remind MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Negotiating Team actually performs on negotiations with the platform, and the platform contains a very significant part of it and I think it is best worked out – the issue of decentralisation. This issue of decentralisation is elaborated in detail and I think that what is fundamentally on our side, because the truth that is written here and which is with arguments on our side cannot be killed during the negotiations itself. That's why the attitudes of Ahtisaari's proposal can be challenged, because we have concrete solutions that we ourselves suggest here. Of course, the pause story and the debate doesn't help much, and therefore the G17 plus believes that there was a need for further assistance from the Negotiating Team. When we discussed the resolution itself, to adopt, we proposed a particular paper and our proposal is to set up a specific zone; this paper came into the hands of the negotiating team and they accepted that it should be included in the negotiating team materials and could serve as one of the basis for the talks in Vienna to come. The special zones, therefore, do not deviate from the platform for negotiations, because in the decentralisation process platform, it is the goal of forming a Serb entity in Kosovo and Metohija. Here it is only worked out in our proposal what a formal and essential Serb entity today looks like, with a description of the ingenuities that should be owned by specific zones, which are the ibaric zone, Gracanica, the Prilužje zone and the Strpce zone, I will not particularly detail it since Mrs Verica Kalanovic explained the territorial schedule in detail, as well as the competences of the zones themselves. So, what's the idea and desire? The idea is that Serbia really enters the space of Kosovo and Metohija with its economic capacity and that the funding from the National Investment Plan and various other activities can be realised in Kosovo and Metohija. We want to develop infrastructure, we want to affect the better lives of people in Kosovo and Metohija. So security, but also a better life, a normal life, are the priorities of our favour for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. As we have seen it is important for someone to stand behind a particular document, behind the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so it is important that all institutions in the country function, because if it is an important moment, it is important that we have a full functioning of all institutions, which means that the government of the Republic of Serbia is formed quickly and that the state works at full capacity, because it is important that we show at this point all the strength we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29847	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Mr. Zoran Krasic, to prepare Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29848	Today, there's a serious topic on the agenda, so if the National Assembly has adopted some platform that obliges these people to go to the interviews, then stick to that platform, not these parking areas that are proposed here. It's unserious paper, you know, it's the ones that got 500,000 people kicked out of work, so during the campaign they say, we're going to hire that 500,000 back. But let's take the turn now. Since I am now able to express this in continuity, I would not like to repeat what I have told Kosovo and Metohija several times in that other building. I have to draw attention to everyone who is following the transmission and to those who are in this room, all of you voted in favour of some resolution concerning Kosovo and Metohija, and 1999 and 2001, so that those who forgot about thinking if they changed the uniform uniform that they came out of the stenogram -- they didn't come out of the stenogram, and in 2001 they voted for those resolutions where there was somehow a unique attitude of what policy should be towards Kosovo and Metohija. What is important today for these people who are supposed to represent the Republic of Serbia in these talks? I deliberately potentiate the term "conversations", not "negotiations"; you're not going to negotiate, you're going to talk. What should be negotiated has already been resolved by the 1999 Resolution. You must start with the first word of this paper, which this gentleman running for the Nobel Prize calls some plan to resolve this issue. So, from the first word. You can't come to a discussion about annexes. Here, I don't authorise you to talk about annexes, I forbid you to talk about annexes. I give you authority, like Zoran Krasic, to talk about Article 1, these are general principles, and if it takes two months, talk about that member. You can't go to talk about Article 2. You're not allowed to talk. Why are you banned? Well, if you were to talk further, you'd step on our platform, you'd break what the National Assembly decided, you'd be in big trouble because you're violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that, I can't tell some MPs, the public saw that they did not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but as civil servants I must call you. And, let me tell you, as soon as you move on to Article 2, you have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's the message some have been talking about, that's the right message to be given to the Negotiating Team. Furthermore, the one who was determined to conduct those talks, this Finnish, he overstepped his powers. He is not authorized to conduct some talks that would lead to a status that would differ from that determined by Resolution 1244. You must discuss the extent of essential self-government and autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija's territory as part of the Republic of Serbia. You can talk about what their pension-involvement fund will be, how close and far it will be with the Republic Fund in Serbia. You are talking about something that is the autonomy of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija in relation to the central government, you must not talk outside. As soon as the conversation begins, pack up and come home, there is no need to be called Tadic or Kostunica. The National Assembly, by adopting this resolution that you have proposed, has given you such a warrant. Why? Well, we're richer for some experience, I guess, we know. Based on some earlier behavior of some actors in this, we can conclude that they will behave in the future. Just to remind you, that the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, from which Resolution 1244 later came out, did not guarantee the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, would never have been voted in the National Assembly, so it could not even go to the United Nations or the Security Council. How come someone doesn't recognize their signature now, doesn't recognize their promise? If someone had known in 1999 that this fraud was going to take place, and Slobodan Milosevic would not have ordered the resolution to be passed. Even Vuk Draskovic wouldn't have been a coward. Remember, he said -- the United Nations is coming, they're going to protect us. Please, we have experience with the Republika Srpska Krajina. The Ustashas attacked the UN. Are they punished? No, there was an American ambassador in the first tank. That's true. That's the facts. It's not a free comment. That's the facts. Just to remind you of Rambui, when all this was over after a year, what this lady who sought Rambui said - well, we offered Serbs impossible conditions that no state would accept. Now some people here are calling for Rambui. You have partners to talk to, in front of the international community, who are frauds, liars, thieves, who prefer money from drug dealers from Kosovo and Metohija. In the Council of Europe, you saw that Lord Russell Johnston, he's funded by Thaci. Why drug money to lose the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Who's authorized to sign that? You're not even authorized to talk. That's the message you need to hear. It's a message that all citizens of Serbia give. You're out of those polls, which is what this is all about, 80 percent is for, and 80 percent thinks they're going to leave. It's not. One hundred percent of Serbian citizens believe that Kosovo and Metohija are in Serbia and one hundred percent of Serbian citizens do not allow Kosovo and Metohija to leave. The polls are changing... And they had 30 and some MPs, and now they barely came to 16, how many – 18, and the next time they will die. Polls change, it changes the mood daily. We cannot deal with Kosovo and Metohija in terms of the daily political mood and polls of citizens, but we must say – these are our state interests. It is not a democratic issue between Kosovo and Metohija. You could have said that in 2000, when you burned down this building, but you can see it's not a democratic question. What kind of way – if you accept this kind of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have human rights. Does human rights depend on whether the Shipari are going to win the state or not? Where are the human rights fighters? Escaped into a mouse hole. Why? They can't answer that. These guys are funding them. These people are destroying our country, and that's the end of the story. Seven years, what did they do? We have warned you every time, and concerning constitutional frameworks, and choices, and lists, for all things, and all things. What did we warn you about? It's the first point of Resolution 1244, then the tenth, and not to replace places. Some of them were complicit in this... And Nebojsa Covic, for whom the radicals were war dogs in 2001, in 2004, he finally voiced and said – aman, people, that's terrorism there. She's too late in her head for some of them. She's too late. We will vote for this resolution to show that unity. This is what you need. However, a little power has made, and those who claim power, that this unity may appear. Foreign Minister Draskovic, Defence Minister – citizen Stankovic, what further can we talk about. What should we talk about? We're going with the unstable government to negotiate. You've celebrated your victory, and you can't make a deal. Not even Solana can put you together. You see for yourself, whoever made out with Solana, the citizens condemned him. In 2001 you persuaded us – Kosovo and Metohija are resolved because they are our political partners. Please, during the election campaign, you took pictures with Shirak, and with Blair, and with Putin, and with NATO and with all others, asking them to be part of the Republic of Serbia. It's your responsibility, because thanks to those recordings and you get so many votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29849	The word has been given to MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, distinguished guests, the essence of the motion for this resolution and the platform of the Negotiating Team is in the protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty, as any normal state would do. The essence is, according to the resolution, in protecting the rights of the Serbian people, the Serbian Orthodox Church, as well as the interests of the non-Albanian community in Kosovo and Metohija. The essence of the government's proposal, the essence of the motion for this resolution, of what the Negotiating Team will do is also in defence of the values entered in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed by the UN Charter, prescribed by the Charter of the Council of Europe. I would single out three things that we will defend as a state, and we have an obligation as a state to protect citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, which are: the right to human dignity, the right to life, the right to freedom and security. Among other things, the modern Europe that we are all talking about today rests on these foundations. On these foundations rests the free and modern world. That is why all of us who are voting for this resolution today, who will support the Negotiating Team today, will know that we are all individuals, and that the state of Serbia has stood exactly in the defense of European and global values, values that we are all seeking and that we are all talking about. What system of values tries and practically legalize Marty Ahtisaari's proposal? It is a system of values that has practically supported the killing of Serbs and non-Albanians for seven years. It is a system of values that has brought up to 240,000 exiled, over 5,000 killed and missing. It is a system of values that today in Kosovo and Metohija says it is perfectly normal for you to enter the Serbian church, into the Serbian monastery and set them on fire. Such a system of values legalises this proposal and it is a system that legalises those people who are accused of war crimes, who are now at the top of Kosovo and Metohija and who in Kosovo and Metohija are considered a factor of stability, should according to the proposal, by annexes, all that is offered to Serbs on this paper to guarantee. To plasticize, it is as if in 1945 Jasenovac was released, in which 670,000 Serbs, Roma and Jews were killed, and then you tell the survivors – gentlemen, now Max Luburic and the commanders of the Ustasha camp will take you home to your villages and to your cities. Are we crazy? Whether those who have been doing exactly the opposite of what an agreement should be, and the agreement should bring a solution that is acceptable to both Albanians and Serbs, and how it has been accepted in the Contact Group, or what was until 1999 and what is today in Kosovo and Metohija and what we as a state, of course, and as a people cannot accept. So all of us here, I am convinced, will fight against such a system of values, and we as a state, the Negotiating Team, will offer Albanians exactly what they want – to manage their own lives. So, we do not want as a state to manage the lives of Albanians, and that is why both in the proposal and in what the Negotiating Team is doing explicitly states in which ways they can manage their lives. We also want Serbs to manage their lives in Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbs have the same self-government and the same rights, but that Serbia's state protects and guarantees them, and that same rights within the framework of the state of Serbia will offer Albanians. So I tell all those who are skeptical, in the life of an individual for 50 years is very much, but in the life of one state, which did not come there in 1918, but in the first century, gentlemen, the first Slovenian tribes hit the southern edges of the Balkans and the first Serbian state was created in Kosovo and Metohija, not in 1918... So we offer in one such state that there should be room for all, all those who accept its citizenship and work according to its laws, and in such a state of Serbia, we are convinced, if what this assembly is offering, this negotiating team will be places for both Serbs and Albanians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29851	Thank you, Borka Ilic. The word is Mr. Otto Kishmarton, and to prepare Dusan Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear friends, we've heard a lot about the resolution. I'd like to give you a message from the North of Vojvodina, because I'm from Northobanat County. There are about 47% of Hungarians in this county, next to the majority people. I speak on behalf of the vast majority of citizens, Hungarians and Serbs from the Northobanat County, who think like me and the state have the same rights and obligations as everyone else, and we all have the same right to defend our country's interest. In northern Serbia, we all care equally about the preservation of our country's territorial integrity. I would say of Ahtisaari's plan that he is biased towards a party that advocates Kosovo's independence. Ahtisaari's assessment cannot be accepted that Albanians are those who have a positive view of his plan, and Serbia is the one who has a negative attitude. No normal state can have a positive view, and Serbia is a normal state, according to a plan that requires the secession of the territory. The Serbian Radical Party does not want to participate in the negotiations, I underline, where a way to violently secede part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is sought. We will not negotiate how part of Serbia's territory should be secededed, but we will discuss, and must discuss Kosovo's core autonomy, the situation of people in this part of Serbia must be discussed, but Kosovo's secession is not discussed. It's a message from the north of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29853	I give my word to Parliamentarian Dusan Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29854	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time to give my exposure to the views that were heard in the past days and weeks in the foreign, but also in the local, and some of these views have been repeated today after this assembly address. I don't want to be stubborn about the whole world. I don't want to get in a fight with everyone, but I think there's some things I need to do again. It should be reiterated that Serbia has since 2000 tried everything to establish partnership with key international factors, tried everything to play a clear and constructive role in the negotiation process, and eventually received a proposal based on a system of values that tells us how much more important it is to think about people living in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is not important to think about territory. Of course, it is important that we think about people living in Kosovo and Metohija, above all about Serbs and non-Albanians, because they are at this point the most endangered. In that sense, in the last six years, we've tried a lot. Let me remind you, at the end of 2000, we opened talks on decentralisation. The result is to this day zero. In 2001, the Hackerup-Covic agreement, which was to regulate relations in education, health systems, and ensure institutional protection of non-Albanians through the Kosovo parliament and the Kosovo government, was signed. The score is zero. In 2001, Serbs went to elections for Kosovo's provisional authorities and Metohija to try to protect their rights and their interests through the Kosovo parliament. The answer to that was March 17th. We started the talks on a sustainable return protocol in 2002. It's been five years since. To date, between three and seven percent of refugees and internally displaced persons have returned. From everything we've tried to protect people in Kosovo and Metohija, nothing is respected. Why should I now believe in the Ahtisaari plan, that is, its part of the plan that tells us about the status of Serbs and non-Albanians, which tells us that this status will improve? If not a single letter from many of the documents that we have started the talks we have signed is not respected to this day, neither will Ahtisaari's annexes be respected. It seems that it is only important this time to accept the general frameworks of Ahtisaari's plan, which speak of Kosovo getting some state-wide outlines, that Albanians begin to round up their country, and all other provisions will be respected just as much as Resolution 1244 has been respected so far. It's unacceptable for me. I find it unacceptable that some values are used in one situation and some other values in another situation. Just to remind you, the Badinter Commission document was supposed to apply to all the republics of the former SFRY. Today it turns out that he was for all five others, only Serbia does not apply. We must fight against it in principle today, at this session, with clear and unequivocal rejection of Ahtisaari's plan, and already as much as tomorrow's strong, intense diplomatic and political activity, as in the previous three years, in order to explain our views to everyone and to tell everyone that our views are not based on any romanticism, but on reality, on international law and on European standards. At the same time, we must fight and establish a new system of values in our society and our country, which will not talk about Serbia winning Kosovo in 1912 in the Liberation Wars, because if that is true, how did Gracanica, Zocište, Dusan's Holy Archangels? I guess they're a little older than 1912. We must fight to establish such a system of values in our country and our society, which will finally begin with the deYugoslavisation process of Serbia. I think the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the beginning. There's something here today about our closer and further history. I would like to remind that our society, our people, that our country has invested everything in Yugoslavia, spent an entire century on that idea, entered its name, its last name, its statehood, every third man's head, and in response we got a Sarajevo demonstration in 1939, "Croatian Spring" in 1971, "Albanian Intifada" in 1981. We must fight to establish a system of values in our country and our society, which, as in every country and every society, will respect all three kinds of interests and all three types of objectives: strategic, national and national. Our strategic interests are peaceful co-existence with Albanians, improving Serbian-Albanian relations. We need a certain future, not new problems, new wars and new conflicts, but in order to improve Serbian-Albanian relations, in order to have a peaceful co-existence, we need to have dialogue, regular dialogue, along with international intermediaries, better without them, better to get ourselves into these talks voluntarily. Not enough is one meeting that Ahtisaari organised on July 14th last year to discuss the problem. Our national interests are to preserve Kosovo, because Kosovo is part of our spiritual, cultural, religious, state-of-the-art verticals. There are ideologies that say it's national and it doesn't matter. I'm willing to compromise with all these people, open up a debate, discuss the consequences of ignoring it in some other countries and other societies. Finally, our state interest is that we have stable security, political opportunities in the Balkans, that we do not have an undemilitarised entity with 200,000 pieces of individual weapons, who knows in whose hands, that we do not have an entity currently representing Europe's largest warehouse and the largest drug distribution centre. Our state interest and our state objectives are, too, to clearly and unequivocally respect international order and international law. Because of all this, and in line with the new circumstances that have arisen since last session of the Serbian Parliament, about Kosovo and Metohija, I think we need to continue the talks, but the talks on the essence of Ahtisaari's proposal, not some annexes on whether the protection zones around Serbian monasterys will be 50m or 70m. We must continue negotiations and we must insist that there should be no extradition of these negotiations. It is only a guarantee that we will come to a solution by compromise, not by imposing, because every imposition brings injustice, and injustice in the future will cause many problems. Speaking of imposing a solution and of injustices, I would eventually like to remind myself of a Balkan problem that has not been solved for 15 years, precisely because no one wants to impose a solution so as not to hurt either side, which no one wants to wrongly create any new disagreements on the Balkan Peninsula. It's about the name of the Republic of Macedonia. Some countries have bilaterally recognised Macedonia as the Republic of Macedonia, most international institutions continue to recognise it as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The dialogue between Skopje and Athens lasts for 15 years, no solution has been reached. That is why I am telling all the advocates of the idea that Serbia should get rid of a ballast called Kosovo, that it should behave constructively, accept some newly created reality, that instead of a Kosovo problem trying to intercede in this problem between Skopje and Athens, it is easier for them to resolve the issue of the name of a state than the matter of 15% of the territory of another sovereign state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29855	Thank you. Bozidar Delic has a word, and let Jovan Damjanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29856	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, by 1999, I, as a number of other MPs, lived in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I also view this session of our assembly in a special way, because not only me, but many Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Roma, Gorans and Muslims expect this assembly and our negotiating team to define their future. We studied Marty Ahtisaari's plan with special attention. It is a plan that sets only blackmail and dictatorships before Serbia. You can see that from almost every provision, and I'll only mention some that my predecessors didn't mention. Serbia is dictated to review its archives and return everything that belongs to Kosovo and Metohija, to return the cadastrian documents of Kosovo and Metohija and, which should affect each and every one of us, to examine its museums and to bring back cultural treasures, our relics and our sanctities that are removed from Kosovo and the Metohija to be preserved, to return to Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia cannot allow it and succumb to such blackmails. This plan certainly means breaking the state-law continent of the Republic of Serbia and is therefore totally unacceptable. It is not only that Serbia is asked to give up 16% of its territory or 10.7,000 square miles. Gentlemen, states that are responsible do not give beyond their sovereignty even those cliffs in the sea that have only a few square meters and that have no meaning, because only seagulls land on them. My predecessor spoke of the importance of calling a former Yugoslav republic and how it could not be solved in seven years. Resolution 1244 confirmed Serbia's sovereignty. But no government has made sufficient effort in these seven years to fully implement the resolution or, rather speaking, all of what the international community has asked of us has been implemented, and almost none of what confirmed Serbia's sovereignty. We would be discussing here in a completely different way tonight, if you gentlemen had managed to bring back at least as many state authorities and representatives of this country as was foreseen in Resolution 1244. Both those thousands of soldiers and police officers at Serbia's borders towards Albania and Macedonia would be enough to discuss Serbia's sovereignty here in another way today. What we have done in those seven years is best seen by how many Serbs have returned to Kosovo and Metohija. Here, for seven years, we have called our citizens from Kosovo and Metohija temporarily displaced persons, so second-class citizens, because by many provisions and many things, and by the care they are being given, they are citizens of the second order in their country. Today, the eyes of the bravest part of our people, the part that has remained in Kosovo and Metohija, are the guarantees that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, against this assembly. They are asking to hear our decision, whether they will continue to live in Serbia or are asked to live in a new Albanian state. From our relationship, our position and how persistent and persistent our negotiating team is in the fight for Serbia's interests depends on whether new columns from Kosovo and Metohija will take the path of Serbia. Our position, as the Assembly, as well as any political party, will know that it values not only the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija but all the other citizens of Serbia. It's a bit of an earful to me when I hear from this pay phone that we should fight for the protection of the human rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for the property of our Orthodox church or for the interests of those who have been displaced throughout Serbia. I think it is our primary and only interest and task to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, because that would protect all our other interests, and everything else that was here today and tonight's talk, and as far as centralisation is concerned, it's all in another plan when this is the basic fate issue to be resolved. In today's time, or tonight, it is of the utmost interest to show unity in the adoption of this resolution, as well as to confirm the mandate of our National Negotiation Team. The position of the SRS on this issue is clear to you, as well as to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29857	The word is Jovan Damjanović, and let the Verse of Radeta prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that Kosovo is a Serbian historical; we all know that a constituent people in Kosovo is a Serb people. We will respect Europe, but Europe should respect other peoples and other countries. If it requires Europe to be democratic, then it must respect other countries as well. Serbia is at risk today. When Serbia is threatened, we Roma, along with our Serbian brothers, are on the defensive side of the country. Our country, our Serbia, is today protected by unity, knowledge, but also by the seriousness and responsibility of every man whose Serbia is the only country. What's so-called The international community, through its spokesman Ahtisaari today, has been unrecorded in the history of contemporary international relations for citizens of Serbia. To take away a country and its citizens an indigenous part of the territory, which in this case has a special symbolism and value for us, the thing is against which every honest, honorable citizen of Serbia, whatever nationality he belongs, has an obligation to raise his voice and to oppose a imposed solution that means the humiliation and tearing of Serbia. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, as well as a Roma who is proud, I can say that we have our own state - Serbia. With this payphone, I am not only raising my voice, but I am sure, and the voice of all Roma living in Serbia against the proposal for a solution to Ahtisaari, which, however you pack it, whatever words you use or not, certainly leads to the dispersion of Serbia and the creation of another Albanian state in Europe. All of us, Roma, Serbs and other citizens, live in the same country, we have no other countries. That's why our rights are, but our obligations to her are the same. Today it is time to implement the obligations to preserve the state unity and integrity of our Serbia. For the Roma, as well as for all other citizens, it is in the interest that Serbia is led by people who know what honor, honesty and dignity mean, people who are real hosts. It's Serbian radicals today. And if so, it confirms our numbers in the congregation benches. So from this pay phone, at this crucial moment, I urge the unity of all of us to take a stand according to Ahtisaari's proposal for a solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status. We represent all citizens of Serbia here and protect their interests. That's what we must never forget. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29859	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29860	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is indeed a difficult and responsible task today in front of all of us, but unfortunately, there is no more unity that existed when previous resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija were passed. Already today, it is clear that some MPs from this assembly will not be opposition to the Serbian government, whoever formed it, but that there will be opposition to Serbia and whenever it comes to preserving Serbia's vital national interests, they will, of course, be against it. It's really terrible to hear in this house that Serbs came to Kosovo only in 1912, with war, that in 1999 they were driven away in the same way. It is equally terrible to hear that today’s situation is the result of a devastating policy led in the 1990s. Why is there no peace in Kosovo and Metohija today? Why aren't basic human rights being exercised there today? Why do Kosovo and Metohija continue to be ruled by lawlessness, violence and terror? Whose policy is the fruit, is it the fruit of this democracy that prevailed in 2000 to this day? However, what brings us joy is the fact that today, at least based on these formal views, many in this room want to be radicals; at least many have formally advocated everything the SRS has been up to for the past 17 years. That, of course, doesn't bother us. We're glad, and it's good that you're finally in our shoes. I admit that I'm afraid that not everyone is entirely honest with their efforts and that, as so far, they're going to talk one way or the other, they're going to think the other, and the third one is going to work. Today, I will not talk about international documents guaranteeing the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. I will not even talk about history, because Kosovo is not only part of the past, but also of the present, and I am sure of Serbia's future. Today, no one argues that there are on our side and international conventions, truth, justice and justice, but I think it is necessary for everyone to clearly determine what their reaction will be in the event of Kosovo and Metohija's independence being imposed. What is it that each of us is willing to do in that case? It is a very important question, and it has never been said about it so far, who will make up the Serbian negotiating team and will Vuk Draskovic continue to lead it? Can someone who is undeniably politically dead lead a team that will defend Serbia's vital interests? Who will be responsible for everything he can do beyond Serbia's interest? Isn't it extremely hypocritical to send someone, or Vuk Draskovic, and take responsibility off yourself? Will Vuk Draskovic be the Trojan horse of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, and is that all that remains of Serbian diplomacy? What about that famous coconut, what about all our Western friends? We watched during the pre-election campaign in the videos your encounters with foreign statesmen, with your friends and political mentors. You assured us how well you co-operate with the world and how the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue. Who are those who kidnap Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia today? Is that Russia, is that China, India, the Latin American country, the Arab world? Of course not, they're the ones you've been working so well with, the ones you've been laughing sweetly with. You say yourself that on our side there are rights, justice, the UN Charter, international documents, agreements. It has been in power in Serbia for seven years, so-called The democratic bloc and we continue to wonder why Kosovo and Metohija are taking away from us today. If you are truly sincere in wanting to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, today we should agree on what our reaction will be, that the international community also knows that if by force tries to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, there will simply be no discounts in Serbia. To say clearly and loudly today whether we want a NATO pact if they take away Kosovo and Metohija, whether we want to join the European Union, does it make sense to continue to be a member of the UN? What is it that the UN can offer and guarantee Serbia if today, as a sovereign state, Kosovo and Metohija are taking away from us? Can you go in the company of those who rape your wife, who take away your children, or can Serbia in the company of those who rape and tear her apart? I'm surprised that some read the parts of Ahtisaari's agreement, list the areas of minority rights, as if in the proposal, I guess that's an impression that needs to be achieved, there's a lot of good, only it's wrong that Kosovo and Metohija will be independent. How can you talk about taxes, about original revenues, if the Assembly in principle rejects Ahtisaari's proposal? You say the proposal has identified a lot of things, but you have a lot of objections. What does that mean to negotiate? Can it be negotiated on these grounds and from these initial positions? If you ask the SRS, we don't think it can. They can and must be the only Charter of the United Nations, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244. It is pointless to talk about the position of municipalities if Kosovo is independent. Why do some of you talk about making difficult decisions in the future? Isn't this the session where it will be difficult, but the only possible and only right decision, which is that we are truly essential and ultimately defending Kosovo and Metohija? What does that mean when it is said that we must look at the interests of all Serbian citizens, not just 100,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? I hope that this way you do not suggest the possibility of raising your hand in the future for another decision, contrary to what we are making today, because those who today give up Kosovo and Metohija will certainly not defend any other part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow. In the end, I will welcome you with a traditional radical greeting, which certainly still has great importance today, which is – Serbia is eternal while her children are faithful.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29861	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the first time we have voted, that is, to discuss a resolution concerning Kosovo and Metohija. Every time so far, the Serbian Radical Party has shown in part that we are a state-of-the-art party and that when it comes to state and national interests, everything else is subordinated to these interests. Today, it is not disputed that this resolution we are discussing will be voted by the vast majority of MPs in this House, but I am not very happy that this will be the first time that we will not make such a resolution by unanimous decision, and that is a sin on the soul of Vojislav Kostunica. We have heard today from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of Technical or Real Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in what we have heard here, it is not disputed that they too stand behind the motion of this resolution to be adopted by the National Assembly, but it was not the impression that they were clear enough in the explanation of what we will do as a state if what is voted tonight is not accepted by those who intercede, or by Martti Ahtisaari and those whose envoy he is. It is not good that Boris Tadic has more work to do today than to be present all the time as we discuss this resolution, because he should hear the opinion of all the MPs and all the MPs, besides what is contained in this resolution, which, undeniably, will be brought. What is the most important part of this resolution? This is where we will say that "The National Assembly specifically obliges the State Negotiation Team to continue the negotiations with the Republic of Serbia on the whole of the proposal by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, formulating, in accordance with this resolution, its concrete proposals and solutions, as well as to submit a report to the National Assembly immediately upon its return to the negotiations, which decides on a further course of negotiations." I'm reading this for the public, because citizens today were able to get acquainted with Marty Ahtisaari's views in a daily newspaper, and they didn't get a chance to get to know the text of this resolution. And it's not good that we MPs from the daily newspaper were familiar with Marty Ahtisaari's proposal. It was an obligation by Boris Tadic to provide the text in good time to the MPs so that any sentence contained in the text might be more concrete. Of course, we Serbian radicals have no dilemma, we strongly condemn and reject any idea that we can discuss Marty Ahtisaari's proposal in any way, we insist that he be apologetic, and that is the essence and content of this resolution, but I would like to remind the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, the Negotiating Team, that we have not heard any resolutions about it today, and you have been asked by the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and none of the MPs who participated in the debate have said in what way the state authorities think that they are responding and what we would do if it were to happen, do not give God an unfavorable solution for Kosovo and Metohija. We must, unfortunately, also think about it, because yesterday, a friend of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Michael Polt made it clear that much more important is the security and standard of the citizens of Kosovo than the country they will live in. We, up to the last pre-election campaign, have heard very often from representatives of the party of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of similar statements and today the President of the Republic has told us that we hope to take a successful path towards European integration, and the other day I heard one of the party officials of the President of the Republic, who also said that it is much more important for us to be aware that in the next ten years we will become members of the European Union and that then it will not matter who lives in which country, where they are bordered, etc. It's a story that, gentlemen, especially you from the Negotiating Team, you must absolutely forget. The borders of the Republic of Serbia are known, are accepted by the United Nations by Resolution 1244 and you are the ones who must insist on it. If you have any misunderstandings on the subject at these negotiations in Vienna, then, in accordance with the resolution that we are talking about today and which we are about to adopt tonight, you urgently need to inform the National Assembly, in order to give you new tasks or maybe a second negotiating team, if you are unable to defend this resolution. We need to know and the citizens of Serbia need to know, and, I stress, especially the Negotiating Team, that occupation of part of the territory is merely a factual state, not a legal state, and that occupation can never be the basis for acquisition of territory. That is what we must bear in mind all of us MPs, and of course all the other state officials who participate in this work. When we say that we will fight for territorial integrity, for Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, then we do not push our fingers around the international community, as you have spoken to each other until this election campaign, but only to talk about something that is already known in the modern world and recognised, you have as many examples as you want. We don't make anything up. Just because we're a small country doesn't mean we have to be a state without our dignity, without an attribute of statehood. We have a holy one, and it doesn't matter how small or large we are. That's why we can apply the already known so-called. Halstein's doctrine, and I'll remind you that this doctrine has been promoted and that according to it, the Federal Republic of Germany has interrupted relations with every country that has recognised the Democratic Republic of Germany. We must not and should not be afraid to speak out loud and clear to any state that would eventually recognise an independent Kosovo that just by applying the Halstein doctrine, we will break diplomatic relations with every country that does so. Based on this doctrine, Morocco also interrupted diplomatic relations with the SFRY at a time when our former Yugoslavia recognised Front Polisario in Morocco, and the People's Republic of China ended diplomatic relations with Macedonia when Macedonia recognised Taiwan's independence. So all we have to do is apply what's already being applied in the world, and so is retortion, which we shouldn't be afraid of, because the retortion under international law is an act that comes in response to the same or similar act of another state and aims to satisfy or satisfactory. These cases of rhetoric are known and recognized in the world. When Macedonia recognised Taiwan's independence, China threatened to veto the UN troops' presence in Macedonia, and you know that this would mean the country's disintegration to Macedonia, given the fact that there was an armed rebellion there. After such a threat, Macedonia withdrew Taiwan's recognition. When the first World War was taken from Germany by the management of the Russian and Saran district, Germany also reacted by acknowledging the Soviet Union, which was a political blow back then to Great Britain, France and America. Serbia would also have to, and will have to, declare to all the countries of the world, and this should be a message both to this Parliament and to our MPs, so that in the case of unilateral recognitions of Kosovo and Metohija, we will respond by recognising the independence of secessionist territories in these countries, so that we can see why the difference between, I don't know, when it comes to Great Britain, Ireland, and their attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija, or Corsica when it comes to France, Tyrola in Italy, etc. We have no reason to be afraid, nor to be ashamed to say openly what we as a state can and we want to do to protect Kosovo and Metohija. So, all absolutely legal ways, known in the world, and why not apply them? If the UN is behind this proposal, Marty Ahtisaari, why don't we say we're going to join the UN, if the UN is willing to take 15% of our country's territory away from us. In the event of a declaration... Of course, some MPs smile, they think it's funny. And the prime minister smiles, which is of course terrible, and this is a message to you, too, Mr. Kostunica, the technical prime minister, yes, and also to Mr. Tadic, who is not here today, that you have to take care of your contacts with your friends and that you must make it clear and loud to them as well as to what you told Serbian citizens in the campaign, and based on the deception of Serbian citizens to win that election result. You knew on November 10th what Martti Ahtisaari was preparing for Serbia, you hid it from the citizens of Serbia, you still speak very politely in gloves with these friends of yours, and you will not tell them what your obligation is, as high-ranking state officials, what this Parliament has to do with it, because if the European Union is responsible for the possible withdrawal of Kosovo and Metohija from the composition of the Republic of Serbia, then it is clearly and loudly said – such a European Union does not need it. Yes, ma'am, you shouldn't, sir, you shouldn't either. Also, if the United Nations is responsible and responsible for the possible confiscation of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, then we will clearly and loudly tell them that we do not need membership in such an organisation. This is the final time that we need to be really clear, to be resolute, not to be reminded of what we have already reminded you of, the memoirs of Chancellor Helmut Kol who said – when Germany recognised independence, or Slovenia and Croatia, was deeply concerned about the reaction from Belgrade, but it was either a soft or no reaction from Belgrade that encouraged us to move to recognise Slovenia and Croatia's independence. The other EU members followed us because Belgrade did not react. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, Belgrade must react, we will bring this resolution; and the gentlemen of the Negotiating Team, you are obliged to fight very hard and strictly for what we have committed you to, if you are able, and if you are not, we will change the negotiating team.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29863	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the Republic is gone, he has better things to do, the mayor of Belgrade too, not the real bridge he has promised, but the rude story. We are asked the question tonight, and the citizens of Serbia -- and what have we done today for our country, what have we done for Kosovo and Metohija, and what is the result of today's debate or resolution that we are about to adopt? What is it that the citizens of Serbia have been waiting for today, what will they get tonight, if we vote that resolution and what are the consequences of our disunity in the National Assembly? I think we have also shown insufficient responsibilities, insufficient engagement and insufficient ability, and I would say that we have shown insufficient unity, although I do not belong to those who think it is a party, or a one-party or unison opinion, but when it comes to the state, when it comes to its territory, its borders, there should not be any different opinions. Serbia is, unfortunately, a unique country in the world. Today, we have representatives of political parties who openly advocate the secession of Serbia's territory. And to make the absurdity bigger, these political parties are today pushing for some kind of lustration. It's when a political opponent didn't commit any crime, they can't prosecute him for anything, and they don't like him very much, so they say he broke something, but they don't know exactly what to do, so they get him out of political life, and they break the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There must be no organisation or association, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates different borders of the Republic of Serbia, to reduce its territory. We listen to it today in parliament and it's modern, it's ultrafenses, European, I don't know what it is. No, it's, ladies and gentlemen, idiotic and anti-state, it's the most immoral thing that can happen in one country. What are you all afraid to say, what is it, no one can come out and tell you other MPs that you can't say that, that you can't do that. Who knows what will happen, then let them be representatives of occupation, let us listen, who knows whether they will win or not. Where to win, what do we need a state, what do we need a parliament for, what do we need anything, ladies and gentlemen, after that? No more Serbia after that. William Shakespeare said in time – when we are born then we cry for a fool to step on the stage. I have a much better opinion of people, but it seems to me that William Shakespeare was smarter, more serious, than any of us, so he knew about what could happen to us. There is no example in modern, modern legal and political practice that a political party has appeared in a country or anyone will say – well, I am about to separate some of our territory from our country. Do you know of any similar example? I've never heard of a similar example, and I've been through all the books and textbooks and I haven't heard or seen it yet. What are we talking about here? To us today... Since I am not afraid to talk about names and not speak in general, we have heard here from Cedomir Jovanovic and Riza Hallimi that Serbs began to settle Kosovo and Metohija in 1912. And then what do you do? You take a rope to hang yourself, because you can't hear such nonsense anywhere but in the Serbian parliament, neither will the Albanians in their parliament tell you. I didn't understand Mr. Hallimius when he was talking about cannons and tanks. Mr. Haljimi, it's a long history, it started with bottles in the anus of Djordja Martinovic, and it continued with all possible terrorist attacks, so the state of Serbia only tried to establish order on Kosovo's territory and Metohija. We, ladies and gentlemen, love to have Albanians in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Did you see how well we listened to Mr. Halimi today? That way, we could always hear 40 and 50 Albanian MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we think that this country is enough for both Serbs and Albanians, and for Hungarians, and for Roma and all others. But there's no room in this country for the President of the Republic to meet you with Agim Ceku and say, well, that was in the fog, but I told him you're a soldier. What kind of soldier? That's the villain and the criminal who killed the Serb nemesis, for which Interpol's arrest warrant was called, for which the state of Serbia has issued an APB, and you show - it doesn't matter, it's all about politics. What's it gonna be? Now, when that kind of relationship is yours and it's all politics, then this is Serbia's welcome in the end. We have in our media today, dear friends, something that is completely amazing. Part of our media acts as if it's normal to have an attitude that part of Serbia's territory should be entitled to secession, and we're all crazy, we're all past, and they're the future. We who think Kosovo is part of Serbia's territory, none of us are normal. Have you seen the modern attitudes of Bosko Jaksic? A genius showed up, it's not an accident that he showed up; he's not important, he's in a 10,000-metre rabbit race that's going to run up to 6,000 meters, and then he's going to say – come on, you poor bastard, get out of there. It appears to you in the most respected Serbian list... That's what I'm asking from the government, how dare you, who control politics or think you control it, to do it to Serbia, to bring in a man who's going to say -- so what are we going to do with Kosovo, is best without it. Oh, come on! So who has it in BiH today from Muslims to say, from their leadership – so what about us with Republika Srpska when no one in Republika Srpska will live with us from the MH Federation. And he won't? How come no one asks – what about Republika Srpska? How it is only we Serbs have no right. You're telling us here about sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija; so it's not Serbia. He's gone. And how does the MH Federation, apart from the force of the occupation forces, have it on the territory of Republika Srpska? How do you not advocate Republika Srpska becoming independent, how do you not advocate Republika Srpska being united with Serbia? No, you stand for everything that is against Serbia and the Serbian people and always in that way. You say, "In 1999 Milosevic did this, and long before Milosevic, it was all his fault." Yes, it's the communist Broz regime. Before that, there was a bad situation in Kosovo and Metohija, for several centuries there has been a problem with the relations between Serbs and Albanians in the area. The question is, how is it possible for us to say in advance that something that is ours is not ours, and what others are going to say is that they have problems with it we're going to tell them the same thing – it's not, it's yours, it's nothing to do with us. And always on the side of those Serbs who want to take something or take it away. We have today's state television, Mr. Prime Minister, which, in the main news, announces to you in the breaking Dnevnik the most important news, I have seen that some of your MPs have seen it, how it is possible that this happens on state television, the most significant news, with a clear message to the citizens of Serbia -- have you seen, people, and Albanians are also rebelling against Ahtisaari's plan, meaning it's not so bad that Ahtisaari's plan. That's a good plan, as soon as they rebel and they have two dead, that's a good plan. That's what the state television of Serbia tells us. Well, it's about the usual set-up of Western intelligence services -- you do demonstrations, we create riots, you shoot your protesters a little bit to turn out, like, and you rebel against Ahtisaari's plan, so that we in Serbia can push through the whole plan. And to the cheapest tricks, to the stupidest tricks of our country's stakes, and we say, "Well, we've been well, now let's discuss." We haven't seen the Ahtisaari plan anywhere, thanks to "The Voice of the Public" we got Marty Ahtisaari's plan. I don't know what we'd be discussing today. We got something in the material today. What are we talking about here? On the administrative review of municipal activities, on Kosovo legislation in local self-government, on its own extended municipal powers, do any of you think that's what you're talking about in Vienna? Don't talk about it, we don't care. We're interested, because a lot of people here are talking the main trick-or-treating way, and now I'm going to tell you what's the main trick-or-treating way... It's learned, I know where it's learned, how it's learned, I know it's the way it's supposed to be said, but it's a lie, it's a lie. And that's -- we're interested in citizens, we're only interested in people, so leave the territory, what do we care about territory, so we're interested in people, that these people live better. Do you know what the principle is? That's the principle -- let my butt be something better these 10-20 years that I can still push, and I don't care, after we sink. Well, I don't care about me, I have kids, I want to live in Serbia and live in Kosovo and Metohija, I want to have grandchildren who are going to live in the same country and I don't care how my butt is going to be. Now, in that we differ, in that I do not want to talk to any of the representatives, not me, not the SRS citizens, that you will not discuss whether a Serb in Gracanica will have the right to go to Pristina on Tuesdays to the health center or only on Fridays and Saturdays, and what is more appropriate to him now if he is to live in an independent Kosovo. He will not live in an independent Kosovo. He has a red and blue and white flag, the flag of his Serbia, and he doesn't care if you're going to hang a blue-yellow with stars, or any flag. And there's something else about it. I've heard as some, for God's sake, speak in the language of the past, some would war, some would be in isolation. No one would, no one normal would do that. Just one more thing: do you really think it's possible for someone to take your territory, so it's like killing your child, so killing your child isn't scary. Never mind, now you move from 40 to 45 squares and you'll live a little better. As no parent has anything more to do with his child than any nation, so neither country has anything to do with its territory, without the territory of the state. If we give up our territory so easily, if we give up everything so easily, then what do we need the state for? Come on, people, tear it up, if it's just about who's gonna rule, then whose chair it's gonna be, who's gonna steal more. Let's destroy the state, then we don't need parliament. Tell me, if there's an occupation galleyter here, it doesn't matter. Is that the future? I don't think it's the future, I don't want it to be the future, and I don't want to participate in that future, and I don't want those who are the worst past, who are involved in everything and everything in this country, saying that Serbia's future is in accepting the reality that Kosovo is independent. Then accept that the Republika Srpska is a criminal form. So accept that the Serbian Krajina is a criminal creation. All the Serbs kept their hearths, they kept them all by crime, for God's sake. All the others who killed Serbs, those are some nice people, that's all right. Maybe it takes a little help, 'cause that's what we're fighting for, for human rights. It will not be for us in the SRS or in the Black Women, or Natasa Kandic, or any other of them that determines what human rights are and what they are not, because they fight for everything except for real human rights and for the safety of people. Ivo Andric said a long time ago – he who fears is already lost. We are afraid to tell ourselves what we think about what is happening to us in Serbia. We fear in every place and every step of the way to tell who these people are and why they're trying to take our land from us. Can we stop someone from doing this by force? We can't. Will you force it, take it by force. What's ours? To never accept this and always treat Kosovo and Metohija, everyone in Serbia must treat Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in all official acts. In fact, formally, in every way possible. Do we have the strength to say it today? I think we do, I think there's enough of us to say it today. And when you set that up in such a clear way, then someone will start thinking differently. Then someone will start thinking differently, and they'll set themselves up differently, and then they'll think that way -- how about we look at it, see what it is that could come up with those Serbs, so they're not the most infectious people in the world. I will remind you of the 2004 presidential campaign, the second round of elections between Tomislav Nikolic and Boris Tadic. Then Boris Tadic said -- if Tomislav Nikolic wins, Kosovo and Metohija will be in a very difficult situation. I think Kosovo and Metohija would be closer to independence than ever. Tomislav Nikolic said in the campaign – it is only one in a series of lies from the representatives of the Dossovo regime. Look now, three years later. We had an election with the same story – if radicals form a government, there will be independence. If you form a government, I guess it won't, because on August 19, 2000, you're in a rally here in front of the Federal Assembly (that was before you burned it) you said – with our friends, we'll have this democratic issue in a democratic way to solve it. How did you and your democratic friends democratically resolve to take it away from us in such a democratic way completely and that there is no more Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija? Is that a democratic solution? Don't lie to the people anymore. We're hearing stories about a system of values, one of yours I heard, about defending European values. I don't know what those values are to you. I know what every citizen of this country wants. Every citizen of this country wants to live in modern Serbia. Every citizen wants to live incomparably better and every citizen wants to be able to provide their children with normal schooling, or grandparents and grandparents so they can buy their grandchildren a school bag. That's what I know they want. I don't know what these white world values are to you. We'd like to fill this out for them and make it possible for people to live on their own. That's what our priority is. And that, you'll lose your territory and everything, but you'll live, so we'll go to Kosovo; I'm just waiting for that story to be prepared. Wait, the citizens of Serbia, you'll see her too, and there'll be the next one. Okay, they took Kosovo and Metohija from us, but what now. It's a tough decision, we have to go to Europe, they're going to Europe, so we're going to go in with ID cards, so that's how we're going to help our people. And then some office will take two computers to some high school in Kosovo and Metohija and say, "Have you seen how we care about our people?" It's not for Serbia. It's a disaster for Serbia. So Serbia slowly but surely disappears. As they joked with Russia and China in 2000, some DOS leaders; the Deputy Prime Minister said in time that the Chinese were giving us drugs, the third medicine world, giving us drugs, but it's for small people, it's for yellow people, those little people. You psychos. We had the worst psychopaths here. Now we have to ask China to help us. Why don't we ask these great friends of yours? And that is what Russia will do, and now, come on, President Putin, help. I don't understand one thing, and I have to ask you, and who's that supposed to help us? Is that supposed to help us from your friends? Why should it help us when your friends are doing us all right? Your friends wouldn't do us any harm. You wouldn't want your friends to kidnap a piece of territory, I'm sure they wouldn't. I'm almost totally convinced of that. So it was very important that everything that was going on, that you fight, that you hit by it, that you tell the story of whatever you think of, that we end up with that former regime. What we've come to now, let's ask Russia, China to save us from our great friends; let's pray, let's send all delegations, to seek every day, everything they ask, to veto the UN Security Council. Everything they're looking for. We don't have a spare homeland. It's our role as a country. The whole country is our stakes. What is Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? Is Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? How are we going to live as politicians, and what are we going to do, did this guy take as much or as much in that place? Poor policy would be to us all if it happened in any way. You say, "Lands in front of embassies." They're in front of the embassies. I don't know if you've met, in the past seven years, exactly 3.5 times as many people have gone from 1990 to 2000. I don't know if you had any information, but I see some of them are from the government. Not 3.5 percent more, but three and a half times more, 350 percent more people have gone over the past seven years, but ten years before, when every day we've had television shows about the criminal regime, about the criminal government, and I don't know what it's all about. Of course no government is good and no government is good. Regardless, it is very important that we all feel the state of Serbia as our own and try to find a common solution. Do we like Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica or any of the others? No, of course not. But sometimes there is something that you have to try to find a compromise or a common solution for the Serbian state. It would be good if they took care of it too, because today Boris Tadic comes out and congratulates, comes out the president of the Republic and congratulates everyone, the man said he must fight one Serbia. The man who headed a single list, a single political party, and he said he had to win. When he lost, and when he lost convincingly to the SRS, he lost easily and convincingly regardless of all the media, no resignation, no nothing, he doesn't care. As it will be with Kosovo and Metohija. I know the DS is funny to you. All I can see is Djelic isn't laughing. He's not funny. Just laugh and do your job like you've done before, so watch how fast and how massively you're going to lose support in our people. In the end, I just want to thank all the people, especially the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who kept their hearths, their houses, who kept the state of Serbia and those who kept it on the bridge in Ibra in Kosovo Mitrovica, those in Strpc, Gorazdevc, Velika Hoca, Novi Brdo, Kosovo Pomoravlje, Gracani, Caglavica, Kosovo Polje, Lebanon, and other places, Prilužje, Plemetini and Babina Most, to thank them for being much braver, smarter, stronger and better than us, because they knew that the reserve state and the country did not have. It's our job to show that we know that it belongs to them, to us and to our children, and not only as long as we're alive, because we have no right to think about just one life. The state lasts both after us and will last after our children and after our grandchildren, because Serbia is eternal, only these small politicians are transient. They were and will always be those who will think about their butt and their buttocks will be their top priority. We are against this policy and against politicians whose buttocks are top priority. Finally, after some were asked, I heard some tasteless throws from this pay phone, today all the MPs of the SRS are proud to wear T-shirts with the image of Vojislav Seselj. As you can see, we've come into suits, we've got shirts and ties. The shirt is not our clothing item, the shirt is a symbol of our protest because of what your friends are doing and what you did along with them writing an indictment against Vojislav Seselj. Today, it has a special symbolism, because in the opening statement of the indictment against Vojislav Seselj, among other things, it is said that he has made his inspired speeches, and I will quote that I would not be wrong, "if speaking of past crimes against the Serb people has increased the degree of threat of Serbs and thus prompted them to respond in the future". Which makes Vojislav Seselj... Speaking of Jasenovac, the tortures of the Serb family from 1941 to 1945? It seems that Vojislav Seselj has committed only one sin, which he did not say enough, which has been repeated to us after all, so nearly half a million people from Republika Srpska have driven us out of Republika Srpska, which is destroying our Republika Srpska, which is taking from us Kosovo and Metohija. Is that forbidden to speak? Is that wrong? It seems that these speeches will be, for God's sake, the past, and the future will be -- you are the past, so let's give every inch of our territory, because we are for modern Serbia without Serbia. We are for Serbia of all its citizens, Serbs, and Roma, and Muslims, and Hungarians, and Romanians, and Slovaks and all others, but we are unto Serbia intact, for Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, because, don't forget, there is no Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. The President of the Republic, who has better things to do right now, I don't know what else he's doing, and you, Prime Minister, and everyone else who's going to negotiate. Don't come back after that. "We couldn't, we didn't know." It's yours to say, and let them do their job, let them take what they want, and it's ours to tell them that we will never, ever admit by force, that by violence created facts we will never translate right, we will not translate them into legal and legitimate acts. It remains that, as Tomislav Nikolic said, by changing the power of the world, we return only what is ours, because we do not need others. We want to be on our own and guarantee this future to Serbia, our children and our descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29865	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a unique search on the motion for a resolution, does the motionary’s representative – the Government want to give the final statement? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29866	Dear MPs, at the end of today's debate on the resolution on Ahtisaari's proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status, I would first of all like to thank all those who have supported the resolution in today's debate and who, I am confident, will support it by their vote. I would also like to remind you that the resolution has been prepared, that there have been several participants in its preparation, that the Negotiating Team participated, that the government participated and that political parties represented in this Parliament. Therefore, the resolution is also before it came to parliament today to debate a largely collective act, a joint act. It will be an even more joint act of the moment you here in parliament vote. There's something else I want to say. In previous performances, the negotiating team has always taken care not only of the text of the resolution, not only of the mandate that we received through the text, but also of the previous and very important resolution adopted on 21 November 2005, but also of what was said in the Assembly. That's how it's gonna be now. When it comes to today's debate, it is, from the point of view of the Negotiating Team, one useful addition and a framework for the functioning of the Negotiation Team. Of course, I want to remind you of something else, so you don't forget. The negotiating team has been regularly, from the moment it was formed, following the adoption of Resolution 21 November, and I remind you that the Negotiating Team was formed immediately afterwards, informing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of all steps taken. That's how it's gonna be in the future. It's the content of the resolution you adopted, and I think it's one thing that we have to agree on and agree on. She's indisputable, no matter what was said tonight, and I said that everything that was said tonight would be of use to the Negotiating Team. Finally, to thank you once again for supporting the resolution, these votes to come. Of course, before the vote itself to take the opportunity to congratulate you tomorrow's holiday – Statehood Day, Meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-02-14-0.u29867	Before I could conclude, I wanted to give you information that another parliamentary group was formed, a parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians – the List for Sandzak. The president of the parliamentary group is Balint Pastor and Deputy Bajram Omeragic. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. Before we go to the polls, I'd like to ask the service to check the quorum. I understand 244 MPs are present in the O.R., we have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status" by UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Who's in? (225) Does anyone object? (15) Is anyone abstaining? (3) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority vote a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the 'Proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo' by UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. With the meeting tomorrow, Serbia's Statehood Day, I congratulate you all and the citizens of Serbia on this state holiday. [[Applause]] Given that we have completed the second item of the agenda, I would like to thank all the participants in the work of this session. On the continuation of the session, the Messengers of the people will be informed in good time. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Borka Vukic, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this session and, before the start of work, welcome you, congratulate you on the choice and trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in future work. I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, alongside the MPs, is attended by the president and members of the Republic Election Commission, which I also welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, First (Constitutive) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one, the youngest, national MP with four electoral lists, who received the largest number of MPs and secretary of the National Assembly, and this: – Nikola Vukelić, the youngest MP from the Election List Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj; – Konstantin Samofalov, the youngest MP from the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic; – Borko Ilic, the youngest National MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Nova Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica; – Miljan Rangelović, the youngest MP from the Electoral List G17 plus – Mladjan Dinkić – the National Assembly, the National Assembly. I ask the youngest Members of the people to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 246 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 86(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are conditions for working and deciding. The minutes from this session will be handled by the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the session shall be stenographed and recorded. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 4. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Pursuant to those provisions and to the agreement of representatives of parliamentary parties and party coalitions, the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament; 2. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on "A proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status" by UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status; 3. Selection of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 6. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 7. Proposal for a Law on Ministrys; 8. The government's choice. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Articles 7 and 8). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs gain rights and responsibilities in the National Assembly on the day of their respective mandates. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, in a constitutional session, on a proposal from the presidency, educates a three-member commission, from one member of the three electoral lists that received the largest number of parliamentary seats in the National Assembly. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of the selection of each MP is identical with the information contained in the Report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the person chairing the constitutional session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on the assurances of the election for MPs in agreement with the Report, confirming the mandate of those MPs. The National Assembly was established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the MPs (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement with this and the consultations carried out, I propose that MPs be elected to the Commission to establish the agreement of the Parliament of Parliament and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out: 1. Verica Radeta, from the Serbian Radical Party Election List – Dr Vojislav Seselj; 2. Nenad Konstantinović, from the Democratic Party Election List – Boris Tadic; 3. Milica Radovic, from the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's Electoral List. I note that, in accordance with Article 105 of Article 2 of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the Commission's education proposal to be voted by the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the consensus of the vote's assurance for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (02 People's Messengers) Who's against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (Nico) I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have accepted this proposal. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the consent of the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the Members of the Commission to hold a session immediately in Hall 1 on the ground floor. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue after a 90-minute break.
