ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6421	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events. The amendment concerns Article 2. The bill, which is amended and reads as follows: ''Article 7(3) is deleted. ''In fact, sports organisations can't be required to be responsible for the behaviour of their fans' clubs, especially when we have in mind the fact that many sports organisations have been bickered and conflicted with their fans' clubs. No one wants to worry about their children's life and safety when they're sent to a sports event. As a child, I was happy to go to games, and in particular I had one of the first games I was at – Star-Bayern, 1991 in Belgrade. At the time, I was still living in Croatia, of course, raised in the spirit of Serbian nationalism and patriotism, and I saw success in the sports field as a question of national honor and pride. As a fan, I can't understand people who, because of their alleged love for their club, can be able to cause serious physical harm or even take some life, which unfortunately happened on our own grounds. It is evident that something needs to be done in view of the increasingly frequent incidents and the ruthless scenes in our stadiums and halls. The law, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, has a number of shortcomings and contradictions. So, we have a member who says it's illegal to sell alcoholic beverages in a sports facility, which is fine, but how are you going to stop selling alcohol at a distance of one mile from a sports facility, and that, three hours before and three hours after the game that's being held? It is difficult by law to predict the closure of shops and catering facilities in such a wide circle around a sports facility. Article 20 provides for dragon sentences, so it turns out that whoever challenges alleged national hatred, for example, by pointing out some parole at a match with the Croatian national team or some Croatian club, can get a prison sentence bigger than Croatian criminals and villains who expelled and killed Serbs. You also mention the punishment of the entire group, then, a special responsibility for the group leader, and this termology reminds an overwhelming reminder of The Hague prosecution's terminology – a joint criminal enterprise and command responsibility. I sincerely hope the Hague Inquisitors weren't your inspirations to write this bill. If this law were to really apply in practice, and we know that earlier, the forbidden introduction of flags, torches, large banners, our games would look like parasites, and our stadiums would be even more empty. We know that without an audience, there are no big games, and without the big games, there are no big players, and there's no success in the sports field. Otherwise, one of the negative things that happens with us is that we mix politics, or politicians into sports. I'll give you an example from the Indji municipality. There the president of the municipality, Goran Jesic, took over the FK "Indji" and the club immediately turned out to be a lower level of competition that same season. Serbia's government is adopting amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events and predicts rigorous penalties. If so, he should first sanction his newly roasted adviser, Goran Jesic, for the tragic event that took place in India. Namely, 13 September 2006, following the first league match "Telecom Serbia" between FK "Indji" and BASK from Belgrade, which ended in 1:1, dissatisfied with Judge Goran Jeknic's trial, municipality president Goran Jesic and his brother Vladimir physically dealt with the unfortunate judge. According to numerous eyewitnesses at the entrance to the locker room, Vladimir Jesic spit on Judge Jeknic, and then, in the general chaos that arose, he managed to slip through the legs of the commissioner for security and the unfortunate judge between the legs. The judge somehow managed to get away with it, avoid the castration, which Vladimir Jesic intended for him, whom the citizens of Indjije called – the Government of Cagan, fled to the locker room, but then the president of the municipality, Goran Jesic, flew into the locker room and started hitting the judge savagely. From severe bodily injuries, the judge was rescued by representatives of the club Filipovic Dragan and Miljanic Aleksandar, who stopped and calmed Jesic. Goran Jesic DS represents Serbia's most successful mayor, not only the mayor, but only the president of the municipality, and how successful the results of the past parliamentary elections are, when the DS in Indjija, whose list was Jesic, won 23% of the vote against 44%, of how much it won the SRS. Jesic is a successful, even one of the most successful in the "yellow" company when it comes to land sales and attractive locations in Indjia. Thus, he sold to a private company in Belgrade land belonging to the Agricultural Association at the price of one euro per square cent. It was then brought to the site by the Peperse Group, and invested around 700m euros in the construction of infrastructure on the private land. The owner of the land publicly boasts that the land is now worth 10 to 20 euros per square cent. The Peppers performance, by the way, was followed by a number of machinations. The place where the concert was held was registered as an important archaeological site "Rupina" and this archaeological site is now completely destroyed. When I mention the performance of "Pepers", it should be pointed out that Jesic initially deceived citizens and the public of Serbia by announcing a concert, and in fact the contract clearly states that it is only a festival performance and that the "Pepers" will perform only 12 songs. When it comes to cloudy business in India, which is too much, I'll give you another example. At the end of 2005, a decision by the Indji Municipality Directorate was given to 99 years of Mercator allegedly unbuilt construction land, which included three buildings that housed public enterprises. The buildings were destroyed and destroyed, of course, by the company "Ival Komerc", owned by a council member in the Indji Municipality and Jesic's coalition partner, Sreten Jovanovic. It is not such a problem that Jovanovic Jesic is a coalition partner, but the question of how unbuilt building land can be considered a land on which there have been buildings for 80 years, which have even been registered as cultural historical monuments. As someone charges for the demolition on allegedly unbuilt construction land, but if you are in Indjia coalition partner Goran Jesic, you are obviously allowed everything. The general public, Jesic, became known right after the five-octobaric coup, which he actively participated in. Many Indjia citizens remember his return from Belgrade to Indjia, when he proudly showed gathered citizens parts of stolen furniture from the burned federal assembly. (President: Mr. Seculic, I think we're a little off topic) Mr. Albian, wait, and you'll finally figure out what the point is. Celebrating such a successful robbery, in Jesic's manner, a real vandal, he released unarticulated screams and so roaring that he was satisfied with the spoils, according to counterpart Markovic. It was probably his best recommendation to make DOS president of the Indji municipality. And what now recommended that Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic appoint him as his adviser for direct investment? Is the deception and false promises of building a spa in India? The story of the spa was his backbone in the campaign for past local elections. He even had videos showing this nonexistent spa. Then, we had a story about bringing up the burning factory. The Burning factory built its own plant, but in the municipality of Stara Paz, where the SRS rules. Next, we had another delusion about construction of the Donkafe factory. The factory never came to India either, but was built on the territory of the municipality of Pecinci. Jesic promised the arrival of the German factory "Mehler AG", but of course there was nothing. Here, I will give you just one more example, in early 2006 Jesic repeatedly announced on local television for several months that Italians would invest in Indji and build the largest paper factory in the Balkans. He even boasted that the foundation stone for the factory would be laid, personally, by the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. And there was nothing of it, and Jesic then took no note that on August 4, 2006, on the show "Eyes to the Eyes", on the "Sremska" TV of the same Berlusconia called "the dumbest Italian". The success of Jesic is best seen from the data since April 2007, when the Executive Major of Vojvodina's Indjije was classified, in the Executive Council of the DS exercises power, in the order of underdeveloped municipalities. The appointment of Jesic as adviser and its introduction into the Serbian government speaks best of the nature of the coalition of the new-old DOS. So Jesic will sit in the government whose president, Vojislav Kostunica, in the magazine 'Standard', here, called the magazine 'Standard' – 'Local Djiber', and Velimir Ilic, claims that Velja Ilic is proof that in Serbia every fool can become a minister. (President: Mr. Vukelic, please choose terms for the assembly speaker) I quote statements from your coalition partner. Here, when you insist and I'll read it to you. To the journalist's question as to how he assesses the approaching DS and DSS, Jesic answers: "If I were wondering, with the DSS I would never make a coalition, but I don't wonder. When someone sees Velimir Ilic, any fool in Serbia can say – I could be a minister too. And he's right. ''The people's saying has again been fulfilled that similar to similar joy, so the Duke of the Meridian Bank, Bozidar Djelic, is now really getting a big boost, and the DOS Government, which is otherwise moved by the carriage and rope, has really touched the bottom by entering Jesic in the government. Here, since Albianic warns me, I'll stick to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6422	Mr. Vukelic, please do not advertise Mr. Jesic anymore, while at the same time I ask you to take care of the terms for the assembly pay phone you pronounce. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, I hope you haven't woken up enough yet, so you act the way you behave or think what our colleague, Mr. Vukelic, is younger than you are given the right to act the way you acted. Your obligation was to, in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, you are ageing among other things and the order in this room. Members of the ruling coalition have been speaking very loudly all the time, none of them even listened, I don't know why, and I don't know why, probably because of your suggestions, they didn't listen to Mr. Vukelic. We have warned you from the congregation benches that you should try the bell to appease your messengers. Instead, Mr. Albianic, you interrupted the speaker, which you have no right to, because that was not the case provided for by the Rules of Procedure and you had to wait for the end of Mr. Vukelic's exposure, so you might understand what he was talking about. So the whole discussion was connected to the agenda point and to Mr. Vukelic's amendment. He spoke about the link between politics and sports, talking about how DS destroyed both club and representative sports in Serbia. Whatever club you've entered, you've destroyed that club from the Red Star basketball club, look at the handball alliance, who's the president - member of the DS. Where's our handball? We no longer exist on the handiwork of the world or Europe, and we were once a world power. Look at basketball, who took over basketball? The Yellow Company. Where's the basketball? We don't exist anymore, we won't be in the Olympics either, and we used to win three medals at the Olympics. Look at the other sports, so wherever you're involved, you've completely destroyed those sports branches. So, Mr. Albianic, next time before you interrupt one of the SRS MPs, try, I know it's not easy, to understand the reach of our words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6424	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure, head of the LDP parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6425	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, I will have to and I will be forced to reroute our debate in another direction than she did after the previous discussion. I, as head of our parliamentary group, received a letter from the Secretary of the Assembly, which was sent to all MP groups on behalf of the strike committee of Kursumli and the entire Toplice. It is about a request under the heading "We want justice", in which all MP groups are praying to take the problem seriously and to keep in mind where the strikers come from. The bullets, the Cup, the Blaze, Bruce, the Alexandrovac, the Žitora are waiting for you to finally solve our problem and prove that justice exists and that we are all equal before the law. The situation our society is facing is, at this point, more than serious. There are a lot of problems that have occupied our daily policy, but first of all, I would ask you, Mr. Jocic, that, as a representative of the Government, you are a little more involved in this matter, not only as a resolution minister, but I would also ask the leadership of the Assembly, since there is no chairman of the Defence and Security Committee here to allow us to discuss before the relevant assembly committee, in order to define some answer to the problem facing our society. We've witnessed a strike that lasts for more than a week, we've witnessed one police intervention, we've witnessed an escalation of this strike that is more than dramatic at this point. Strikers reject medical assistance, they barricaded in the municipality's assembly and there is no official reaction to it unless the official reaction is the government's idea of forming a working group. We insist on a more effective answer and debate on this issue, taking into account, among other things, and a completely different reaction to one not long ago ended the hunger strike of a church dignitary, according to which the government took a completely different view than the one that took on the protest of hundreds of people. If these people are wrong, then they need to be told in a reasonable and clear way, and if they're right, then that agony should be interrupted as soon as possible and we would like it to happen today. So, I ask you, Mr Albianic, as well as you, Mr Jocic, to have the Government and Parliament discuss this matter as soon as possible, within the board of directors, of course, and then the delegation of Parliament, and not just the working group of the Government, take an active part in solving this problem. We've all been going to these places during the election campaign. You know very well what the atmosphere is like in these environments, you know how much, and without this protest, life in Kursumlia, Bruce, Alexandrovac, Blacu, Prokuplje, Žitoraji difficult. The strikers, among other things, decided to keep their children in their homes, including children involved in a protest through a boycott of school classes. Parliament can't keep quiet about it. There are inconclusive explanations offered by the Ministry of Defense. They're confusing and they have to be much more specific. Parliament exists to solve problems like this, among other things. So I expect from Parliament and the Government a better answer. The task force is not enough, especially not, given, I repeat once again, the government's reaction to a two-week-old hunger strike by the rule of Fillaretta. The ministers visited him, disturbed interstate relations, it was a political topic that paid a lot of attention. I'm not saying it wasn't necessary, but here a few hundred people strike for two weeks and that strike has entered a phase that will completely get out of control unless it responds quickly. So we're looking for a reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6426	We will forward the request, if I understand correctly, to hold a session of the Defence and Security Committee, asking you to formally submit a request for a session, as a parliamentary group. The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, has the word on the amendment. The remaining time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one more thing to add to this extremely meaningful amendment in three minutes, as well as everything that the distinguished young colleague Nikola Vukelic said. You of the DS could see all the criminals in your ranks, but it was funny to you, what one man, who cheers and dresses in one city of Srem, can do, and in a short time, gain a huge fortune, abuse the law, do unhindered and do whatever he wants in the country. You should, Mr. Minister, deal with this issue, because he is not a local sheriff, it is not a restricted area where the authorities of the MUP should not come and check all of this, whether there is only crime or there is traffic and everything, especially in the manifestations of character that fellow Vukelic spoke of. For a reason, the SRS, and on our behalf, submitted an amendment to delete point 3 of Article 7. The law, because the one you added to the amendment of Article 7, is pointless, in the right sense, that word. Namely, the member refers to making it clearer for fellow MPs and the public what sports clubs and organisations need to do in the preparatory work before the fan groups and organisations go to the visiting games. A member is well imagined, it's idealistic, if it could, Mr. Jocic, but you can't and you know that in practice it's not possible. So, sports affirmation, correct cheerleading, cheerleading of its club, representations, participation in the most positive way, in the national spirit, as Serbian fans do, is something to mean. Then it was quite unthinkable to get into a member of the law, and then you say -- to encourage positive cheerleading, I guess every fan knows, doesn't go there with any premeditation to break, to break. Now there's such an impression in the public that this is where the disturbed people come in, who don't know what they're going to do with themselves. Of course, there's always a bad guy. You know that the SRS is the only political party whose events never occurred and we always invite people, the public, now and fans, to correctness, to sports cheerleading. How will you, Mr. Jocic, explain to anyone in any club in Serbia, whether it is "Partizan", "Star", "Hajduk" from The Tower, "Vojvodina", "Progress", which has now entered the first league, how will you explain to those fans and clubs, and how they will make the most ideal deal, how they will prevent what happened to them from happening to the Football Club "Partizan" at the Zrinjski-Partizan game. If this point is respected, and it is pointless, because you cannot influence it, first of all, sometimes it happens that cheerleading groups, as well as Mr. Tomic, do not want to communicate, some of them, with club management, because there is a misunderstanding, and especially because DS, which is also spoken of by counterpart Sarovic, infiltrated in all the pores of our sport. Neither are you from the DSS immune to the boards of directors and everything you put your paws on. We're about to carry out a complete depoliticalization of sports. If you'll just give me one more minute, Mr. Albianic, I'll finish by quoting the point that my colleague Vukelić is asking to delete. So, he asks to delete the point: ''3) co-ordinate activities with their fans' clubs during organized attending sports events where these sports organisations – clubs and their fans are visiting'. Yes, they were visiting. They went to Mostar, moved from the Serbian side, from Nevesinj's people, several buses with younger people. The structure of these people was, for your information, not the social character, there were people who were masters of science, people who were entrepreneurs, young people, students, people who were excellent students in high schools, they went to a brave Serbian club, playing a game against a club that had pictures of Francis Tudjman, Bobetka and others in its rooms. They were waiting for blood and a knife, and nothing was caused, just because they cheered up their club, went through incredible horrors, with gunshot wounds, with gellers in their hands, with such beatings and what happened, which was unremembered and unrecorded. In fact, it is, but not at the games that are happening in Europe, but at a game where a Serbian club plays against a club from Croatia, where there is an incredible hatred that has been directed towards the Serbian people for centuries, that they kill, that they slaughter, that they persecute us and that they do it all. Now you say they should go there, but be correct and fair and cheer. And they went, shouting out the passwords of Serbian heroes, shouting out what was good for their club and what had they experienced? So he's a nonsensical member, and that's why he asked his colleague Vukelic to delete himself. From this very provision, Mr. Jocic, if you've been following these past seven days, that as criminals of the worst rank fans are being chased for something they do in the stadium, that they get such prison sentences, that's why they all sign up and that's why all the fans, no matter what club they're rooting for, are telling you "you in the chairs, we're in the marches". Now, let's change that a little bit, then to prisons, as the jargons say, "mardelje" fans go to Jesic and the other DS criminals you protect, and people go free to go to games and cheer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6428	The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6429	Of course, MPs can speak both rope and wider, but only for the sake of detailing things, they have heard here so far, probably even during today's day, those remarks, are those amendments relating to the existing Law, which was adopted in 2003. However, it seems to me that amendments and discussions should only be on what is before you, and that is the bill on amendments and amendments to the law. So he can change the amendment and intervene the amendment. However, what was brought here in 2003 cannot be deleted. Look, I'm simply in a situation where I'm the subject of an opposition attack on that law I didn't even make in 2003 and whose solutions I didn't foresee. Normally, I would ask you about this amendment, because in no word was there any conclusion about these amendments that we are making by law. It's supposed to be the subject of a discussion, of words like "the theater," the extension of the concept of "the theater" and the other. You're transferring and talking about attitude 3. The 2003 law. However, we have before us amendments and additions to the Law, and they need to be responded to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6430	There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, president of the LDP parliamentary group. Then, the replica has Natasa Jovanovic, she was recognized in your discussion by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6431	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can't be a debate like this, Mr. Jocic, especially after the previous agenda. It's very interesting that your interpretation of Parliament's right and freedom to amend the law they're discussing through amendments. I'll remind you that you were the first to break the rule you're talking about right now. We discussed before this point, among other things, the amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship, am I right? The very precise government cited reasons for the urgency and justification of changes and additions to the law. Exceptionally, the amendment and addition of the Law on Citizenship was built on the fact that, by the end of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a number of citizens were left without citizenship, and the state of Serbia is therefore obliged to allow them to gain citizenship under certain conditions. You, on the proposal of your MP, have adopted an amendment that has become an integral part of the Law, which has nothing to do with amendments and additions to the Law on the agenda. I remind you that this is the amendment that allows everyone to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their residence, and with very stretching criteria such as those that prove their business ability or willingness to declare themselves a member of the Serb people. So the explanation that you are offering here is not consistent and what you are doing cannot come to an understanding in Parliament. Of course MPs have the right to amend and supplement the law and treat it in a way that is wider than the one the proposing meant, given that this is the essence of our debate. The parliamentary majority and the government are here to agree or not, and I remind you that you have already broken the rule you are calling for today, and therefore your rule does not have to be respected and respected during this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6432	There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic – a replica, then, according to the Businessman Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is simply wrong. I'm really amazed by your reaction, Mr. Minister, given that you've been a graduate lawyer and that for at least 10 years you've been a folk MP. The Rules of Procedure will tell you every MP in the hall from your political party, I can later let you look at, to remind yourself, article 145. The Rules of Procedure define when the MP can submit an amendment and in what form. A colleague, Nikola Vukelić, reacted and gave this meaningful amendment, which you should accept, which deletes point 3), which is, however, defined by the adoption of the Law three years ago, because it is about point 6, which you are now asking to supplement in the Law, and with all that I have said that they are bound, which is impossible, to meet this whole form, sports organisations to encourage the organisation and good behavior of their fans and their clubs, he could also delete it, but come on, the pro form left behind, so, that is, it implies, that one fan club would work. That it needs to inform its fans, meetings with fans, issue of newsletters and others – it is one legal obligation that is also pointless. Some club can do it, others won't. There are newsletters that have nothing to do with the sports club itself, but sometimes the fan groups themselves betray it, publish it and have their own way of advertising. It's so pointless that you've committed a sports club to that, too. This point 3, which I was just quoting, and my colleague Vukelić is asking to be deleted, is almost identical with 1) and 2), i.e. you are now adding point 6). Mr. Minister has gone, and now I have to speak to you, Mr. Todorovic. It is said: "It promotes positive behaviour and the performance of players and officials before, during and after a sporting event". Each player will behave positively because it is in the nature of his sporting activity. And Mr Dragutinovic, a respected representative of Serbia, acted sportingly, but it is not his fault that he attacks him on the spot as the selector of a team. What, he's got to stand there and take a blow to the head! So, there are things that you can't predict, and they're self-conceived as something that's not affirmative, that no one in their right mind is going to do, and that's what you put into law and you make a club binding. It's impossible to do that. Mr. Jocicu, therefore, when it comes to one member of the law, regardless of the changes and additions, if you respond to that member, therefore, we could hypothetically submit the amendment and ask to delete point 1), point 2) and point 5, you understand, it was just important that there was this member that was changing. Article 7 of the Basic Law is amended. (President: Time.) Here, I'm done now. You are wrong, because if you were right, Mr. Jocic, the Legislative Committee, which previously considered this amendment, would have informed counterpart Nikola Vukelic that the amendment is not legally possible. The amendment is legally possible because he reacted to point 3 which, however, is not subject to an amendment by this Member of the Law, but has submitted it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If it wasn't possible, he'd be rejected and said it wasn't legally possible. You're now saying that the SRS parliamentary group didn't know how to submit the amendment and that we reacted to something that didn't exist. We have responded to an entire member of the Law, Mr Vukelic has as an MP fulfilled the form required by the Rules of Procedure, and it is legally possible and not accepted. Otherwise, his amendment, Mr. Jocic, I almost told you a colleague, I remembered when you were an MP, it couldn't be found at all in the congregation procedure. Do you understand? There's no reason to be angry about it. (President: Time.) ) Here I am finishing what he was reacting to. Here, look and you'll see in article 145. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6434	We can resolve the dilemma. Simply, the Legislative Committee said the amendment was legally possible. The MPs have the right to submit amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word is Minister Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6435	Let me just say that Mr. Jovanovic and Mrs. Natasha are right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6436	Thank you, Mr. Minister. There is a word from MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6437	Mr. Chairman, the Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we could bring one amendment to say that this law is unnecessary – that should have been done at the very beginning. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law was passed in 2003. I would ask a question for the government, because it cannot only be answered by the minister – how many criminal charges have been filed under this current law, how many people have the prosecution prosecuted in the courts for violations, and, after all, how many people have been convicted or punished? I can give you an answer for this third zero right now. So it's not that this previous law wasn't right, it wasn't applied. Gentlemen, this is a set of laws relating to the Ministry of the Interior. There is a Law of Public Order and Peace here, the Law of Citizens Gathering. Also, the Sports Act and there's a Criminal Law. All this trouble was supposed to be regulated in those four laws. This law comes as some lex specialis compared to the Law on Public Order and Peace and the Law on Citizens Gathering. When we withdraw one parallel, Mr. Minister, this is the law you are discriminating the gatherings, because there are other gatherings that are regulated through this law. There are political gatherings, there are union gatherings, there are religious gatherings. You've singled out only sports events and sports gatherings. Let's just say, in the Law of Public Order and Peace, I also consider some sports event, the baklads are regulated. Why not add a number of sports members to that Law. So the misbehaving of citizens, regulated by the Law on Public Order and Peace, in my opinion, is absolutely not a problem in bad law, but in its application. This is where "Partizan" and his behavior in Mostar was mentioned. Did the Partizan Club punish the state, gentlemen? Is he punished by any law? It's not. There are associations, there are alliances, there are their rules. "Partizan" was in line with the rules of an international association. It's also something, when there's a law on associations that needs to be thought about, everything can't be transferred to the police. Mr. Minister, you must consider that the police should be protected, although through this law a much greater responsibility has been given to the organizers. Why wasn't there any failure at the 'Partisan' game in Belgrade? Because they had been preparing fans for five days and taking every step of the way in the matter of redistribution services and others. Mr. Minister, you should think that when you hire the police, the one who hires the police through your estimates or the estimate of your services pays the police. Everyone in that stadium, players playing for money, viewers pay for pleasure, directors get salaries, everyone else gets certain fees, only your cops work for free on these shows. Okay, you can laugh, but I think you should think about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6438	Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? (No) National MP Vlado Sekulic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6439	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehaving in Sports Events. The amendment says that Article 3 after Article 1 adds Article 2 which reads as follows: 'In point 5', after the word 'hate' is replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. '"What inspired me to write this amendment like this is that in the proposal, Article 20, and what the Minister, Mr Jocic, said, that we, the MPs of the SRS, followed the bill, but that we... (Dear Jocic: We confessed. You confessed? Well, whoever confesses, half of them are forgiven, Mr. Minister. We followed this bill. We have just been paying attention to the draft law supplementing this law, and this is why I insisted on this amendment, as you have given it – who, by his behaviour or paroles, causes racial, religious, national or other intolerance and hatred, or whose content is offensive, so I have put it this way in the amendment – who, by his behaviour or parole, causes racial, religious, national intolerance or hatred, to be the point. Why? By the Constitution, you know it's forbidden to challenge religious, national and racial hatred. We followed the Constitution and we put an end to what is the point of this entire amendment, which you have given. Mr. Minister, I attended the Security Committee, chaired by Dacic in one period, in the other part Mr. Shormaz and here, Mr. Todorovic was, it was seen that the SRS really had good proposals, good attitudes, good amendments. We have apostrophe of this amendment, especially because it is extremely difficult to formulate what impatience is. I asked Mr. Todorovic what would happen if he played Serbia's team with the Croatian team if our fans simply protest against the anthem or exclaim paroles against Croats, would then arrest all fans who cheer for Serbia at the stadium, and would allow Croatian fans to exclaim passwords – Serbs to willows and others. Animosity is something that is quite problematic. The law provides for as many as eight to ten years, perhaps going to prison for that member, or I should go from another law to rape for three years. How will you assess who in the group caused impatience or anything else? Here, I'll explain the follow-up to my amendment: ''Station. 2. The proposal is deleted. Article 3 is amended as follows: When a viewer or a group of viewers acts contrary to the orders of the directorial service or physically attacks its members, the authorised person of the Ministry shall act without delay in accordance with the Law on Public Order and Peace. ''So, what was before that, that from one part of the theatre intended for fans – 'and prevents them from crossing from one part of the theatre for fans of one club to another', it is understood that the director's office must do its job, but that the Ministry of Interior, the forces of the militia always present at the stadium, must intervene at the moment when one critical situation occurs, or that they prevent and, by their actions, which they are responsible for, prevent a close encounter of a group of fans or crossing, entering a stadium, playing field, assaulting football players and others. It comes to sports courts to cheer and there's no need for cheerleading to turn into a memorial gathering. The competent authorities should do their job, which means the police should take care of public order and peace in every place, including sports grounds. This bill on cheerleaders, which we are now considering, has a lot of gaps. First of all, there were errors in the part where everything can be brought to the stadium, according to this proposal, only a hat, a scarf and a marked shirt, a uniform. So if someone comes in the hood, if they have a fan group logo, they won't be able to get in. Second, flags. That's later, when we on our committee suggested that the flag be entered, then the amendment was given to allow the flag to be entered. There's a problem with the size for which reasons they're allowed to enter the stadium. Mrs. Samardzic and Mr. Senic, when they participated, said that a rigorous law from England would be applied, which came into effect after an unfavorable event at the Juventus-Liverpool game, when 36 Italian fans were tragically killed. Then Mrs Margaret Thatcher was prime minister and she introduced a rigorous law against English fans. We know that the English fans before that were the cradle of hooligans and that they always made riots. When the law was introduced, and many who have not been to the game have not seen, they do not know that the body that goes this way and writes – who enters the stadium will pay a thousand pounds of sterling or three years in prison, from one year and a half to three years in prison. Now, look how English fans enter the stadium, don't bring flags, but as soon as they get out of England, the biggest riots with human casualties happen where English fans are. I've seen Mr. Dacic following, he knows that even now the Millwall fans and West Hema fans are the worst fans in the world, in terms of riots and everything else. Now that we compare Millwall fans, West Hem fans, it means Liverpool, Manchester, Chelsea, they're quiet football teams. If we were to compare to "Partisan", "Star", literally neither "Partisan" nor "Star" are anywhere near those other groups. Look in Italy and Germany, you have the right to enter the flags, all the markings of the club you're rooting for. That's the problem with whoever wrote it, they don't understand what the Law is about preventing violence at sports events. He thinks there's just a Star, a Partizan, and maybe if they know about another club. Mrs. Samardzic was in Norway, I followed that. It prefers these Nordic disciplines, skiing, but also flags are allowed there, even fans on ski trails, jumpers and everything else. Here, look, in England, the law is rigid, and as soon as the fans go somewhere, something is made. So it's a matter of prevention to us. In Italy, torches and flags are allowed, but there are no riots. Look at Germany, a country that may play, or Spain, best football. All of this is allowed, and in our case it was forbidden, because Mrs Samardzic explained that our fans would hide behind the flags. It's the elemental ignorance of fans. The fans never hide behind the flags, and besides, here, there's the minister, you know that the cameras are set up in the stadium, so you can record anyone who's causing any kind of mess. The SRS argues there are no riots, there are no human casualties, the destruction of basic assets in the stadium, but also against this repressive law, it's extremely repressive. Here, I also read Mr. Senic what he said -- that the strict measures will be applied, so if you yell at the Serbia-Croatian "resist" game, you may go to jail for 10 years. That's why our audience will have to keep quiet so they won't go to jail, and they'll yell "Serves on willows" and everything else, so we'll get into a situation where there'll be nothing more favourable to be done. Here, when I was getting ready for this, I came in and watched what the minister was writing, what was it, how she pictured the law. She even stated that many famous athletes would educate our fans and, normally, apostrophe, I had no doubt that I would see the Wilde name here. I see you're preparing a campaign for Mr. Divac, for mayor or I don't know what else, maybe he'll replace Mr. Tadic. Mr. Divac is all there, but convince me, here, the minister is there, so he will represent the interests, when Mr. Divac goes to the Star fans, you know how he will educate them there and explain to them – what will he explain to them? He said it was the biggest shame he played for the Red Star basketball club when he was a free agent, when he had not yet signed a contract between Charlotte and Sacramento Kings, but therefore he patriotically took for the four games he played back then in the League of Champions 1.4 million marks. Just for the record. So now Mr. Divac will go there, or Gurovic. Gurovic played in "Star" and "Partizan", but is now more fond of "Stars". To go to "Partizan," and those who go with him, I believe they won't live to get out of there. Simply, the campaign is like Mr. Divac showing up here and he's gonna help something. Here, it's basically what I had a grudge about, have you ever thought about hearing a fan's voice? Here, now I'm going to read you what fans say about this bill, and I think it's logical to hear their side, too, simply, can't just one side apply rigid and repressive measures and the other nothing. The Tribin site, and there's talk of a half-metre fence, the law in England, and how English fans behave. Here, I'll just have two segments and I'll finish, so my colleagues can continue. The first segment - the state is falling apart as they pass the law on fans, as always fans are the problem number one in this fallen country. I picked this one, and maybe it'll show why fans are so aggressive at games, it's known, according to the interior ministry statistics, that the average year of fans is 22 years old, they're the guys who are the hottest in the games. They say this - and you politicians, pawns, their state puppets and other gentlemen, you will continue to rob the country along and across, to launder and collect stolen money in your bank accounts in exotic countries, to sniff 'white' on your briefings, to drive the best car that the people have bought you, to fly where they cool you with palm leaves above your heads, to smuggle cigar trucks across the canal from the top, to sell 'below the grain' anything that can be sold in this country, to pick up a dime and a percentage, while others for you to go to jail. Well, it won't be possible, gentlemen dear, you've made a little mistake in the budget! Every normal person will know who this fan statement was referring to, and it is known who it refers to, the ones who are now in power, who deal with these crimes and all the other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6440	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure and then Milosav Milickovic, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6441	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'm taking the opportunity and the presence of the Home Secretary to request a few notes and explanations. First of all, it's connected, somewhat, to this agenda point, and that's -- are some of the people who owned football clubs lit up, first of all, and the murder of former Secretary of the Football Federation Branko Bulatovic, the murder of the owner of "Bezhanija", "Stars" and some other clubs? That's one question. Unfortunately, more or less crime and criminals rule our football. I'll only limit myself to football. The second question, i.e. an application for information or an explanation, also, with some topic that is current today, which is – is whether the official position of the MUP, is known for reasons of security or security, that some people, who are detainees in Central Prison, are still in the District Prison in Belgrade or Central Prison, although they are sentenced to a long-standing prison sentence and should, for example, be held in "Zabela" or "Mitrovica", for reasons that, allegedly, due to proceedings in other cases should be brought to court, so this could cause security problems, is that the MUP position? The same people have a very privileged status in the Central Prison, write essays, novels, etc., celebrate birthdays, even some of them went home to celebrate family members' birthdays, and just to see if it was the position of the MUP or the position of the administration or the institution for the execution of criminal sanctions, or the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6442	Home Secretary, Mr. Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6443	It is a perfectly correct finding by MP Batic that crime dominates our football. A large amount of money, a large amount of power, a link between organised crime and these structures must have brought about consequences such as the murders that were mentioned. Of course, you know that it is not easy to discover such murders as are targeted, organized and probably not in Serbia either. However, the MUP is working thoroughly and thoroughly to study and collect facts about all the murders. So, all these murders you mentioned. Of course, the solution, I repeat again, is not easy, but surely at one point it will not only be a priority but it will create conditions to freeze and enter into this kind of organized crime that you mentioned. Again, it's not easy at all, because it's about large amounts of money, a social layer that's quite closed and very big interests. That's the answer to the first question. The answer to the second question is out of the MUP. What the MUP is doing now is helping with the foreign security of prisons in Bachvanska. I don't know, procedurally or under the Penal Code, whether, when a person has been convicted by law, he should go to the maintenance of that sentence, regardless of whether there are other cases that are in criminal proceedings, but there needs to be a percentage. I also don't know which prison is safer. Is this one in Bachvanska? As far as I know, he's not exactly safe in general, or he's safe in a firehouse, or a special ward of that prison, which he is. In any case, the address is the Ministry of Justice and that organisational unit that deals with the enforcement of office sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6444	By amendment, MP Milosav Milickovic, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the amendment tabled by my colleague Sekulic, I would like to say a few words, and in my introduction, I speak the following. The basic idea of this 2003 law, and especially the proposed amendments to the Law, is a strong tendency to wrongly remove responsibility from the competent state authorities, which are paid to often maintain law order and respect by means of coercion. These authorities are empowered to use all means of coercion, as appropriate and current. These proposed changes largely transfer part of the responsibility to sports organisations, or clubs, whose security, directors, have no authority, are not even allowed to use bats. Fifteen years ago, a truly massive football match was organized in Belgrade, we have already heard the example of Red Star-Bayern, etc. And with more than 100,000 viewers present, no significant incidents. Often serious incidents occurred during the local Red Star derby – Partizan, but then qualified police forces successfully solved all relatively small use of force, coercion. Experience from that time should be used. Not everything was so bad back then, and not everything was so great after the 2000 terrorist mob coup. It's very strangely predicted sanctioning offenders. For the application of easier and more serious physical infringements, sanctions are already provided for in the existing Criminal Law and why discrimination is imposed by parallel law. The milder forms of violations should be carried out by law enforcement, as my colleagues had previously spoken. All television broadcasts of games played abroad show that reasonable use of pyrotechnic means is tolerated, especially respecting the terrain, or battlefield. It is therefore illogical to sanction even the possession of pyrotechnics, and to sanction the rational use of pyrotechnics. Only reckless use of pyrotechnic means, which can lead to interruption of matches or injury to the audiences present, or players, should be severely sanctioned. In the proposed amendments to the Law, it is obvious that, again at the small door, the sanctioning of a verbal delinquent is in place, and this practice has long been abolished throughout the civilized world. In short, according to the existing, basic law and even more proposed amendments to the Law, it is obvious that the basic desire to free the paid professional police service from responsibility and to transfer most of the responsibility to sports organisations, i.e. clubs that, according to existing regulations, cannot even have the usual adequate security that would have the necessary powers and resources. Perhaps it is part of the event ahead of an upcoming series of elections at all levels, to avoid police intervention, because, according to the theatre pieces of immortal Nusic, then always shouts - the government down there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6446	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6447	Mr. Albianic, that's an art. 136, 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure. I believe that the proposer of this law should come out for this speaker, the representative of the legislator, that if there is a need to create an elaborate, that some introduction, 20 minutes, half an hour, 45 minutes and give us a detailed explanation of what this is all about. What's this about, Mr. Jocic? We're not talking about physical culture here, we're not talking about something called normal sports. We are not talking about the development of the body and the spirit of our children, the youth and something that made old Greece recognizable, etc. We're talking about a business that's called – professional sport. Since we're talking about this activity that's full of deviance, because basically there's money, then all the actors and participants in it are some who sort of acquire funds, clubs get fame, resources and potential opportunities to sell, they're a gladiatorial part of this, and the audience, they're the ones who are eager for blood, violence, problems, etc. Given how we got to this law, and Mr. Jocic, I need to remind you how we got to this law. About two weeks before someone killed Zoran Djindjic was one basketball game "Star" – "Zagreb" in "Pionir". At that time, there was a large group of fans who carried some banners that were clearly directed against Cedomir Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and some others, and even some of them were in the O.R. These were messages that they said about each other – we brought you into power, we didn't bring you here to do that, and we didn't bring you here to do that. Then Lutra got mad and said he'd seduce the order. It's something that's not even legal. I don't know how to define this. If I'm rooting for a club, if I'm rooting for my country, then I don't want to go to games under this law. Why don't I go? Because, according to this law, everyone's already been charged when they get to the football game. Whether an indictment will be filed, depending on the officer, depends on the director, depends on some authorized official, but theoretically anyone can be punished under this law. I recommend that citizens not go to football games at all, basketball games... (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) Just one more second, Mr. Albian, you won't lose anything. (President: it's been two or three seconds. All right, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6448	On Article 3(2) of the amendment, the Committee on Defence and Security submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, this amendment is in close contact with what counterpart Vukelic and I spoke about together with him when we discussed Article 2. Nonsense, now expanded in the basic law of Dusan Mihajlovic and the then DOS government, which can never be implemented in action, which, so far, is based on several points of Article 16 and Article 2. The law, cost sports clubs in our country. Because, probably because of the budget filling, or because of ignorance or unrealisticity in considering the situation as coming and going fans, fan groups and visitors, you have made a commitment to sports clubs, imagine now, by changing Article 16(2), which is related to what counterpart Vukelić was talking about at the beginning – to co-operate with his fans' club and to participate in organising their arrival and departure from the sports event. First of all, Mr. Jocic, you know very well that it's not the case when you arrive, it's about the guests, the game some sports club fans are going to, that they're working with the club. Sometimes the club doesn't get them at all. They come and say – we are ready to go to the finals of the "Ravoja Koraća" cup in basketball, which last year played in Kragujevac, so since KK "Partizan" played with this Covic club, where otherwise all the mob group, in the finals of that cup, came 10-12 fans' buses, you think they all have connections to the sports club. They had no connection, in one part maybe, but there are people who organize, pay and raise money and go. They have their own organizations and they know each other, they hear from the phones, and they're on their way to cheer for their club. What's worse, Mr. Jocic, is that you now want this law to confirm that they are in a permanent relationship, and they are not, with their sports clubs and that they must, as obedient students on a field trip, return home. Explain to me, please, which sports club, this is really funny, to make these fans' clubs and people who go about their expenses, expensive money and pay to come back – by keeping records. You want to keep records, like on a tourist trip, when you make a list of passengers, as this one sat in seat number three, and this one can't, but it changed its seat, this is really pointless. It wouldn't be such a shame if it just stood in line, but this is why sports organisations are being punished. The fine is no more than 300,000 to half a million dinars, but 300,000 to a million dinars. As you could have, Mr. Jocic, as minister, to predict, and many fans barely got their head out alive, I mention again, because it's the biggest incident on the visiting field that took place almost three months ago, that the Partizana fans will come back and get back from the Ustasha litter, from Mostar, against the game they played with the open Ustasha and the anti-Serbian Club "Zrinski". How could you commit that club now, to say, listen, you have to keep a record and sign out there who got on the bus or the van, those people running around with their heads no matter how they got up, the police chased them to beat them facelessly and with firearms attacked the naked people. I've told you, you may have remembered or not, you've received an official report, Mr. Minister, to withdraw once, and to a quiet child from Katz, near Novi Sad, it's happened that the geller hit him in the shoulder, not guilty or in debt. He left because he likes to cheer for his club, go with a joke, a hat, in a uniform, and it happened to him. You're asking the club to collect these who, God forbid, are in the hospital, who are so finished, to say that you have to go back to that destination where you came from and where you parked and where to go, this is ridiculous, and if not all together and number, the club has to pay up to a million dinars, which has often happened. You know what the worst part is? You have to have operational knowledge of the services that do it, especially when it comes to the role of the gendarmes at high-risk games. It happens, Mr. Jocic, that the guilt of fans, but also the police, happened, the post-festum is going around the houses and bringing in hundreds of people to determine the culprit, and then it's pointless. You can't accuse potentials I don't know how many thousands or hundreds of participants that they did and that. Of course, there are cameras and your services and faces that are not only in uniforms, but also inspectors in civilians who are following it all, but they are very big missed and what they say, just now, General Delic, everyone has to do their job and they're all paid for it. And these people aren't paid, they paid travel tickets and they organized themselves and then the club should pay because they're not all accounted for. It can be widely interpreted and I don't want to throw out, exactly, a complete mockery of this member who's funny, but someone can stay with relatives and friends, go to a game in some town and stay in it, and then how the club can affect it, that they get back organized or they turn to the other side and go to Thessaloniki, go to Athens, and then they have an appointment to stay at sea for two or three days, they want people and they pay everything, the club has nothing to do with it. You know, if that could be the case, this member could only stay if strictly clubs were involved in it from the beginning to the end, to pay and arrange, to have a list of passengers and guides on buses, to know when to go and to have a set watch. This is completely pointless, because it violates the rights and freedoms of the Constitution of the people, or the citizens of our country, that they move freely. You tell them, like they're going to the ghetto, yeah, yeah, go ahead, you come to the game, and now you all come back. You can't survive this, Mr. Minister, because that's not how public order and peace are kept, and that's how you can't affect people's movements. That is why it is best that you accept this amendment and that you should make a correction, as in Mr. Vukelic's amendment and solve this problem, and that tomorrow the clubs have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6450	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then from Momir Markovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6451	Mr. Albianic, in order to prove the senselessness of this law, I need to have a conversation on behalf of the legislator, and I appreciate Mr. Jocic recording these things, but we need clarifications. Mr. Jocic, yesterday was a tennis match in the arena. Under this law, whoever was in the arena would have to go to jail. For those who weren't, I couldn't guarantee it, but that's you from the Resistance probably, you've already been recorded in the script, that's your problem. Why? Because, besides the jokes and hats and the uniforms and the one over there was our flag, so two players dared to put the flag on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6452	Here you go, Mr. Crassy, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6453	I don't know why you have a problem with the flag, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6454	It's just a matter of work to bother me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6455	The Serbian flag doesn't need to bother you. By law, you must love her, regardless of your taste. Whatever the taste, you have to love the flag that's above your head, and I'm surprised you're complaining about it. A scarf, a hat, a uniform, a flag, especially if it's larger dimensions. And who's authorized to assess whether that's the right dimension? The Witch Guard, which was there, I don't know. We have a situation like this, and last night we were able to watch volleyballs that beat 3:2. Let me draw your attention, Mr. Jocic. There, the official speaker, for two seconds before serving our volleyball, told Belgium, Belgium, to give them a little initiative - fans. They're like that, the Belgians, dead, caught a flag, and they're waving flags. What's the point of this law? Under this law, you do not commit a crime or offence, if you wear a hat, scarf or uniforms that read "Samsung", choose some other companies, "Bet and win", you can also "Next", you can also wear "water-water," anything, but if you put Serbia on, it will be dangerous. Explain to me, does that mean when some fans come from abroad, because of an international league or an international meeting, and when they say the name of their country, will you arrest them. Explain to me, big Democrats, isn't it a great insult to the ears of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is contained in this law, if you sing Marseilles. Do you know what's in the text of the Marseilles? "Blood streams" etc. There is no difference between that: kill, slaughter, that there is no Ustasha. The difference is this has become an official anthem, and this over here is inappropriate. Mr. Jocic, explain to us, because this isn't a physical culture, is this business? There's a lot of money going around here, in the estrada, in this, in parties, in video games, billions and billions of them spinning. Why? Because some psyche of people needs to be satisfied, new colosseums are needed, new victims need blood. It is pushed by citizens to get out of some lethargy and not to pay attention to the two Kostunica-Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6456	Time, Mr. Crassus, and keep an eye on the hard words, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6457	I report to you on the basis of Article 226, Mr. Minister, it is the same case with the passport form, you said that according to the State Administration Act, your discretionary right is, so let me refer to what the esteemed colleague Krasic was talking about, who is going to assess the size of the transparency and the flag. Could our tennis players really have been punished yesterday for not being such a size and whether it's normal for you, and that's what the people of the director's service will tell you, the gendarmes will tell you, the people on the ground, that fans have to hide and wind up the Serbian tromboke, or, say, the flag of the SRS, which often appears in the hall "Pionir" and on our sports manifestations, when people scandal the Dukes of Seselj and when they scandal other Serbian heroes, and now they have to hide and keep it out of sight, and I don't know what to do, and that's the mark of a country, it's a flag, or political parties that over a million citizens vote for. It's not abuse of a political gathering. People are coming in, someone is going to run, but most of all they're all Scandicating and welcoming, and they say, "We'll defend the General from The Hague tribunal" and other national shouts, which they have in the brightest tradition and in our spirit, as the Chetnic songs sing, as other Serbian songs sing. At the games of our biggest clubs, again Mr. Tomic is here and he knows it, they know they're singing songs that apply right to the invitation to chivalrous cheerleading. No one comes in there and priors to make some kind of incident. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you, and that's what I'm going to end up with, that's what you're obliged to tell people who are watching this transmission, because we're waiting for the successes of our teams, that same flag could have been found in the Belgrade arena yesterday, so-called. "Walker," which is a dimension, approximately, 30 hours 35 meters. It can be a Serbian trio, which can be across one side of the stands, and all of us who come to a sports match are involved in the development, in this choreography, which in the best way can be designed when the team plays, some football or basketball club, we are all participants. It happened to me, and to each and every one of you, when we played games so far qualified by our football team, that we were in the stadium, no matter where we are, whether on the west or the east side, in the south or the north, but usually on these two sides, waiting for a chart of red or blue or white. It's all very well written there, they've still come up with it, given the fact that many people didn't know the words of the anthem "God of Justice," so they wrote the lyrics of the anthem. Then you have a chart, which belongs to you, red, blue or white, and it says to you that at that moment you have to pick up the chart and you are still enabled, if you don't know the text of the anthem, and little children come, I saw with my eyes at all these qualified games, by a few of them, young men, girls, young couples, come with all their heart to cheer for our team. We now need to disable it, ban it and say it can be a flag and those dimensions, and the rest cannot be entered. It's really funny and it doesn't exist anywhere. Tell me in which country in the world it exists, that you cannot develop the national flag and flag of the club. That, too, Mr. Tomic knows, you have these big flags that say "Alcatraz", "Strah", "Ofanzi", they're no threat, they're cheerleader groups that are so called, and they're proud, and each of them competes to have as much beauty as possible, they invest money in both material and quality, and they usually have some positive message. It's not a problem at all, it's the fact that the service is being organized, that in time, that the directors are ready for such a job, and everything is going to be okay. That's why you don't have to, Mr. Minister, prohibit the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6458	The word has the interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6459	I would like to say that the amendment of the Defence and Security Committee to Article 3(2) shall be accepted. As far as the larger dimensions are concerned, we are witnessing that the flags of 70 h 50 meters, 50 h 30 meters are being brought, so that under these flags the police cannot control what is going on. Also, when entering this amount of material, textiles, inside these flags can hide torches, sticks and anything that can be used in riots. Of course, we've adopted that, in addition to these markings of the club, there will be a flag and flags can be introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6460	Thank you, Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6461	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what the Minister has just said is something that, Mr. Minister, is not true at all, because in practice it is not. What do you mean, if someone brings a flag, they'll have a torch, so I guess it's being searched...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6462	Mr. Seculic, use your right to replicate, and you have no right to do so by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6463	... Notice; Mr. Krasic said nicely, so I answered, I was on the Security Committee, Mr. Todorovic was, I think Mr. Mamula gave this amendment to make amends and now to add a flag with what it says – to disable the entry into a sports facility and to highlight the cheerleading symbols that are larger dimensions and can interfere with the work of official persons, except jokes, hats and uniforms with the marking of the club and now the flag has been added. That's when I told the board that it was not defined at all what the flag was and what Mr. Krasic said, it's the right thing to do. The flags in practice, what Mr. Minister said, are literally between three and 50 meters of the flag, which they can't be, and they're said to have no so-called. A pole. These are flags with markings, said Miss Natasa Jovanovic, markings of fan groups. Cheerleading groups are members of the club. They don't have to have coat of arms on the cheerleading flag and the cheerleading group doesn't have to have club coat of arms. So what are you going to say if he shows up, here's Alcatraz or Penguin Boysey "Ofk Belgrade" so we don't just force "Partizan" and "Star", here at "Zemun" "Taurunum Boys," how you're going to do when there's no "Zemuna" in there. Now you can declare that it's something that's not appropriate for this. Secondly, behind those big flags, Mr. Minister, you say the torches and this are going to be in, so how come you're admitting to yourself that the director's office and the ones that have to do the job is not doing a good job. An example of Italy, the Sports Commission, but when I told Italy, Italy is a country where they invest a lot in sports and football and they're full of stadiums, and this law, if you want to make only you and your elite watch the VIP games and there are no viewers at all, then there will be peace, it's something else. In Italy to enter with a big flag of fans' leaders comes to a club and sports inspection, a football inspection assesses whether it's right and whether it offends someone, or what kind of message is on the flag. What's left, sir, you said about the flags, what's going to happen, and the uniforms say, you know that fans have their hoods with their fan group logo. What? We won't be able to get in?- I'm sorry. I'll give you an example of why this rigid law is. Remember, here's Mr. Albianic was our captain at this game with Russia, and then Mr. Ceda Jovanovic said - you better chase them to sign the agreement than you were chasing them after the ball. Mr. Jovanovic, if they were Americans, we'd have arrived at them and we'd have broken them up in a second, like this in football, but the Russians were Russians, four representatives brought in, played men football, and we couldn't have made any better resistance. And, as we played, as coach Kosanovic was, and right after that, "Star" fell out of the qualifications, we were really trying. I'll tell you why I mentioned it...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6464	Mr. Seculic, you have abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6465	Just a second and it's over. I apostrophed that game, you know why? It was published in the media that there was going to be a game, it was really a sporting event, a nice event on Marakana, with anthem intonation, flags and representative uniforms. But you know what the point is, we're all witnesses, it's forbidden for viewers to enter the stadium, even though the viewers were outside the stadium, to insist on Mr. Alexander Vukic, when he said – if the viewers don't let themselves go, we're not going to play, all of us as friends, friends, sports buddies, agreed not to play without an audience. Well, then, there was no need to avoid fans at that game. What, did anyone think there was going to be some kind of transparency? Here, I'm done with the sentence, what happens when our fans bring it, which I would bring and I would be with that transparency, "Kosovo's Heart is Serbia"? What's going to happen? Maybe somebody's gonna arrest us all over the stadium. Is that gonna cause a national insult or something? Let me tell you, when the big game was played and they wanted to avoid having viewers, but to the insistence of Mr. Vukic and all of us, the viewers came in, but tragically it was that only 50 of them missed 500 waiting outside the stadium. What were they afraid of, the Russians, that there might be an incident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6466	Mr. Sekuliæ, you have abused the Rules of Procedure, without a basis you have used a pay phone for the last three minutes. Please, let's really stick to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6467	My colleague Markovic, I'm sorry, but I was looking for a replica, and I recognized myself in the minister's speech. Okay, Mr. Albian, you can now give your free interpretation. [[President: You had no rights to replica.]] I say yes, you say I'm not, and it's okay. I now report to the Rules of Procedure, again I call on Article 226 and I ask you a question, Mr Jocic, how can you be contradictory, when you were just talking about flag dimensions, then you yourself, as our people would say, jump into your mouth, because you are in Articles 2 and 16, respectively, and in Articles 16, and 16. The law you obliged these cheerleading groups to co-operate with the clubs in preparation and to encourage positive cheerleading. Well, you didn't think, Mr. Jocic, that someone comes in with a 30h35m flag, it usually has a Serbian tricolor or the color of a club that these people are rooting for, that they put it in some bag and came in, where tens of thousands of people come in, say, "Good afternoon, we've come in, here's a bag and there's a flag inside." First, that flag, that banner, is something that costs a lot, I just told you. In the context of organising such a event, to make it better, to make it look pompous, to make it look nice, so that cameras can take pictures of people coming, just as a member of the Law that you prescribed, at point 1) of Article 16, which says that clubs encourage them to affirm the club and to cheer, they do, they come and apply. They get there, you know who's head of security at the stadium, before they come to someone from the club, they agree, all of this is well known by Mr. Tomic, your colleague and associate. Well, you're pleased, which is why I'm mentioning you, because you're smiling because you know it's true. Then they log in nicely and say – we intend that at one point when it falls down naked or at the very beginning we make one event, to develop our banner and to do so. No one's coming in, and if he brought the bag, it's naive to say "incompetent directors," "incompetent police," and they put torches and poles in it. That's really amazing. So, all this needs to be allowed, but with the strict control of the directors, the directorial services at the stadium and, of course, with the participation of the club, or our Football Federation. It happens very often, in fact almost always, here's what I just told you with the charts, but it might come to mind or the idea would be FSS, it used to be the case, if they did it. So when our team is visiting abroad, there's also this big flag, or transparency. You should think about it, it's not too late, Mr. Jocic, to still change it, because that's why you're going to poverty in that aesthetic sense a sports event and an event. Then it won't look like that anymore. So, everyone's goal is to compete with teams and clubs all over the world, what that choreography is going to look like. As it is on your party's myths. Our party banners are the most beautiful, the coat of arms of the SRS and the character of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, when it develops to 30, 40, 50,000 people, so that's fantastic. But you've got those parties of yours, too, and you're paying these of yours to wave, and you're taking them with you because they don't want to do it with their hearts like the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6468	MP Momir Markovic on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6469	Here, finally, about 45 minutes after my first call to the chairman, I have arrived to defend the amendment of MP Slavo Topalovic. Mr. Minister, when something humpy is done, and such a law is made at the beginning, it is hardly possible to correct and amend it, and a proposal to amend and supplement the law and everything else. National MP Slavisa Topalovic wants to be deleted in Article 16(2). Article 16, this is a member of the 4th bill, the words "in sports" are replaced by the words 'and leaving the sports event'. As I understand this Article 16, that is, this Article 4 on amending and supplementing the Law, police regulate the arrival of a sports event, detention at a sports event and leaving the sports event. You said everything, but like I said, when the law of the hump was hard to fix, you didn't say how long. Is coming to a sports event 5 km to the sports field, is it 110 km to Paracino, or Batocina, is it 210 km to Alexinca, where you will control fans who are coming and going. Second of all, he has to come by at a certain time to watch the game, and he can come by the other day and stop by his friend's house. How are you going to control him? He can leave here, then come in a week later. Maybe it would be good for the government to make an amendment and say, "All Nis fans of Nis so the police will be driving to the sports court after the game from the sports fields." That's why I think Mr. Topalovic's amendment should be accepted. By the time I've heard from you, I'm asking the chairman to stop my time now because I have a few parliamentary questions. It is time for an amendment to be used by an SRS MP. I received an answer from Mr. Minister to the parliamentary question I asked before my vacation. It is related to the "Trizon Group", i.e. Trifunovic Zorana and Papoulin Borislava. I asked to be explained whether criminal charges were initiated and what measures were taken against these two, as well as against the commercial director of NIS "The New Sad refinery" and the responsible person at the "New Sad Refinery" named Balac. Serbian citizens at NIS provided me with some information. I got an answer that against these two, however, "Trizon" went to the bathroom, from the trial, and came out nicely to the door of the court in Novi Sad, and since then the police haven't seen him. If they didn't have an APB on him, they probably wouldn't recognize him. For this other person, I don't know what's wrong with him, and I remind you, that's the 'Trizon' that has damaged the NIS, or the state of Serbia, for 27m euros in time. I got a request from NIS employees to ask a few more questions. I ask the service to schedule which of the ministers the issue will be referred to. He says, "Dear sir, we're coming to you in accordance with the conversation. The situation in the NIS is not as the media shows, but the result of the business is being set up, so that the other directors remain. There is organized crime in NIS, and directors are professional mobsters." I guess they're best known to those who work with them. "Call NIS Director Bosnjakovic, and ask him the following questions... "I am asking the Minister of Energy, because I have no intention of being a postman to Bosnjakovic, so the Minister of Energy will ask Bosnjakovic these questions, and then answer me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I am a national MP. "What's the structure of getting about six billion dinars? Course differences are three and a half billion and two and a half billionths of the four billion on an annual basis, which remains when domestic oil is recognised at $22 and on the world market is about $70. '"What's the point? He says NIS has about 6 billion profits. Not only is domestic oil produced in Serbia, but it is also domestic oil produced from our wells, Africa, Angola, Congo. Everything is treated like domestic oil. That domestic oil goes 22 bucks a barrel, at a time when oil is on the world market $70 per barrel. Then those 50 dollars count as profits and they think "we're a successful company" etc. It's about 700,000 tons of domestic oil. Secondly, at what price does NIS import mammut, because about 100,000 tonnes are imported? Let me tell you, 40% is more expensive than a homemade mule. The third question, at what cost does NIS export lube and other derivatives? It's 40% cheaper than the world's price. At what price does NIS sell the lube "MK Komercu", i.e. Miodrag Kostić for sugars, now "Sunoko"? There's a special story I'd have to tell the MPs. Excess mules were created in "Rafinery" in a magical way and need to be stored. Sugars are preparing for the campaign and their lube tanks are empty. Instead, as good hosts, the NIS directors sell that mule to sugars, more specifically to Miki Kostic, the Sunoko firm, to prepare for the campaign, they send a mule to a warehouse in the Sunoko reservoirs. It lasts four months and is paid to the company "Sunoko" deck for that mule in those tanks, and when the campaign comes, the company "Sunoko" spends that mule and pays it to the NIS reduced by the price of the deck, i.e. storage. (President: Mr. Markovic, time is up. I have ten questions, count five minutes for each question. I know you care very much that Serbian citizens do not know which mobsters are surrounding this government and how they are doing business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6470	Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6471	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6472	Mr. Markovic, you must step away from the pay phone. You'll have to go to your seat, and you'll have to sit down and answer. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has the interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic, so Mr Zoran Krasic, and Mr Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6473	You were responsible on June 18th 2007, i.e. the answer came from the MUP, and we gave the information that police officers of the MUP to the municipal public prosecutor in Novi Sad, against the owner and responsible person of the business "Trizon-group" Belgrade, Trifunović Zoran and an independent export reference to Papoulin Borislav, submitted two criminal charges. You asked a question and I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6474	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6475	Mr. Albianic, Article 136. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. What's this about? Here we have the Law where the MUP becomes the alpha and omega of Serbia's top sport. So it's not the sports regulations, the rules of competition, etc., but it's a specific situation that our sport needs to make a cartoon of the Champions League, something impersonal, so in some version, when our team plays, then we're going to listen to the Champions League greeting song, of course, there's going to be a commercial for 'Plasma' TVs, for 'Ford' etc. It is the best – faceless and then there are no national and national symbols and everything is dedicated to the top sport behind which crime is hidden, big money. So we're talking about this area, we're not talking about physical culture, we're not talking about a healthy body, there's a healthy spirit, but we're talking about there's a lot of money in a healthy body, because these people are being sold, resold, like slaves, and there's some special interest in the state. He especially comes to terms when national symbols are to appear, allegedly, we beat someone and that's very significant. A completely missed law. In order to contain the unrest anywhere, you know how to do it, you know who's in charge, you know what to apply. But there's something specific here. Why? Because the frog saw the horses soaring somewhere, so she decided to lift both legs, to shoe, that she might look a bit like a horse. It's a completely unnecessary law. I made you an introduction to how this law happened. Of course, viewers of every sports event when they see a mess, they, by the logic of things, call the state, call the authorities, condemn one such behavior, and people don't sin, but they don't know that all these phenomena are the result of a great manipulation behind which some parts of the state and some stakeholders stand. So we have someone who's unhappy, so he says, "You fans are going to tear down the management of this club, so if you have to, there's going to be a fight and everything and everything." That Minister Jocic can handle it nicely, catch up with the three men who had a fight and say, "Stop it more." I put my people in your ranks and tell me what caused it all. Did I make a mistake? I did? Mr. Tomic, you should know one thing, the only State Security report I would raise my hand for if it were correct and containing complete information about their work, is that report where you would inform me that there is no drugs on the streets of the Republic of Serbia. As long as there's drugs, they're dealing drugs, they're dealing BIA. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. How come every time I mention BIA, the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6476	National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Zdravko Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6477	Let's pick up where we left off. What's the quality of imported crude oil? It is Syrian oil "Syrian Blind", "JANAF", a former Yugoslav oil pipeline that we from Serbia have funded, and now it is exploited by Croats. But what you're going to do, that's how it breaks down, informs NIS that, because of imports of Syrian oil that are far worse, the consequences of both states and partners will suffer, and even if the adverse consequences for other countries in the environment, which are used by JANAF services, will be responsible for NIS. Ladies and gentlemen, this is proof as much as it is rapidly destroying NIS, in order to bring its price down, and so that tomorrow one of these tycoons, who are supporters, strikers, Serbian Government, can buy it for cheap money. Next question: who are the third person to perform a service processing at NIS and do they pay for processing? Now let me show you one piece of paper that says that only this "Trizon", a little bit of mention, is owed to NIS 63 million and 148 grand for service processing and three million interest, and then Petrochemical, then AD Oil, then Petroart, then Hippo, then Jugoktan, NIS oil, etc., which is a billion and 200 million dinars. I ask, how many board presidents and directors of NIS spend on donations, sports clubs and political parties, a team? Let me inform you it's not millions, it's not tens of millions, it's not hundreds of millions, it's billions. Also, I'm asking a question, how much is NIS credited individually with banks? And to that question hardly will anyone be able to answer that, because they hide fat, just as Mr. Krasic just said, like a snake's feet. Next question, did the police find out who stole more than 200,000 gallons of petrol from the installations and poured as much water for New Year's holidays? The paper said "Politics," I think. Police haven't given an answer in over two and a half months. (President: Time.) Here, I'm done, she didn't give up after two and a half months. Of course, she couldn't get the data. First, this data was hidden, that it was stolen gas and that water was inserted. Who can get into the installations to drain the gas and pour water? Two hundred thousand, that's 200 tons, and that's 20 tanks, ladies and gentlemen, that can't be carried out in your pocket. The police came up with information that it was done. There are thieves inside, starting with Bošnjakovic and beyond. I expect that the police will at least show here, as she has always shown, a good will to finish the job, not to praise Bosnjakovic more, but to find himself there, because now the election of the new director of "The Oil Industry of Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6478	The word is by MP Zdravko Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6479	Mr. Albianic, these are members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, one question for you. What's going on with the investigation of Mr. Danilovic who, in fact, broke the law? Because we talk about fans here all the time, not management of clubs that DSS and DSS went into. What happened to the attack on official officials at the match in Vrsac? We're always talking about fans here, and your debate is going that way, in fact, you're literally building a trench between fans and police. Fans and police are supposed to cooperate. I heard from you today, from this speaker, that you were not involved in the adoption of this law in 2003. But now you could suggest much more quality amendments, to remove significant differences in cooperation between fans and police. In fact, there is another very dangerous situation here, which has not been removed, for the safety of the participants, in fact, fans, at sports events, this is Article 15(2), which refers to appropriate fences to prevent viewers from entering the sports field. I would remind you of the unloved events and accidents at the sports stadiums of the type "Hassel" and the Liverpool Stadium 20 years ago, when UEFA ordered all the organizers of the big football events to get these fences safely adapted to the fans. It is evident that this law and amendments, unfortunately, have been written by people who have never been to sports courts or games. I will also remind you of this Article 4 which has been discussed, for the transparency, that at every international game of the Barcelona football club, you can see a great transparency across an entire tribune, written in English that Catalonia is not Spain and is not considered offensive. I'll remind you of similar events when he plays Atletik-Bilbao, meaning the Basque Clubs and that this amendment by my colleague Slavija Topalović should be accepted, I wanted to tell you. You know for yourself that sports federations or UEFA confederations or FIFAs prescribe that guest teams should get 10% tickets for their fans. Here's an example. In the FK region, "Partizan" is politically punished, which we must stress. It should be said that not one large group of fans came from Belgrade, that a lot of fans came from Republika Srpska. So the club can't be responsible for the behavior of fans who come unorganized at the game. The second thing, you know it's impossible for a thousand Partizana fans to cause a riot against 10,000 Zrinjski fans. (President: Time.) ) It seems that the only motive and what I am afraid of, I end up, thank you, is to push through these members concerning transparents, insults and hate, and to ban the scandal of the names of the current Hague indictees and Serbian heroes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6480	The amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Radoslav Jevremovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Radoslav Jevremovic. You'll get your word right after the speaker. You cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure, so that the same MP will appear immediately behind you at the same time. Here you go. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, the amendment reads - Article 5 is deleted. I propose that Article 5 be deleted because the solution in the basic law is sufficient and comprehensive. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I, as chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, must inform the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia that this bill did not go through the Youth and Sports Committee, although it was necessary. The Youth and Sports Committee has been scheduled twice, meaning 10 September 2007 at 13:00 and 17 September 2007 at 1400 hours. But the ruling coalition failed to provide the necessary quorum for no session of the Committee, so that the Committee was not held and the bill was not discussed. The law on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events came into force in July 2003, and it is obvious that this law was not applied in the way it should have been applied, and in cases where it was applied it was selective. I will now quote you from FK 'Partizan', which is addressed to the president of PSS Zvezdan Terzić; he says: 'Four years ago, the Serbian Parliament adopted the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events and since in the past, the behaviour of viewers in sports arenas in Serbia has not only not been improved, but has been dramatically worsened, we must agree that the competent state authorities of the mentioned Law do not apply or do not apply it equally consistently to all offenders. By law itself, it was tried to create a decent theatre atmosphere, by reputation and example in England, on sports grounds. But it's obvious that it didn't work out. There are 13 to 14 cameras in the stadiums in England, each covering one segment of the stands, and the police know exactly who's to blame. That's not the case with us. The police are arresting whoever arrives, and even the people who weren't at the sports event, who happened to be here, are being arrested. The police are taking action, picking up the first 10 to 15 people, they don't care if they're guilty or not, and at the station, they'll explain who's guilty and who's not. This is how the law applies to us. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the situation on sports grounds and performances is a real reflection of the situation in society. And you from the ruling coalition are responsible for that condition. On June 15, 2006, from the source, your B92 TV shows that there was a conflict between fans and police at the Partizan-Red Star basketball game. Minister of the then and present, Dragan Jocic, rejected claims that police had used excessive force, although the fence in the hall broke under the pressure of the savvy fans, although a number of people fell from a height of four metres, and police continued beating fans. The situation calmed down only after the Red Star player's intervention. After the match, the DS also announced with the following statement: ''DS considers the unfavorable events to be another reason for Interior Minister Dragan Jocic to resign. ''The text further states, this party reminded, while it played a leading role in the Serbian government, that it was brought forward modern, European law on the prevention of violence and misbehavior on sports grounds, which is not applied. If the Law had been implemented in sports events, there would have been no incidents, the wrongdoers would have come under the influence of the law long ago and not come to the games. In this way, sports grounds in Serbia are not places where citizens are safe and come only because of the sport game. This statement shows everything about you from the yellow company. What changed in the work of the former, or current minister, Dragan Jocic, so you voted for him to continue to be the police minister? Nothing's changed. The Minister's work remained the same, it's flat zero. But you've fulfilled your wishes, you've got chairs, you've hired relatives, you've hired friends, so you can put up with someone whose resignation you've asked for before. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Deputy Chief of Police Slobodan Lukovic, stressed that the courts should do most of the work, but the proceedings are paved in place due to the slowness of the courts. This is all telling us that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Police are doing their job properly. With these amendments to the law, you're trying to even the torches on sports grounds with rapes, fighting on sports courts with drug trafficking, and the fans with murderers themselves. You expect to do something good with these amendments to the Law, that there will be no more riots on sports grounds, but you will have such an effect that people will not even come to sports events and events anymore. The question is, why would anyone go to a sports game when there's a possibility that only for a certain time if they find themselves in a group of people who make riots can they get a prison sentence of up to eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6482	The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by the MP of the SRS, Radoslav Jevremovic, to Article 5, should be supported as well as all amendments by the SRS MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. This bill of law is bad for you. You still have time to pull him out, because all of this is being settled in accordance with the Law on Public Order and Peace and Citizens' Gathering. I don't know who persuaded Minister Jocic to be the author of this law when he was supposed to be Minister of Sports here. Here we were supposed to discuss amendments to the Law on Sports, so that in these changes we had something that was most important for our children's and grandchildren' health, that from the first grade in basic schools of physical education classes the professors of the DIF and twice a week, then we wouldn't have our children with a sick spine, a wrong spine, flat tables and others. If we had a bill like this where the professors of the DIF have been handing over from the first grade of gym class, we'd have different sections in our elementary schools. We don't have them now. You know, in the last 15 years, we haven't had a single primary school section of basketball, handball, volleyball, karate, boxing, so I don't count the other sections. And now there's a lot of recreationals in our schools. All of this could have been solved by this law on sports, and after this proposal for a law on sports, surely we would have more talent in our sport. When children from seven to 12 have all this solved, then we would have the greatest talents, and we would have our sport back where it belongs. Mr. Minister, when you bring these amendments and the additions to the law, then you must have examples of why this is being brought. Here is the only truth and true truth that these amendments and additions to the law were passed after the game Partizan – Zrinski. That's what UEFA did to you. This is the first example that one football club in two matches wins 11-1 and doesn't move on to the UEFA Cup. This is where everything was pre-arranged between UEFA and Zrinjski's leadership. Five days in advance it was known that the order to bring rocks with stones into the stadium under the White Coast, when all this was done and when the game began, after 15 minutes the Zrinjski fans began throwing stones at the Partizana fans. What happened? The militia, by order, takes action and beats the 'Partizana' fans. Here in the debate I heard, said some MPs, that we should look up to some countries in Europe, such as England, Germany, Italy. I'm asking you, why do we need to look up to each other or our fans to those countries? When they play the English team and their clubs in Europe, the German clubs in Europe, you know what happens after these games? The real wasteland is in those cities. What are those fans doing? Have some other countries changed their laws after these incidents? No, they're not. This is one of the freshest examples that you from the ruling coalition won't remember, and perhaps you don't know, you probably don't know, the League of Champions, Roma – Dinamo Kiev, September 15, 2004, Judge Fisk, hit in the head, cut in the head, cut in the head, all bloody judge! You know what the punishment is? Two games playing "Rome" in front of empty stands. Would "Star" and "Partizan" get the same punishment? No, you wouldn't. Ten years of ban, even before The Hague tribunal and genocide proceedings. I guarantee you that. Did the Fubola Alliance, headed by Zvezdan Terzic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, protect the 'Partizan'? No, I don't. I'm not partisan, let me tell you right now. These are just facts. Let's go back earlier, on May 29, 1985, to the finals of the Cup of Champions, Juventus Liverpool. What happened at the stadium - 39 dead, 400 injured! Did anyone change the law of those states? No, I don't. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I'd like to ask you if you remember a tennis tournament in Hamburg, Monica Selesh and Magdalen Maleev, April 30, 1993, what happened? In comes a passionate fan, Stefi Graf, inflicting a knife on Monica Selesh! And Monica Selesh was then at the height of her form, she was the best, she was supposed to be number one bearer of the list. After that, Monica Selesh hasn't been back in the field in two years. Her career's over, she's not back. You know what happened to the attacker? He wasn't even convicted. He was punished for two years on condition of treatment after being declared a mental patient. These are just some of the examples of what's going on in the world without these countries changing their laws. We are all against misbehaving and violence on sports grounds, but it is not resolved by these amendments and additions to the Law, it is resolved, as I said, by the Law of Public Order and Peace. We here have to wonder what the consequences of our fans' behavior are, mostly at football and basketball games. It's the only basic thing, gentlemen, when you came to power after October 5th, you imagined that you invented both sports and music and culture. Before you were both sports and all the other things I said. Am I right? I'll tell you some facts. We are the only country in the world in which our former Secretary General Branko Bulatovic was killed, so you can't remember. After training, in December 2000, basketball player Haris Brkic was killed. Why? Did anyone wonder why that guy was killed? None of you have thought of it, you don't know it, you've forgotten it all, because it's none of your business. What's the problem here? In all the alliances, all the clubs in Serbia were involved by you from the DS, from G17 Plus and DSS. Not to mention the last example, the basketball league and what happened to our basketball team. You brought Capici here, like he invented basketball. Is there anyone else before Capico? You forgot Simonovic, he doesn't suit you because he's much smarter, he knew more than Kapičić and he'll probably do better than him and the basketball alliance and the team, but you don't like anything, you want to put your people on. What did you do with the Handball Alliance when you brought Micovic in? You've mutilated the handball. You brought Micovic, he brought his friend Vujovic as a selector by order. You put together a team as well as you. Look what's going on in the last case. Do you know who's in the ski alliance? President G17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkic, Vice-President Goran Pitic - DS, the Executive Board are members of Saša Vitosevic - G17 Plus and Sinisa Nikolic - DS. What does this tell us? Do you take full sport in Serbia? Don't be surprised, gentlemen, that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the paper said Dinkic was driving a slalom or a giant slalom for the former Yugoslavia, he performed in that team with Bojan Krizaj one 85 times. Anything here is possible. What happened when you came to power after October 5th? Did one of the DOS officials suddenly fall in love with the cavalry sport? He got a present and horses. Do you know when he took a picture between those two horses that he wrote in the back of the picture? This is me in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6484	Please watch your time. Is anyone from any other parliamentary groups reporting for an amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6485	Mr Albianic, on the application of the Rules of Procedure, you should pay a little more attention, this is how you very selectively apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6486	Mr. Krasic, I'll give you your time back, but I'm asking you and everyone else for collegiation, so that we have some order, a notice on the amendment, so the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6487	Yeah, right. Here, we're holding half an hour with the Rules of Procedure, but what's it worth when you don't see it? Of course, 136, 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure. We need a representative of the promoters to explain some details, since during today's debate we have seen this has nothing to do with physical culture, that this has nothing to do with the wings "healthy body healthy spirit", but in the "healthy body of dirty money", not the one who is a sportsman, but the one who finances that sports club. Otherwise, I don't mind, since all human abilities can be on the market, so why not be virtuosity, skill, the talent of someone to engage in sports, to be on a market. And it's supposed to be on the market, let people make money, because they've made so many good times that they've given the viewers about their virtuosity. I'd just draw attention, Mr. Jocic, that with a law like this, you go so far as to change the rules of what a theater is, and what a sports field is, I'm surprised that you didn't get into what an 'ofside', what a 'councher', what a 'penal', probably in that sense, and you're thinking of doing the next change of this law, that it would be all right and how it could be prescribed. Doesn't it seem to you that this article, the amendment we're talking about today on Article 5, is an opportunity to commit abuse. What's this about? If a representative of the ministry is in charge of some sort of encounter, a fan of a sports team who is a guest team, can use this authority and ban the game and give guests victory. Seems strange to you, you haven't paid attention. The last position of that Article 17, following this change, reads as follows: ''If the organisation of sports events does not act according to the Ministry's orders, and due to observed shortcomings to a significant extent, the safety of participants in the sports event may be compromised, the Ministry may prohibit the holding of a sports event. ''So, the minister can affect the looks of our league, who's going to be first, who's going to turn out, because, you've seen for yourself, this attitude is everything – if, if, if it is evaluated, it's concluded, it's noticed, it's established or there's some probability or some doubt. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking for one simple reason why I want to make some continuity since the first announcement where I explained why this law was passed in 2003. What's the point? That we'll be rooting for a sponsor in the future, not our own clubs. The point is, now there's a sport in those waters where simply, the team has to win and there's no chivalrous. It was just someone cheating on us when he was talking - it was a knight's fight, it was that, it was that. A knight's fight can be in boxing, it can be in this second, as you say, dirty sports, but during those meetings, there's never been an incident, that's what I have to tell you. Ring, it's raining blood all over the place, there's two guys fighting in the ring, the audience cheers, it's Scanning, but there's no conflict between the audiences. Then we have one, come on any, some encounter, we'll take that football, blood to the knees at the football game. What's the reason? What's causing all this? This law is not about cause, this law is trying to tell us that anyone who goes to a football game or a high-risk game, etc. It is a pathological case, because, under the provisions of this law, it's his fault as soon as he's there. That's why it seems a little weird at the beginning of what I said. This law says - viewers, don't go to the game. Why? You're all charged, a suspect, you can always fall under the fact of this law. We don't need that kind of explanation. Of course, no one is in favor of the people in the stadium, the stands and the playgrounds being beaten, the pain being inflicted on someone, the God of injury, etc. But, look, you can't make any Star Fans say they're "grobars" by this law to make the Partisans fans like no Partisan fan can by this law forbid them to say they're "gypsies", because there's this cheerleader's traditional hatred. That's the cheerleading. It's been done so, it's been encouraged for years. Big derby, 150th or I don't know which derby, this, that. Warm climate by journalists, clubs, etc. I hope I get a chance to get back to you one more time. Mr. Jocic, if you haven't solved your property issues in sports, then why this?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6488	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are well-known, as well as the public of Serbia, that during its political action, the SRS has always opposed all kinds of unrest, riots, violence and that there has been no injuries to our demonstrations since the beginning of our political struggle in Serbia. Also, we, in our party organization, have strongly and rigorously anticipated punishment for every type of alcohol use, means disfellowshipping from the party, and we really want to say to these people that we are fighting with all our hearts to combat these phenomena. However, the member to whom I have submitted the amendment is able to be selectively applied, or abused, because of the very nature of this member. He says, "It is forbidden to sell and consume alcoholic beverages in a sports facility and at a distance of up to one km from it in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, and in other places up to 300 m, during a sports event and three hours before and after its completion. ''I will set an example of Belgrade and explain to it why abuse is possible, or selective application of the law in this case. First, it is not clear when it says – one kilometer, or 300 meters. Whether this refers to a distance measured by an air line or a route to a sports facility. Secondly, what is also very important, the current law predicted that there were high-risk manifestations. Now you have a situation that when it comes to some cadet competitions, junior, school, which must also be treated as sports competitions, one kilometer from this facility, all shops, restaurants, gems three hours before, during the competition and three hours later will not be able to sell alcoholic beverages. Second, who's going to form a service? Who will be in charge of informing all these gems, restaurants, shops to hold a sports competition that day and that they must not sell alcohol during that period, and that they will violate the Law. Is it necessary every day for someone to go to the hall of sports or some sports object to ask – good afternoon, is there a competition going on today, when I won't be able to sell alcohol? So people are going to have a lot of trouble. I know in practice it won't be so rigorous, but then we get into a situation where the law doesn't respect itself. Whether someone at the Intercontinental or at the restaurant "Gjorge" located right next to the stadium is going to control every day when some competitions are happening, because it doesn't say here – a high-risk competition. You know what competitions they are, when big groups of fans come, when the police control it. It can also be a simple athletic contest, to be 50 contestants, may not be fans, but the law is applied in that case, because he doesn't say otherwise. My amendment provided that article 18 reads: ''The sale of alcoholic beverages at a sports facility which holds a sports event three hours before and after completion, as well as during the event. ''We believe that this is an appropriate reality, because you all know that those who use alcohol come in such a state to sports competitions, they won't stop at a restaurant or a bar, they'll take out of their environment and their surroundings, buy in some jeweler an alcoholic drink, and by the way they'll bring themselves into that alcoholic state. That's the main problem. By, in fact, disabling the economic functioning of the subjects I'm talking about, I'm saying this for them, as I said at the beginning, we're really against every kind of behavior and action. But we will bring these people, economic operators into a bad position, that we will interfere with their economic activity, which can be used at any time when some kind of competition is under way. I think that's why this is wrong. Speaking of this law, this is one part of which we have looked back, we have considered, speaking of all the shortcomings of sincere desire, that we can help this law to be something that will benefit the citizens of Serbia. We talked about all the shortcomings that apply to and some situations that are inappropriate, in terms of punishment. To punish someone for cheerleading, or leaving such a range, such a possibility that someone will be able to abuse is always harmful. You have a situation, I'm just going to describe one brief example, two more precisely, there were matches between "Star" and "Inter" from Zapresic. Croatian police did not allow the entry of the transparency – "Delije" because it was written in a Cyrillic letter. Then someone said that it would offend someone and not allow them to enter. Also, two days ago, the news passed, almost undetected, through the media. The United Serb teams, represented by Serbian emigrants in Chicago and Adria, represented by Croatian emigrants, and the news came from the media, riots and conflicts between Serbian and Albanian fans. What's the news? The incidents started with "Serbia," "Serbia". So who should the Serbian fans have cheered for at the game between "Serbian United" and "Adrie", were they supposed to yell "Croatia", "Croatia". Let me tell you how the incidents ended, as they say -- a Serbian football player was hit with a bottle in his head. Otherwise, during the incident, Albanian fans, who were created there and who were accidentally provoked at the time by the "Serbia", "Serbia", between the Serbian team and the Croatian team, developed a transparency – "Kosovo is independent" and they scanned it. There was this transparency, it was made by hand, in haste, etc., prepared, of course. But that's not the problem. The problem is that we're running -- "Serbia," "Serbia." What makes me say that? We leave the possibility that someone malicious, at any time at any time, abuses the provisions of this law and may one day be punished for running in the stadium – 'Kosovo is Serbia' or 'I love Serbia'. Or, because it's gonna come in a uniform that says "Serbia" in a Cyrillic letter, so we're gonna have a situation where someone sues him, someone malicious accepts it and punishes him with a high sentence. All this is possible by this law, by the abuse of this law. All of what we've been telling you all these days and what we're telling you today, we're saying because we love our country, because we love Serbia and because we want it to be really good for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6490	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief, so that my fellow Members of the House will leave time to talk about this amendment. This amendment is constitutionally unsustainable, Mr. Minister. The state will have to suffer a great deal of damage from the people who own the STR, the catering facilities, the pub, call them whatever you want, because you per Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot prohibit anyone from working. You have embarked on a provision of violation, not only of the Constitution, but of the Labour Act, which allows everyone to work and act in accordance with the law. How about this lex specialis, where you've determined how many meters it is, or a mile and a half away in other cities outside Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis, to ban the alcohol being poured three hours before and three hours after the sports event ends, or the game, when you know it's impossible and that I don't know what service you have and how many officers and inspectors you're there, you can't get into every bar, every facility. So this is what you write just to write. Secondly, there is no such thing, and you will now tell the people who own the restaurant around the "Partizana" stadium or "Red Star" stadium in Belgrade or "Chica Daca" in Kragujevac, now I will give you an example, the game is held on Sunday, the derby in Belgrade, someone pre-rently rents a restaurant to do the baptism, the wedding, the already famous restaurants around the stadium, of course, those people that day are not interested in the derby that is happening, you will now tell that owner – you must know in advance, look at the calendar year for the first league or for the qualification team, and that day do not negotiate any dinner, no lunch. That's amazing. These people really have the right to sue the state for violating the Constitution and the Labour Act, and how exactly are you going to measure those 1,300 meters? So explain to me, why only in these cities and what's the difference in those 700 meters in another city? Because of the density of the catering facilities or the distance from the stadium? Have Duvnjak tell us where the "Progress" stadium is in Kragujevac and then whether it's logical that it's only 300 meters away, and it's not thousands away from another restaurant. I would have, please, to stop the time here, more questions for Mr. Minister, as MP or according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, but to continue my colleague Stosic on this amendment, i.e. by a member who is unacceptable, because what he wrote was much more meaningful – only within the facility three hours before and after the game. Mr. Minister, what is your knowledge of the event? Your colleague Zdravko spoke of it a moment ago, when it came to the riots in the stadiums, by the DOS regime, particularly the Democratic Party and then the summits after October 5th? Did you ask yourself, did you leave the coalition very quickly, later on, so when you came for the police minister, why a few days after that five-octobar mob coup at the Star-Partizan game, why did the fans come after each other, who was in the interest of it, and why did that happen in the first place? How, then, it is possible for the post-festum of the former police minister, to mention Dusan Mihajlovic, to think about how this area should be regulated by law. Did you get any knowledge as a minister, and that happened in your day, why did an officer who broke the rules of service order in such a beastly way attack on young men and girls at the Pilionir Hall when a game of "Partizan-Star" was played and when the "Partizana" fans went to defend the young people who were then injured? How is it possible that this officer who overstepped his powers, therefore, who didn't assess the situation at the moment and innocent people were killed, that he just got transferred to Lazarec and nothing further?- I'm sorry. This and many other issues in the country's security area and everything that should be contained in the serious Internal Affairs Ministry report we want to ask you, but it's already September 24th, and the Defence and Security Committee has not discussed the report on the work of the MUP and BIA for the first six months of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6492	The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic. The remaining time is one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6493	People's MPs, the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events and its implementation, which is not often the case in Serbia when it comes to laws, and is not a solution to the problem. In fact, this government is trying to deal with the consequences, and the misbehavior of certain fans in sports events stems from the country's poor attitude towards young people. The solution to the problem is not to punish fans, but to deal with the country's essential problems leading to such behaviour. The indelicate behaviour of certain fans is an exhaust valve of young people, which in mass gatherings exhibit their aggression. One of the main causes of these problems is the increase in alcoholism and drug abuse in young people, who have been increasingly present over the past few years. The main culprit for this situation is next to the state and the interior ministry, which are doing nothing to prevent problems. Drug dealers are not arrested but are walking freely, and some of them work as co-workers of police services and collect information about major dealers. It is not remembered when a major confiscation of intoxication was made and one of the major dealers in Serbia was detained. In doing so, I don't mean the border crossings, because that seized drug is mostly in transit through our country. This suggests that the main drug dealers enjoy the protection of certain structures of government, leading to the easy way to doping. Another, no less significant, problem is alcoholism in young people and when you look at research, you will see how reduced the age limit is in children who use alcohol, and the law prohibits children under 18 from selling alcohol and cigarettes. However, both the state and the competent authorities are not responsible, nor is anyone responsible for this. By following these examples, we can only imagine how the state will implement this law on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events. Therefore, it is high time to start dealing with the responsible causes of the problem in Serbia, not their consequences. If you keep this up, I'm afraid the problems will just get bigger. Finally, by accepting this amendment to Nebojja Stefanovic, as well as others who have come from the ranks of the SRS, it will certainly greatly improve this law that is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6494	Is anyone from any other parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6495	Mr. Albianic, you're acting strange again. I warn you that you have a Rules of Procedure ahead of you and that you watch what it says in front of you. When an MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he gets his word. I have to fight for my right, and then you make some faces and I don't know, but makeup isn't an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, especially not provisions that regulate what the president needs to do; that he's making a pair of jokes, and I know that you usually do that when he raises a finger, but be assured, if I change the order of fingers, when I lift a third finger, he'll be rude, and I'm not a rude man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6496	Mr. Krassic, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6497	I'm not wasting my time. You're demonstrating anxiety. The fact that your party president is at the head of the ski alliance doesn't give you the right to soak us all in order today. Come to us, but to the state and the people you've sown and all in order. Mr. Jocic, I'm continuing a serious discussion and you can see that all my reports so far have continuity. I just finished my speech with the word "privatization." Is there something behind this law and all that is presented to us in public, as inappropriate, etc., the increased concern of society and the increased role of the state to intervene, whether something else is hiding and what I'm sure is that this should be some kind of legitimacy for a civilized part of the European Union? I'm telling you, it's no ID. I recognize a message that has been going since 2003 and that is to say -- respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if "Marakana" has its owner, the owner will not allow the breaking of chairs because it affects him and his pocket. Since this is not defined, it can break whoever it wants and create a negative picture of Serbia and Belgrade and Serbs, and it is necessary for the police to sort it out and solve it, but the solutions to all problems will be privatised. Let me tell you something - there was never a problem with ski sports and they never banned the use of alcohol. If they didn't drink, the poor would freeze in the field. It is, but it says in the law -- those people who have nothing to do with their brains. However, I get the impression that some alliances are preparing for privatisation and someone took the Genexa wire. Well, laugh now. Someone's getting ready to buy the Maracana, and we all know when they buy it, there'll be no riots. Why? That's too bad. He gets hit and he's in his pocket. You see, as it's a coalition fact in continuity and as the people's brains are washed and misbehaved, no one in their right mind will support what's going on at some football games, what's enmity, fighting, etc. They heat it up for us, and until it's privatized, here's the Chelsea game, it's all private and fine: 450 million people invested, bought and laundered money. We're not talking about physical culture and a healthy spirit, we're talking about something called "the healthy body finds dirty money" and even dirtier people, and someone's asking for the state to protect dirty money and dirty people and then the marketing chooses, some time it's a flag, some time it's misbehaving, some time it's this, some time it's what it means, Mr. Jocic, all that BIA can solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6498	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6499	I remember football games where the civilian police come in and call a man in line who waits at the entrance and says, "Pero, you know we know who you are and what you are." You're going to be smaller than a masculine grain in this game. And be still, Pera, everyone's following him, everyone's upset and the problem's solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6500	And who's Pera? The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 with an explanation, and in this direction I will try to draw your attention to the provisions that are being proposed and, on the other hand, to the provisions laid down in the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in sports events, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 67/2003. When it comes to the provisions proposed in this article, it is about modifying almost the same content and almost the same facts and almost the same incriminating actions if someone does them. Article 7 shows that the provisions in Chapter 31 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia also provide for sanctions, as well as intended acts, if someone performs any action prescribed by Article 343 at sports events. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2000, the SRS tried to codify criminal legislation in the federal government. To that end, I have formed, as the federal justice minister of the SRJ, one commission and a group of experts, experts from law schools, experts from the MUP, and the Republic and then the Federal, then the Federal Court, the Republic Supreme Court, the Republic Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Prosecutor's Office, and even the district prosecutors and district courts. It was our intention, the ministers of the SRS in the federal government, because the time had come, since our criminal law had been overcome in certain provisions, on the other hand it was not in line with international standards, we wanted to codify criminal and criminal and material law and to have it in one law when it comes to material law, the Criminal Code, and on the other hand, to pass a new criminal code. They used to have the names Criminal Law SRJ, and before that, SFRY was the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was our intention in the federal government to codify everything that is democratic and everything that is today accepted by the international community and international standards, at the level of international standards, we tried to unite criminal legislation so that it could be applied more easily. To that end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to propose any bill in the federal government to go to the government or to the Federal Assembly until I had a project done through the Institute of Comparative Law. I can tell you that the Institute of Comparative Law represents an institution that can help us greatly when proposed and passed certain laws. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I wanted to draw your attention to, and especially when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, believe that our country was then, that in the federal government, we were then preparing a proposal for the most democratic criminal code in Europe. We went even one step ahead of France, England and Germany, especially when we wanted to protect the freedoms and rights of our citizens. If you want to see democracy in one country, look and read their provisions relating to the criminal code, as well as criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 344. The criminal code is normized – which, by rude insult or abuse of another, acts of violence against another, causing a fight or insolent or insolent behaviour, poses a greater threat to the peace of the citizens or tends to disrupt public order and peace. You have one disposition, a brief, clear definition of the norm that can be recognised in any case, can be applied and thus cover everything that represents both a violation and a criminal act when it comes to sports manifestations. For these acts and these actions, the legislator predicts that he will be punished by prison for up to three years. We have a standard. So we've already been prescribed in the Criminal Code. Item 2 as a serious form of criminal responsibility – if the work described in Article 1 has been carried out in the group or when a person has suffered a minor physical injury or there has been a severe humiliation of the citizens, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. An agreement to carry out the crime may, by analogy, logically, apply to both those groups and ringleaders who agree to commit crimes or offences at sports events. "Whoever agrees with the other to commit a certain criminal offence for which five years of imprisonment or more severe punishment can be sentenced, will be fined or jailed for up to one year." So, you only have the agreement prescribed in the Criminal Code, which is a clear, short and defined norm and for application is absolutely excellent. In Article 348. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed – whoever illegally manufactures, sells, purchases, exchanges, carries or holds firearms, ammunition or explosive matter. The bill contains explosive matter, we have explosive matter already in the Criminal Code. ''If the object of the act referred to in Article 1, of this article, firearms, ammunition, explosive matter or substance-based agent, spraying or gas weapons whose manufacture, sale, purchase, exchange, carrying or holding is not permitted, they will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. ''The more serious form of criminal responsibility, the criminal code as it norms, in paragraph 3--'' 'If the subject of the act referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, the greater amount of arms, ammunition or funds, or weapons or other means of great destructive power, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from one to eight years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to go through these examples and point out that we have the norms prescribed in the Criminal Code, and I'm going to say in the end who's to blame for not applying those standards. I wouldn't take the time, I'd just draw attention to the provision of Article 20. In its reasoning on page 2, the Proposer explains why this norm is proposed, and at the same time the Proposer finds and suggests, that it only finds out that the provisions of the proposed norms leave the intention because the case law, as the Proposer says, is the one that will require the determination of the intention of someone who makes any action that is prohibited and prohibited. Ladies and gentlemen, no judge, no judicial council will be allowed to make a decision unless it determines the perpetrator's intention. It must be established. There are crimes that can be done out of indiscretion, crimes that can be done out of conscious indiscretion and crimes that can be committed out of unconscious incessantness. All of this is different, different norms, different uses of the Criminal Code and different forms of criminal liability. This, as my esteemed colleague says, from the scene, MP Krasic, this can only be done with a direct imagination, there is no imagination here. It's well known to me, because I've participated in thousands of security and as a security organizer and a direct participant. , the MUP has a great responsibility to protect public order and peace and to ensure that these sports events are maintained under normal conditions, to ensure the protection of our citizens and those who come to watch games and participate in sports events. Ladies and gentlemen, in the earlier 2003 Law, it was prescribed when it comes to security costs, as noted by the MP general Delic, in the current Law, in Article 19 – Costs of implementing the measures, from 7th to 15th members. Mr. Minister, just a little bit of your attention for one thing, you will now say whether in practice it is possible or not – the organizer can conclude a contract with the Republic of Serbia to perform certain security tasks. I ask you, Mr. Minister, did you have the opportunity to conclude on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and one contract with the organiser to pay the security costs and thus that these funds, as provided for in this article, enter into the budget of the Republic of Serbia? The mistake is here and the lack of law, you'll look at Article 19, it shouldn't have been "can," it's the Home Secretary closing the contract with the organizer. Then you would have greater powers, no alternative to "can" and "no sea", but "must" will conclude a contract with the organizer and determine the cost of security, that these funds go to the Republic's budget. That is why, in this law too, there is a shortage that is valid, at least in this article – Security of Sports Games and other events, certain norms are not exactly accurate. With the logic of the SRS MPs, they interpreted the proposed norms, brought them into contact with the current Law, and secondly, assessed whether it was possible to implement them in practice. What I can say from my life experience is that the M.P. has certain powers when some wrongdoers, especially returnees, come to Maracana or the 'Partizan' stadium and commit a crime or a crime for the second time, and then the police have to react. And the police have powers and have certain resources. One more thing, General Delic asked how many criminal or criminal charges were filed and what happened to those who committed riots. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, until someone is sentenced from 5 to 10 years when a person is deprived of life at a sports game, until certain measures are taken and the means of information is involved we won't be able to deal with those returnees easily. It's not a sin now, it's a random perpetrator of some piece, unauthorized entry into the stadium, but if someone died, like that child from Opov died a few years ago in the stadium, please, it's a dangerous thing. Therefore, according to returnees, police must take certain measures, have the means of coercion and authority, but also, Mr. Minister, conduct one analysis, ask the prosecution and judges why they do not impose adequate sanctions against those against whom the MUP has filed criminal charges, and especially against the returnees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6502	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6503	Mr. Albianic, that means Articles 136 and 226. Mr. Jocicu, some law makes sense if applied, laws are passed to apply, to resolve a social relationship, some rules, etc. I remind you of a newspaper article published on March 21st 2005, he says, "The Jihad in the Second League", a subtitled "The New Market fans at the Niš match Scandicated: This is Turkey, Never Serbia, Kill the Serb, Hashim Thaci", in Nis, Scandicating it. The text was written by my friend Doderovic. Neither was he arrested, nor do I have any information as to whether someone was responding or not, but that's what you're going to answer me. But I was amazed when I saw what the president of the Football Union wrote, he made a statement and said, "We will root out nationalism." This isn't nationalism, these texts. This is chauvinism. You know, teach them what nationalism is, what chauvinism is, so they know they don't beat nonsense. I'm a nationalist, I have beautiful feelings for my people and other peoples, but these parolees are not beautiful feelings, they're rather racist, and I'd say this is a classic example of chauvinism. I guess something's done. If something's done, it's good. If nothing's done, it's good again. It seems strange to you. Why is he okay again? Because it shows that the law is for the sake of order. Markovic was chasing 280 to achieve a record, to be more than Djindjic's government managed to pass the law, etc. I also called about other things I think you should give us an explanation. I think this crime, despite being given such an omnibus, because of the degree of social danger, because of the way it's done, it couldn't be necessary, it would just have to be a direct imagination. So, the awareness of the work, the desire to work, the desire to perform, and the consequences that could result in the execution of the work. You've just thrown it out of the original formulation of this article, so it's supposed to make it easier for the courts to do something, and the courts haven't done anything, they haven't conducted any proceedings. You're at the beginning of this debate, I think a week ago, you gave some statistics on the number of infringements initiated, etc. However, from the point of view of the extreme effect that the Law should, yes, it's really marginal, it's a small result, which means that the wrong path you're going. Not you, Lutra, the first one to go, Mihajlovic. Chad talked him into it, but now Chad saw that his discussion wasn't worth it, so he ran away. Wrong law. I'm absolutely sure when football stadiums, halls, etc. are privatized, there will be no riots. It is the cornerstone of today's debate – who will buy sports clubs, who will own a sports club. You also saw the minister, and Mr Batic also said this morning that there was the biggest crime in sports. That's what you said, Mr. Batic. So we all know what's causing it, and we all pretend we're blind to the eyes. That's not working. If you're offering us a law like this, then this is a disgrace, because you're not fighting crime at the club, you're fighting some cups, some poor fans, those that for five euros, for two glasses of beer or I don't know what, someone abuses. It's such a marginal number of people that you make the entire machine, cops like Martians provide stadiums. You know what, when I see some football games coming up, it goes through my brain first so that maybe Tadic doesn't go. He was life-threatening by that Irish setter when the dog attacked him. As soon as I see the police in those uniforms, Tadic walks. Why is that? You know who's in charge of what alliance, how many of his players are there. We get nervous that the team doesn't play well, how they put it into the team, and he doesn't even know how to kick the ball. Because he's a player from some football union official. That clerk is his manager, he cares about registering 16 times that he played for the team and it's a better price for selling it to someone. (President: Mr. Krassic, time. Mr. Albianic, just hang on a little bit, this is the topic you're talking about. I'm not talking about cockroaches. I'm talking about the subject. The next stage you're dragging us into is that half of the teams will be owned by the police, half of them owned by the military, and we'll have "Steau" and we'll have CSK, we'll have "Steau" and we'll have "Dinamo," and that'll certainly be under control. You know, innovate a little from 1945. It was Franjo Tudjman back then, and this is where Tempo was. Move a little bit, see what the reason is. I still think that the reason for all of this unrest is that which interested group, which manages part of the State Security, assesses what needs to be done. If Tadic did something stupid, they'll fight right away at the football field. Why? Then when the media go there – Pera hit Djoka, Mika hit Laza, it's inappropriate, and when they catch these NGOs, which we have to do, then we're just talking about a football game where there were 500 people. We have 500 men at football games. We don't have 100,000 people at the game, so some big riots. You've seen now, tennis players play well, they've filled the hall for three days, they've been looking forward to it, everything's been fine, they've been picking up passwords, they've been cheering for Serbia. Second, Mr. Jocic, under this law, I can go to jail right now. He calls me on the phone from the Fubola Union and says, "Come and vote for the Eagles," and I go to vote for the Eagles with the flag of the SRS on which the Eagles are on, and you arrest me. Do you see how pointless the law is? Well done to the parties, some have a point, but the point and the Eagles have nothing to do with it. The yellow dot, well, it is. That systematic handicap of theirs I can't solve. (President: Mr. Krasic, you are violating the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Jocic, we need answers to these questions to know why you are amending this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6504	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Defence and Security. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Minister accepts the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The law on preventing misbehaving at sports events, and before I comment on my amendment, I must point out: we do not question the good intentions of Minister, Mr Jocic, and his associates when they wanted to propose this law to prevent, what certainly the SRS does not want, violence and riots at any sports event. We just want to, this is what Mr. Duvnjak said, that from the early years of birth, through elementary school, through high school, and even in college, we define our children for sports activities, so that we have a healthy and capable nation. Surely some athletes in our country contribute to that. Now that Novak Djokovic has such brilliant results, it's much younger, and even middle-aged people who want to play that sport a little bit, if nothing, and it recreationally. This ministry, or whoever proposed this law, did not want to deal with the cause at all, but set out to see what the consequences were. The minister said, during the debate on the principle of this law, "we conducted an analysis in 2003 and then we came to the conclusion that we have problems at sports events". There was no need to run any analysis. It's something that's obvious from day to day. The analysis, which Mr Krasic had just finished his speech on, was to be carried out – what about the biggest mobsters in the managements, sports clubs managements, sports alliances. Someone said that, and you could see for yourself, when it's a session of the Olympic College, most of the time it's thought that maybe it's the main board of DS or some presidency. The same goes for the Football Federation, for the basketball alliance, for the Handball Union, here's the Ski Alliance now. There's no difference. Mrs. Svetlana Kitic also spoke as a prominent athlete, to whom we certainly acknowledge, that one person should be formed and talked about what should be solved by the Sport Act. This law, according to us, is not necessary at all, but we are in order to have discipline in sports events, to enjoy there those who went to follow these manifestations and that participants can be affirmed in the best possible way. You've seen that in the local circles of the teams that perform and compete, they want to affirm their environment, and in the national team, those who represent us want us to be affirmed and popularized in the world. This has been done countless times by athletes with their activities, and then some people who have seen a good opportunity to make big money through participation in the boards of sports teams. Then there was a problem, and that's what someone should have analyzed, and in this action to prevent problems that we now have in Serbia, at games and after games, there should also be the Ministry of Sports, Ministry of Education, of course, family and parents in the first place. Then we might be able to get into a situation where we go to sports events, sports courts, watch sports competitions and admire those participants, that is. direct players on sports grounds. What is provided for in Article 9 concerning Article 22 of the existing Law, which concerns these amendments and additions? Article 22 provides that a person who has committed a certain offence may also be denied from attending sports games. The promoter wanted to specify this, so he said in a second position, that the person to whom the offence measure was imposed and the mandatory ban on going to sports games was required to apply, earlier it was the Department of Internal Affairs, and now the Department of Police. We believe that it could remain the Department of Internal Affairs, although a different organisation, or systematization, has now been carried out at the Ministry of the Interior. It won't matter, or what happens if after a year some names change again, are we going to re-establish that law here in the National Assembly because of these technical changes and details? This provision, and according to the current Law, I will illustrate it illustratingly, can refer to one person who is up to 30, 40 kilometers from where a certain event is held. For example, there are villages that belong to the jealous community, where I come from, which are 40 kilometers away from the municipality headquarters and the person who has been told the extent of the ban on attending sports events, according to this provision, has to come, even though that day would not come to follow the sports game, to report to the police department that he is there and to stay with them until the game is over, and then to go the way he wants to go. The safeguard measure is now projected to last and can last from 6 months to 2 years, and earlier it lasted from 3 months to a year. We think that this period from 3 months to one year is quite enough if this regulation remains valid. But the whole law is completely pointless, unnecessary. We had far more important jobs in this period to deal with the MPs, the Assembly, to pass a number of laws. When we point to some laws that are inapplicable, that they are impractical, that they should not exist, then those who should support the government and their proposals have no comment on it at all. I remember earlier, let's say, the President of the Supreme Court, when SRS MPs comment on some bill proposals and say they are not applicable, that they will be difficult to implement in practice, she has no comment although she was present in this room. When the laws are passed, they are said – we do not have enough resources, the laws cannot be applied. The current justice minister says -- this government will try to apply those laws that can be applied. I don't think this means anything, just that the Home Office was supposed to propose changes in the existing law, which was passed in 2003, in the work that applied to them, that people who were paid to do certain jobs were doing their job properly, and that other ministries that I had just stated and said that they were on time to start these jobs. I think that information means to a good extent also contributes to these riots at sports games, or events, both before and after. It is certain that there are good and human gestures in sports events, which should also be written about, so that we can create a little competitive spirit in what is beautiful, which makes Serbs recognizable and what makes us beautiful as a people. Maybe a lot of bad guys would change their behavior and have a different situation at sports events and events. You have seen that the SRS did not have an amendment to Article 1 of this Act, for reasons, which is increasing the time interval compared to what is considered to be the time of the high-risk game, so it has increased from 90 to 120 minutes and remains 90 minutes after the game is over. It's something that's acceptable to us, too. Everything else, the increase, the tightening of criminal policy, is very, very unacceptable and in the extreme line, athletes, as well as sports workers, stress that this law will not be positively reflected in sports competitions at all. In this way, we risk that sports stadiums and other sports events remain empty, with very few viewers. If we have such a situation, the will to participate in those youth sports will be reduced, and this could be very dangerous and risky. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6506	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has spoken again about this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Jocic, I don't know how you came up with the idea that this law, which was left to you by Dusan Mihajlović, in such a way, with such dragonous rigorous measures, unnecessarily 'unadjust', does not make you remove all this that cannot stand in the law, which is already regulated by the Law of Infractions, the Criminal Code, the Law of Public Order and Peace. I believe that after that, Mr Krasic has already applied for the Rules of Procedure, is that right, Mr Krasic, to enter as a top legal expert, says our President Seselj, who took him as chief legal adviser, who is no better than he is, to explain from a legal point of view, what he did, too, and Mr Peric, as possible. Here, and I'll point that out again. It is truly amazing, in connection with this 2nd attitude, although Mr. Peric has asked for the entire article to be deleted 22, because it does not belong in this law, as some other members do not belong in the Law, from your area, so it does, or from another. Explain to me, please, since this is the Law of Infractions, it is a collection of all these laws, and that part has not changed, although this is here which I have since 1995, I am absolutely convinced that it is not, and you know very well that there is a kind of punishment, that there is a way in which punishment is prescribed, legality in the sentence, imprisonment and fines. If you have written well here and colleague Sreto Peric has just explained this to you, that, under the terms of this law, you can place a protective measure of the ban on attending certain sports events, under the terms of this law, where did you find a basis for such a thing? Who you are and how you can punish a person who's already been punished under the Law of Infractions, whether he's got a fine or now you're increasing the range of prison sentences, he's got, instead, the last position, from six months to two years, and you've listed all the violations. As possible, Mr. Jocic, which is kind of a dictatorship, I don't know what to really call it, and how it can be physically performed even for a person who has a punishment for violations, and on that day he doesn't come to the game, as Mr. Peric spoke of. He's already got a sentence, a felony, for some act that was listed here, and it did, and it happened, let's say yesterday. She played the game yesterday and he was punished and he has to pay a fine, and it's known he's going to jail, that he's serving it within the time limit. Now next week, there's a game going on again, and you're prejudged and you're saying that that person must, if he's in that town, report to the nearest police station, or the area police department in the area where the offender found himself and that he's staying in their rooms until the sports event is over. Where did you get the basis for doing something like that in the first place? You also don't have any basis, under this law you didn't even explicitly state, and that's what the police do, to hold on to visiting fans, it doesn't matter if they're from domestic clubs or abroad, in some kind of ghetto. And then you keep them around the stadium, surround them with the gendarmes, and release them to the minors in a minute before the game begins. Who are you to tell someone who comes, I don't know, a few hundred miles or a few thousand miles, determine and say, just at that moment, you're potential rioters, can you get in? Where did you get something like that? You know, we've been discussing and that's why I'm talking again about all the failures so far to the police's organs in the context of seeing all these riots that were and the wrongdoers individually. Of course, we're about to get branded and get punished, but, come on, let's get out of what the police authorities did. Am I supposed to remind you of the fact, we were just talking today about the Zrinski game - "Partizan", and what about the games that were played by Kragujeva's "Work" and Belgrade's "Rad" in Novi Pazar and how they barely got their head out alive afterwards. We didn't mention that today. Or, the Serbs who celebrated the success of our team, where is our report? Or a little before that officer who had ordered it, and then he answered, and I don't know which of your associates, and he said, "What those young men and girls were falling on their heads, and what others came to their aid, it doesn't matter," he was transferred to Lazarech. This is the man who's trespassing you're forcing by law to report to the police station, the nearest area unit, which is really unsustainable, you just don't have any basis for this, in the Law of Infraction, to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6508	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6509	Mr. Dulic, Article 136. Mr. Jocic, there's something really wrong here. What's this about? Infringements are regulated by Article 21, but that concerns legal entities and entrepreneurs. Article 22 regulates protective measures, and this measure is called –the ban on attending certain sports events. It starts with words – with the punishment for the violation of a physical person you can impose a protective measure of banning the presence of certain sports events. However, the previous article 21 does not have a physical face. The natural person appears only in Article 23, but it has completely lost its meaning, given that points 1, 2, 3 and 6 have been expelled. Now, this protective measure, called the ban on attending certain sports events, could be said with an offence and he, for example, reads – if during the course of the sport event, as well as shortly before or after the sports event, has entered the official premises or the official passage of the sports facility. Someone unauthorizedly entered the official premises, will receive a fine and receive a protective measure. Mr. Minister, doesn't that seem a little funny to you? Or the next case – during the event, it enters into a sports facility or uses alcohol or intoxicating agents. Well, if he was passing alcohol under this law, you're punishing him, if he was bringing in in intoxicating drugs, you're sending him to a hospital or jail, if after two years you're forcing him to report to the police and that 90 minutes while the game is going on, the way things are, he's hardly being drugged there. Further – do not act on official staff's orders. I really don't get it. Basically, this protective measure cannot exist. Why? Because it's hard that it can be implemented, because there's no answer to the elemental questions: which place, which game, who's the guest. Here, viewers, listen to what they wrote – the ban on attending certain sports events consists of the obligation of the offender. He came drunk at the game – it's the perpetrator of the crime, to report directly to the police directly before the start of certain sports events. So two minutes before the start of the game he came, a good day cop, I had that solution, I came to report to the police station in the area where the perpetrator of the offense found himself. So, if he's from Belgrade, he's committed a violation in Belgrade, he's reporting when he's at his cousin's in White Palance, at the time of the Belgrade match. (President: Time. Calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6510	Mr. Krassic, I don't want to calm down. You know you have three minutes, of course, I won't interrupt until you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6511	I didn't finish the sentence, there's no need to be nervous, because the subject is very serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6512	I'm sure you'll get back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6513	I have no intention of answering, but when you interrupt me, you're making me answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6514	Here, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6515	I'm telling you seriously, that nothing is known, someone has been punished by this measure in Belgrade, was given this protective measure, went to a cousin in White Palanco, the Star game, the 'Partizan', he's in White Palanca, a knock-knock to the police, good day, I came to protect myself. He looks at him, baptizes himself, says what you're doing here, man. He says I have a solution as long as it's a game I have to be at the police station. If you told him not to be at the football stadium, did you forbid him to watch the TV game or do you have a TV at the police station so he can watch the game? To legitimize this power to an idiot in Europe, you are capable of writing anything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6516	Thank you very much, Mr. Krassic. National MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6517	Mr. Dulic, Member of the 27th and 31st. Rules of Procedure. Let me quote the Secretary of Defense's statement from "Blica" from September 22nd. "A huge number of people gathered in Kursumlia dissatisfied with the fact that someone abused the position and got double diaries, and they did not. The point is that the people who charged it sue to get their money back to the state. Obviously, there is a political abuse of the rally, as it is no accident that General Delic hosted a delegation of those reserves in the Serbian Parliament. There is no doubt that in this story, the SRS will have a crucial impact, but it does not want to be exposed, because it is they who led the country at the time. "A trained Minister of Defence's job told a notorious lie, Mr. Dulic, because you hosted the delegation, and as vice-president of the Assembly, I helped you, because it was all done in your cabinet and should be known by the citizens of Serbia. Of course, I'm personally connected to that 354 brigade, because it's the only problem, because the 354th squad was engaged in my zone during the war, I commanded it, although I had nothing to do with those unpaid diaries. The defence minister, who has the Military Security Agency and the Intelligence Service, still had to know, and it was the day after that, when we received those reserves together, just 60km from Kursumlia. It was more important for him to receive American cowboys and shame from our 63rd paratrooper battalion, because the Ohio reservers can't be a pandan for the overrun by the 63rd paratroopers, or now the 63rd Battalion. He could've gone to Kurzumlia where two weeks of strike people. Certainly, both the SRS and every citizen of Serbia are behind them, because it is obvious that they are abuses, when it comes to the reserve strike, which is being talked about here. The only Ministry of Defense has the data, they exist in their archives, at their financial center, lists with the signatures of each reserver, and it is precisely the irresponsibility of a minister who allows people to endanger their health, instead of taking lists, to go directly down to the field and tell each individual how much money he received, and how much he needed to receive. I expect, Mr. Dulic, that you will respond and that the Secretary of Defense, who is from your party, will inform you after a few days that you have received that delegation and that I have only helped you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6518	Thank you very much. The truth is, it is true that the delegation that came from Kursumlia was accepted in my cabinet, the fact is that General Delic also attended the meeting, the fact that we agreed that this meeting was not politicized in any way, and the fact that afterwards I called on Minister Sutanovac and that we received a promise that was realised the next day, which is that the government will seriously consider this problem and will form a team of people who will go down to Kursumli and talk to them. That's all the facts and I point to the public. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 136. So, in Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set out the points, namely, what all one law must contain, therefore, to be in conformity with the Constitution, so that it can be legally possible to survive. It's not written that a member of the law can be stupid. Indeed, a member of the law can be stupid and pointless. Mr. Jocic, I must remind you, again, that you have just taken over this law from such a police minister, former Dusan Mihajlovic, and you should probably have sat down and looked at it, to think about it. You were then the opposition party when Dusan Mihajlovic wrote this law, it was the one who did not return the jeep to us, so you did not return it to us, which is the property of the SRS and which we are looking for based on the Supreme Court's judicial decision, which we have repeatedly spoken about and started every session of the board. But since Article 136 doesn't stand, Mr Jocic, that a member of the law can't be stupid, then you must admit that this is Dusan Mihajlović's stupid writing and accept the amendment of counterpart Sreta Periæ to delete Article 22, because this is more than funny. You are for some non-existent, imaginary particular sporting event, as counterpart Krasic says, you do not know where, when, or when, or what, to commit a violation, a natural person, who really does not exist in the previous article 21, said that he cannot do so, and that he has to report to the police station, in the field unit of the MUP and keep him there until the game is over. The game is played in Kragujevac or played in Novi Sad and lasts until two o'clock in the afternoon or four, anyway, and they keep it. The game ended, he sat in the car faster, on the bus, it doesn't matter how he goes to Belgrade at six o'clock and repeats the same offense because it's somewhere else now. He changed the club in one day. He cheered for "Vojvodina", now headed to Belgrade, cheers for "Partizan" or "Red Star", and then after evening he has a basketball game playing in Nis and goes down to Nis, near Bosko Ristic, and watches the basketball game. So it's amazing that this kind of nonsense, I really don't have any other expression but stupid, it can exist in the law. It's impossible to apply this at all, and then why do you need it? You're just embarrassing yourself. Have you decided to amend the law as an improvement? You've seen that these are the measures against which we, although we want everything to be all right, that there are no incidents, we stand for fair sports cheerleading and well-organized sports manifestations, but this is just ridiculous. And this, some, potential perpetrator of this offense, or part of it, will laugh at you, because he can practically do whatever he wants at this event, go to another city, change a few games during the day and nobody else. Then how are you going to punish him? Then Mr. Peric suggested that the entire member of the law be deleted, nothing will be missed, and you will not be left with something like this, which is really pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6520	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, General Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6521	Mr. Dulic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is gone, but Mr. Todorovic remains there. He's a member of 226. I am not a lawyer, but as a MP, I am interested in whether this law is going to meet this positive European practice? If the codification of the law has been carried out, how is it possible, even though it is known that everything related to some guilt is in the Criminal Law, that in this law that speaks of riots at sports events, we have a situation that provides for these criminal measures that are even more severe than the basic law? Is it a good practice and is it in line with Europe's recommendations that a law, which is secondary to guilt, and I think it's absurd and that it's against legal logic, has been implemented through several members here where it's being talked about exactly these criminal measures? That's all I care about, that answer. Is this law going to meet European recommendations and European practice, where from all the laws what is about guilt should still be in one place, and we have a reverse situation that in a secondary law we have something that is much more drastically solved than in basic law. I think, Mr. Todorovic, you understood me. Well, you're a lawyer, I'm not, so I'm interested in the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6522	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6523	Mr. Dulic, I meant Article 136, but since there are no proposing representatives, then it would be 225, 226, although it would be good if we got it before the vote, because if we get it after the vote, then it would be like I didn't even talk, like I didn't ask a question or ask for an explanation. We all have to imagine the fact that someone is pushing this law on us, because that law practically started in 2003, right after Zoran Djindjic was killed. We need to be aware of the fact that the privatisation of clubs isn't over, that they're wandering around privatizing sports facilities, that the big fish are in play, that everything and everything they're going to play. We need to understand that in that top-notch sport, it's called a top-notch mistake, but come on, which is calling the attention of the biggest number of fans, we have criminals running some teams, some clubs. Vesic's running something, come on, please. Dinkic leads, Danko, what's-his-name, from the Institute, I guess this Kajakic, Vlahovic "Star" leads me not to talk. Of course, politicians got into it, there and launder money, because why would they be there. They like to take pictures or I don't know what. They're there, they're looking for a starting position because they're gonna start privatizing, and then, if they're close, they can do something, and they're just doing money and doing these jobs. Then we have a paradoxical situation that, let's say, Danilovic did something as a team official, probably because he wasn't satisfied with the trial, whether he got a sentence, whether or not he got a sentence – it doesn't matter, in fact, it's possible to give him this protection measure, so that a man who deals in sports in some way, two years when his team is at the police station. In theory, such a situation is possible. Then we have one more really stupid thing, this is a crime in Article 20. There is no such crime on the globe. There is no such way of formulating a crime anywhere. Everything's been given an omnibus. For what? No one knows. But what I'm absolutely sure of, this law, and when it changes, it won't apply. He just needs to be used as a means of intimidation, because someone smart there designed, if we give rigorous penalties, it'll be a measure of some prevention that those who go there don't make some incidents etc. But basically what you call riots at sports games, in sports facilities, that's, how do I say, that's the top, that's something, a tiny particle of something big that smells, which is sick, and it's got the whole sport... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and I think that if you really are a supporter of some order at these matches, then you don't have to vote for this law, but you should intervene with yours to pass a law on physical culture, so that our children are both right and healthy, and you should influence this area of sport to be settled. When this area of sport is settled, then this kind of law on the creation of police and military sports teams, we won't need it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6524	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6525	Before I move on to the defense of the amendment, just a few words: today there was a public gathering of certain MPs, namely, it was about a cab driver strike in front of the City Assembly and I can tell you that they mention you. Some only mention you, bearers of city authority, some mention both mother and family, and so on. National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted an amendment to Article 10. The draft law relating to Article 23 of the Basic Law and requires that Article 23 be deleted. The Serbian Government's reply reads: "The government does not accept the amendment because practice has indicated that it should remain in the existing solution set out in Article 23. The law, along with the appropriate amendment', etc. I'm a member of 23. The law in this proposal was drastically cut, so it says: "A prison sentence of 60 days or a fine of 30,000 to 50,000 dinars will punish a natural person if: 1) damages the sports object on which a sporting event takes place" etc., they deleted it. When these amendments to the Law are adopted, a person can damage a sports object because there are no points in this article by which he will be punished. He goes on to say, '2) throws any object on a sports field or interferes with the event of a sports event', etc. or, '3) unauthorized entry into the sports field,' and that's erased. It can happen that the game starts, and then the fans come down to hug their pets down on the sports field, there's no point of the law, because Article 23 deletes it. There's one thing that's been added and it's not illogical, so I have to read it. Article 23 is added to point 7a and says that it will be fined 60 days in prison and 30 to 50 thousand in one who 'consumes alcoholic beverages against ban (Article 18 of this Law)'. Now let's take a look at article 18. He says, "It is forbidden to sell and consume alcoholic beverages in a sports facility and within 1 km of it in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, and in other places up to 300 m, during a sports event and three hours before and after its completion. ''At 301m from the sports field in smaller places, he can drink as much as he wants and get drunk on sports grounds, or a mile away, for Belgrade is not much of a mile away when it goes to large terrains, mostly fans go on foot, megamarkets Miškovici, 'Maxi,' because within a mile and a first meter can be drunk to the will and does not apply that three hours before and three hours later. How will you deal with the one who got drunk at 301 feet, how will you punish him? Someone will have to measure, because it's written - 300 meters. You want to build an agency to measure the length of sports facilities, since you've created agencies for everything and everything and set up anyone who's in your party. The agency, then the entire pyramid, then the assistant head for the agencies, then the meter holder – 300 meters and km, etc. Therefore, this law is inadmissible, so these amendments and additions of the Law do not correct anything and will not serve anything. Adopt amendments to the SRS, at least wash your political honor. Since I have plenty of time, I have one more question to continue, given that the chairman interrupted me in asking MPs' questions about NIS. How many directors in NIS have a manager's contract and why? Another question I've asked in my own time is about the Moil Koal firm. I got the answer – you know, Mr. Markovic, it's not "Moil Coil", we don't know that such a company exists, but if you're thinking about the company "Moil Koal", then she's in Cyprus, the director of some Greek, etc. My question wasn't like that. I asked who owns the company and I expected to be told – the owner is Novakovic, the expert that you brought after the "bulldozer of revolution" in torn shoes, and now full as a boat. In order to support what they did not answer, in 2006 alone NIS imported 1,819,058 tonnes of oil through the company Moil Koal, 1,734,671 tonnes and one 84-ton tanker via Glenor. For January and February 2007, 380,000 tonnes were imported, 325,000 tonnes of the company Moil Koal. I don't care if it's called "Moil Koal" or "Moil Coil" and where it's based, in Cyprus, and who's her director, who's the CEO, I'm curious about who owns it. Is it true that the owners of the majority share of capital at Moil Koal and is it possible that NIS can buy oil through no company, the only ino-suppliers must be Moil Koal and Glenor; a martyr flew in when they needed oil, and this one was probably in a situation that he couldn't get or was already delivering. Through this company, the Syrian oil, which has cost us so much, will only cost, as it has passed through that Yugoslav former JANAF pipeline and dirty the pipeline. We received a warning, if the damage occurs to users across Europe, that the NIS will suffer damage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the NIS, I'm familiar enough, I just don't know if Hamovic or Lazarevic, who's going to buy NIS after that for small money. Besides, you're used to it. So you sold sugars to Miki Kostic for three euros back then, it was your graduation work to move on to privatisation. Of course it's gonna be wrapped up, so there's gonna be some executive directors showing up again to pick up that shovel, eventually, when there's an auction. The main owners are your tycoons, or you are through them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6526	Thank you. The amendment has been reported by MP Lidija Vukicevic, please. Afterwards, Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6527	I just wanted to briefly comment on this law on preventing violence and misbehaving. It seems to me, Mr. Todorovic, and I think the police minister, Jocic, is also aware that this law is impossible to apply to all fans, because they are also members of the PTJ, both the C.I.A. and the Gandarmeria very well-known protected fans at our games. Protected fans are a group of people whose Gandarmeria, the special forces of PTJ and the CJ can't do anything, who are free to stand up to the Gandarmeria, who are free to hit the police that secures the game, and on one side we'll have some fan who won't be friendly with the team of Croatia who at that time plays, or Slovenian, or someone else, might say some ugly word, as it goes in the spirit of fans, he'll probably get, like, 12 times more rigorous punishment than someone who can do anything, who can hit a cop, distract him in his work, he's simply protected and he can't do anything. There are things about these people and the police are well-known, so I just want to simply, when we're talking about this law, about preventing violence and misbehaving, that this law is not applied selectively, but if it's meant to be applied in the way that you've determined to apply it to everyone, it's the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6528	Thank you, the word has been made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6529	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226. I ask you, Mr. President, if you have invited representatives of the Montenegrin opposition to the Serbian Parliament building, they hold some kind of rally here, they are in charge, I don't know if it's about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship or whether it's a continuation of the story of a great Serbia or a continuation of the competition in patriotism or false patriotism or cryptopathism, because I see that it will be the secret citizens of Serbia. It's a script for the second version of "Balkan spy" and it's Ilija Cvorovic, but as far as I'm aware, Mr. President, there's a party press conference under the roof of the Assembly by a Serbian party, I don't know what it's called, Mr. Andrija Mandic's Serbian People's Party. I don't mind, but do you know anything about it and whether it's in some parliamentary practice that two parties under the roof of the National Assembly hold some marketing press conference. Maybe they're collecting contributions to the Philaret Church or whatever it's called. I'm just asking you for a notice, I don't even care, and I don't mind, and think about whether a party from Serbia could go to a Montenegrin or any other parliament of some serious state and hold a press conference there with a party in the parliament building. You owe the answer, Mr. President, and the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, because we're sick of that kind of marketing. He also brought us here where Serbia is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6530	Thank you very much. All parliamentary groups have the right to hold a press conference and should inform the Secretary of the Service. I assume the MP group holding the press conference has both informed the secretary and the information service. As for inviting guests, every MP has the right to invite someone to visit. I'm not informed that someone is coming to the guests today, but I don't think I should be informed because every MP has meetings every day, which with citizens, which with the presidents of different political groups, and I just can't get involved. Here, you're not happy with the answer. You can't be unhappy with the answer. Then you can only ask to vote, but I suppose you won't, but you'll have to do it again, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6531	Mr. President, you've explained to me something that everyone knows, that any MP group can hold a press conference and that's not controversial. Each MP can have guests and it is not disputed, but you have not answered the basic question – whether one political party that has its own parliamentary group or not, but has a part of the MPs within the Joint Parliamentary Group, however, does not matter, can call the guests the other political side and from another country and then hold a joint press conference and it is not the first or second answer. It's something completely third. It has implications for Serbia's relations with Montenegro or tomorrow with a third country. You provide a new practice. No MP group can call party members from another country and then, together here, under the roof of the National Assembly, hold a press conference. Tell me where it says it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-24-0.u6532	Thank you very much. I conclude the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has carried out a search on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3), Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint 24 September 2007, at 15.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all points of the session's session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you very much. [[After break – 15,20]] Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on the State of the Republic of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. For 178, against five, 17 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I remind you that during the review of the Bill's proposal, it was found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal had become the amendment of the People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, which was added after Article 7, a new Article 7a, the amendment to Article 14 and the amendment to which a new Article 16a was added after Article 16. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 130, there was no vote of 8 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 16, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 129, seven of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivica Dacic to Article 16(2). The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 128, seven of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dr Vladan Batic submitted to Article 16 of the Second Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 5, against 128, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Dejan Mirovic to Article 16th. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 128, 9 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 197, v. 5, not one of 203 MPs voted. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amending Agreement and Accession of the Agreement on Free Trade in CENTRAL EUROPE - CEFTA 2006 As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly shall decide on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006, in principle. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by MP Suzanne Grubjesic, the government is proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 135, it did not vote 5 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006, in general. Three out of 140 MPs voted for 137. The National Assembly adopted the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON DUVAN After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law in principle. For 128, against 18, three of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 128, 12 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 64 against 127, not 13 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 64, against 125, did not vote 15, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 66, against 126, did not vote 12, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 63, against 128, did not vote 13, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Slavko Jerkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 64, against 128, did not vote 11 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Jadranko Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 65, against 127, did not vote 11 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 63, against 128, did not vote 13, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sasa Valjarevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 62, against 128, did not vote 13, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 63, against 128, did not vote 12, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 61, against 129, did not vote 13, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 126, 12 out of 202 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 128, 10 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 128, it did not vote 13, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 128, the vote was not 11 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 128, the vote was not 11 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Radisa Ilic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 129, 10 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 129, 9 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Antic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 8a be added after Article 8. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 129, there was no 11 vote, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 128, 12 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, against six, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. For 128, against 20, three of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill on amendments to the tobacco law. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CLIME AMENDMENT LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in principle. For 151, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in general. For 151, of the 151 people's MP. The National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law attesting Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF TRADE IMPLEMENTATION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a bill on travel documents, in principle. For 148, two out of 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 26, which was jointly submitted by MPs: Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 127, 22 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 194, against one, they did not vote four out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 129, 10 out of 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 130, 17 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, on Article 25 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Defence and Security. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 70 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 129, 19 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians: Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 63, out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 129, 19 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 34th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 126, there were 14 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 35th Amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 129, 17 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 128, 15 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 49th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 129, 18 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 128, 18 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 128, he did not vote 21 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 129, 17 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 128, 20 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on travel documents in general. For 148, of the 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill on travel documents. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in Sports Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, in principle. For 134, 12 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision by amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 131, 16 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 129, 18 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3(2) of the amendment, the Committee on Defence and Security submitted. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment in the course of a particular search, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against four, did not vote 68 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 130, 17 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jevremovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 128, 18 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 129, 20 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 128, 19 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Defence and Security. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment in the course of a particular search, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 132 against two, 64 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 129, 16 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 128, 17 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, in general. For 134, there were 14 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – The election of the president, vice president and members of the National Audit Institution Council, with the list submitted by the Financial Committee After the National Assembly has conducted a single search, and before we move to the vote, I remind you of the provisions of the Law on the State Auditing Institution. In accordance with Article 13(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law, the Council has five members: the President, the Vice-President and three members; Article 16 paragraphs 2 and 3. The law, at least two members of the Council, must be graduated economists with an appropriate audit or accounting calling, and at least one of the members of the Council shall be a graduate lawyer with a legal examination; Article 19(1). The law, the president, vice-presidents and members of the Council elect and resolves the Assembly by a majority of the votes of all MPs, on the proposal of the Parliament's competent working body, which determines the list of candidates and delivers it to the Assembly. I am voting on the proposal to elect Radoslav Sretenovic, a graduate economist for the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. For 132 MPs, against 14, one of 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Radoslav Sretenovic, a graduate economist, as president of the Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ljubica Nedeljkovic, a graduate economist for the Vice-President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. For 131 against 14, there were two out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljubica Nedeljkovic, a graduate economist, as vice president of the Council. I am putting the motion to elect Zoran Tamas, a graduate economist as a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. For 132, versus 14, one of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Tamash, a graduate economist, as a member of the Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr Ljiljana Dmitrić-Saponja, a graduate economist for the Council of the State Auditing Institution. For 132, against 15, of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr Ljiljana Dmitrić-Saponja, a graduate economist, as a member of the Council. I am voting on a proposal to elect Natalija Ćatovic, a graduate lawyer as a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. For 128, against 18, one of 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Natalia Ćatovic, a graduate lawyer, as a member of the Council. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution in the election. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION TO EXCUSE THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL PARTIES OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a single review of the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. For 198, he did not vote one of the 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the selection of board members by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Two out of the 199 MPs voted for 197. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 12 September 2007 at 12.40 hours, pointed to a violation of article 194. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 125, it did not vote 12 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 12 September 2007, at 12.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 8 out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., there's a new session.
